fiEOHSTERED AS A NEWSPAPER.
&>ff) jotTfCK^ ^di^KCs<.
dltaf xoittiffi foiflj Spiritualism m <&xmt §ntaitt(
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : xr, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE : 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI : Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON":
No. xoio, Seventh-street.
No. 316. (Vol. XIII.—No. 11.) LONDON: FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Contents.
Suggestions for the Future       ... ...121
The Cure of Diseases near Sacred Tombs:—Extract
from a Letter Written by a Physician at Rome to his
Sister, a Carmelite Nun, at Cavaillon, dated May 1,
1783—Extract from a Letter from an English Gentle¬
man at Rome, dated June 11, 1783—Extract from a
Letter from the Abb£ de Limel, dated Rome, July 16,
1783—A Collection of Divers Miraculous Cures, ob¬
tained by the Intercession of the Venerable Servant of
God, Benedict Joseph Labre, extracted from the Regis¬
ter Preserved in the Church of S. Mary Di Monti,
which in the Whole amount to the Number of One
Hundred and Thirty-six, which have been Certified
till this Day, July 6, 1783, without Reckoning Many
Others, which have not yet been entered into the
Registers, on account of their not having been yet
Sufficiently Attested—Account of a Miracle wrought
through the Intercession of the Servant of God, Bene¬
dict Joseph Labre, on a Nun of the Convent of Bolene,
in the Diocess of St. Paul Trois Chftteaux, sent by
M. Eymard, Archdeacon of the said Diocess, dated
July 4, 1783  ... .... .. ...      121
” Gone Home—Song of the North Wind   127
The Relation of Spiritualism] to Christianity. By J. A.
Campbell      ... 128
Poetry:—The Wind’s Voice 129
Correspondence!—Spirit Identity—The Interlinked Rings
—Healing Mediumship;.. ...    ...   129
Spiritualism in Paris       130
Remarkable Psychological Experience of a Lawyer 131
The Character of the Exhibitor of “Everettism”  131
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—Meet¬
ing of the Council      132
The Rev. Dr. Lee on Spiritualism  132
Paragraphs:—Mr. Colville’s Trance Lecture To-morrow,
121; Home Circles, 121; To Readers of The Spirit¬
ualist ...    ... 132
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHBD IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, ana is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess oi
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Pale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
.Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church-(Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre AksaKof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at, Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
-Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the ‘‘ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. 0. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. Wilham Oxley; Miss Kisling-
hury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lod.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs. Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago : Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street.. San Francisco: 319,
Kcarney-street/ Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CALENDAR FOR SEPTEMBER.
Tuesday, Srd.—Neance.Committee, at 5.30 p.m. .
Friday, 6th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 10th.—Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
*” “ Council Meeting-, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, IWi.—Experimental Research Committee.
Saturday, lith.—Farewell Address by Mr. J. W. Colville,
at 3.30 p m.
Friday, 20th.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
“ “ Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
pjn.
Wednesday, 25th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
“ “ Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 21th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
“• “ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughboeough-eoad-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to—  H. E. FRANCES, HON- Sec.
R. and MISS DIETZ having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (“ One of
the most successful series ever known in London”), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—the
West of England, during the first week in October; Scotland,
during November; the Midland Counties, early in December.
Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route. For par¬
ticulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, London,
S.W. Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture on
“ American Humour,” illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors. 
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. II. July. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS :—
I.—The Two Schools of Thought. By St. George Stock.
II.—James Hinton. By William White.
III. —Clairvoyance and Psychography. By Epes Sargent.
IV. —The Abate of San Gandolfo. By J. O. Earle.
V.—Remarkable Psychological Experiences. By A. E.
Newton. ■
VI.—Psychology of the Bible. By J. W. Farquhar.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. II.:—Issoudun. By Rev. H.
N. Grimley.
VIII.—Thirtieth Anniversary of Modem Spiritualism. By
Thomas Shorter.
Leaves from My Life—-An Innocent Sinner—Buddhism—
Miss Martineau Defended—More Glimpses of the World
Unseen — Concerning Everlasting Punishment — Possible
Planetary Influences—An Intelligent Tree—Psychography—
Tire Truthseeker — Views of our Heavenly Home —The
Master’s Field—Marguerite Marie Alacoque.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyeho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. ld.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epe's Sar&ent. This book, by an author
of oonsiderableability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
ewspaper Branch Office, London,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February. 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces; organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or .belief.
All particulars may be obtained on*application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street.. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s, visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
Prom the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-rOad, Derby.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing: useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER'
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forges
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash. .
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten. •
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & CO.
Show Rooms:—3, LudgateCircus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <5ec.
post free, seven stamps.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, i F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous. ■ Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
T>IRKBECK BANK. — Established 1851.—
_D 29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Ohancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or- re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
- A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex.Calder, Es<l.» 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1. Bernard-villas, Unper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambriilpre-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond Q-. M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Biixton,
S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdonsall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honvwood Mrs.. 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jenoken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Massey, C. C, BaiTister-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
■Rogers. E, Dawson, Rose-villa, Chnrch-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Tempieman.M.D., Douglas House, l.'i, Alexandra-
read. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Oumherland-place, Hyde-park, 'W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , Langley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Vrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill. 1
Binney, F A.. 24, St, Ann’s-square. Manchester
Bonwick, <T., F.R.G.S., Yale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W H„ 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
D«we, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., r.vnwood. Southern-hill, Reading.
Fernands, T. H , 7. Dherstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C-, Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Oheetham, Manchester.
Fit'/, Gerald, Mrs. D. G . 6. Akerman-road, Rrixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S E
Green, G F„ Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38. Great Russell-street.
Havle, Thos., M.D., Th" Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20. Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-'errace, Louis-street. Leeds.
Hunt. Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. Bar . Lamnort-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C-, Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road. Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-'treet. W.C.
March, R. A.. 14, Wilton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newhould, Rev. W. W.. 118, Albany-sireet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsburv, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3, BI a ndf ord-square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Stra" bridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30. Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M„ 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Clsverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M.J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh. 31, Queen Anne-et., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwqpd Grange, Leedn.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq,, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-snuare, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
$. W? Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
MiSS Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de i’Empereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Tr.evise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Mndrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinek-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Yeh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York. U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell. La Tresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq , Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague. Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Kreuz
Kirche, par Neuvied, Prusse Rhenance.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210,Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., II, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de I’Europe,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre. Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W'.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-htll,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Posth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epc'jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road. S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Unlon Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Bnda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Eapanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, "with the
 qniet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.O. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
"Works by the Countess of Caithness,
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, "W.C.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 5s. fid.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler's Vision.—V. Leve and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part IL
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV- Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Algo, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O.
T>RIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
JLf tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
Sept. 13, 1878.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from S o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE. BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. J. j. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds qf Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefield-road, Kings-
land, N. 
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
TV/TISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
IVL and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Manoell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Clairvoyante. No. 2, Vernon place, Blooms ■
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE-
ATED from Hand-Writing, Phetos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. fid. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-eourt, S.W.
C1URATIVE MESMERISM AND CLAIR-
J VOYANOK—Professor Adolphe Didier (33 years estab¬
lished) attends Patients and may be consulted at his residence
from 2 to 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
Consultations by letter. 
MESMERIC HEALER.
lyrRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes-
1VJL meric Healing Clairvoyante,^examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vemon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5.
NOTICE.—M. FOX KANE receives friends
at 114, Southampton-row, London, Mondays, Wednes¬
days, and Fridays, from 2 to 5p.m. A circle on reduced terms
on Tuesday and Thursday evenings, from 8 to 10.
mHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
L UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Is.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :-4-SmPKiN, Marshall & Co.
EAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price fid., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price fid., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vote, price 10s. fid. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
No. 316.—VotujviE Thirteen; Number Ej-eveji.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13th, 1878.
%
SUGGESTIONS FOR THE FUTURE.
A desire exists that more of a religious tone should be
given to public action in connection with Spiritualism in
London, by affording an opportunity to the more thoughtful
men connected with the movement to express their opinions
in relation to the religious aspects of the subject. Among
those who read papers at the fortnightly meetings last
winter are several to whose religious ideas the public would
like to listen, were they but invited to come forward at
Sunday evening meetings. The drifting into Sectarianism
could be avoided by varying the speakers, so that all kinds
of different views might be presented. There is no bond of
union in negation ; unlike Secularism, Spiritualism is not all
negation ; it already presents some leading principles round
which the minds of its votaries may unite. It teaches of a
life beyond the grave, ministering spirits, eternal progression
in the land of the hereafter, no everlasting perdition, that
sin punishes itself by spiritually degrading the individual,
thereby retarding his entrance into the higher states of
existence, and it warrants other broad, general doctrines.
Something should be done to promote Sunday meetings to
bring forth the ideas of our most intelligent men on the
religious aspects of Spiritualism, thereby strengthening the
bonds of union of Spiritualists.
Now that the war is over and society is waiting for a new
and perhaps a more elevated subject to talk about, the time
has come to attempt to make Spiritualism the next chief
subject of public interest. Hence, now that there is a
scarcity of news in the daily journals, and a scarcity of sub¬
jects of conversation in society, every Spiritualist should
do his part, in various ways, to bring psychology to the
front.
The usual weekly meeting of the Research Committee of the British
National Association of Spiritualists is adjourned from to-night until
the evening of Friday qext.
Mb. Colville’s Trance Lecture to-morrow.—To-morrow Mr. W.
J. Colville will deliver a trance address, at 3.30 p.m., in the rooms of
the British National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-
street, London, to be followed by questions from the listeners,
which he will answer while under influence. It will probably be his
last address in the rooms before his departure‘for the United States.
Admission free to members and friends. As a propagandist, Mr.
Colville has been doing much of late to make known the truths of
Spiritualism in provincial towns and villages, and, whether remunerated
or unremunerated, has always cheerfully done the work he found in
his path.
Home Circles.—Nature’s most useful works are quietly and
silently performed. All growth is a silent and steady effort. Spirit¬
ualism, the child of the ages, and one of Nature’s grandest revela¬
tions, is no exception. Modern Spiritualism, as it is called, came
without a herald in the lowly cottage of the Fox family—came in the
tiny raps—came in the presence of the younger members of the family,
and made itself known through them as a living, intelligent reality.
Few, if any, of the best mediums have been developed in public
circles. Most of them have been prepared for public work by sitting
in the home circle, or sitting alone and passively invoking the pre¬
sence of loving and intelligent spirit friends. After the developments
at Hydesville and Rochester, home circles were formed in many places
over the country • mediums were developed, and manifestations of
spirit return and spirit presence were given, with messages from the
inner life to encourage and instruct those inquiring after knowledge of
the life beyond. Many also sat in their own quiet rooms alone with
their friends from across the river, and received the holy annointing
apart from those who could not, or would not, receive this important
truth. Such was “ Modern Spiritualism ” in the days of the
“ Rochester Knockings,” when deceivers bad not entered its fold,
when pecuniary motives for deception had not developed, when frauds
could not find ready dupes and be richly rewarded for their villanous
practices. Through the home circles, and the genuine mediums deve¬
loped therein, Spiritualism grew to number its millions. Through
them belief gave place to knowledge—the day-star of immortality com¬
menced to shine; light had broken across the “ dark valley of the
shadow of death,” showing a narrow river bridged by angel love.—
Religio-Philosophical Journal.
THE CURE OF DISEASES NEAR SACRED TOMBS.
[Concluded from page 114.)
When St. Andronicns suffered martyrdom, the Proconsul
Maximus commanded his tongue and teeth to be pulled out
and burnt to ashes, and the ashes thrown into the wind, lest,
said he, any pitiful woman of the Christians should keep
them for a treasure.—Ruinart, p. 487.
St. Basil says that, according to the Jewish rites, all dead
bodies are an abomination ; but now, if any one dies for the
name of Christ, his relics are esteemed precious. Then, the
j touch of a dead body defiled a man ; now it almost sanctifies
j him.—St. Basil in Psal. 115, T. 1, p. 274.
St. Gregory Nyssen says that a Christian thinks himself
sanctified and blest by touching the tomb of a martyr, and
much more if he be allowed to take away any of the dust
from the sepulchre.—Orat. de S. Theodora Mart. Tom. 3, p.
579, 580.
St. Jerom, writing against Yigilantius, who pretended that
. . relics were not to be honoured, opposes against him the
j ! example of all the bishops in the world.—Lib. contra
I ( Vigilantium.
| i Again, says he, we honour the relics of the martyrs, that
| 1 we may adore him whose martyrs they are. We honour the
I | servants, that the master may be honoured, who says, he
j that receives you receives me.—Ep. 53. ad Riparium. And
| again, you write that Vigilantius vomits once more his
i poison against the relics of the martyrs, calling us dust-
| ( worshippers and idolaters, for reverencing dead men’s bones,
j j Oh unhappy man, who can never be sufficiently pitied.—Ibid.
Dr. Burnet, the Protestant Bishop of Salisbury, says: It is
I no wonder that great care was taken in the beginnings of
! Christianity to show all possible respect and tenderness even
j to the bodies of the martyrs. There is something of this
| planted so deep in human nature, that though the philosophy
I of it cannot be so well made out, yet it seems to be some-
! | what more than an universal custom. We think that all
! j | decent honours are indeed due to the bodies of the saints,
I which were once the temples of the Holy Ghost. And
I j writing concerning the acts which give an account of the
j respect paid by the Primitive Christians to the relics of St.
j Polycarp, he says : This is one of the most valuable pieces of
I true and genuine antiquity ; and it shows us very fully the
(j sense of that age, both concerning the relics and the worship
! of the Saints.—Burnet’s Expos, of the 39 Articles. Art. 22,
j p. 313—316.
And lastly, Eunapius a Pagan writer who lived in the
| fourth century, says : The Christians, gathering the heads
| and bones of such as the magistrates had executed, made
11 them their gods, prostrated before them, and thought them-
| selves purer by being defiled at their tombs.
This respect and veneration which was shown to the relics
| i of the martyrs, and which was referred to and redounded to
I the glory of God, whose martyrs they are, was approved of
j by God himself, both by miraculously revealing where the
11 relics of some of His martyrs were deposited, and by the
\ j many miracles He was pleased to work by their means.
Concerning the miracles wrought by the relics of the
(| martyrs, St. Gregory Nazianzen says : u Did you not fear
(j the martyrs and saints, John, Peter, Paul, James, Stephen,
> J Luke, Andrew, Thecla, and so many others—to whom great
! | honour and festivals are appointed, by whom devils are cast
j 11 out, and diseases cured, whose very bodies, whether touched
j or honoured, do the same as their holy souls, and a drop of
j | their blood, or any little remnant of their passion, as much
j j as their bodies.”—Orat. 3 quce est 1 cont. Julianum Tom 1,
j p. 76, Ed. Paris.
j I St. Ambrose says : You have known, nay yourselves have
II seen many dispossessed, many delivered from their infirmi-
122
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 13, 1878.
ties as soon as they touched the veil which covered the holy
bodies. The ancient miracles of Christ are renewed. You
see many cured, by the shadow as it were of the saints’
bodies. How many handkerchiefs are they touched with ?
How many veils, by touching the sacred relics, become
instruments of the greatest cures ? Every one is glad to
touch the most distant hem ; and if he does it, he will be
healed.—St. Ambrose Ep. 22.
S. Isidore, of Pelusium : If this offends you that we
honour the ashes of the martyrs’ bodies, because they loved
God and served Him constantly, ask those who have been
healed by them, and inquire into the number of distempers
from which they have been free. If you do this, you will be
so far from laughing at what we do, that you will be willing
to join with us in so innocent a practice.—Lib. 1 Ep. 55.
St. Austin, in his book of ths City of God, relates several
miracles performed at the Shrines, or by the means of the
relics of St. Stephen, viz.:—1. A blind woman recovered
her sight, by applying to her eyes some flowers, which had
touched his relics. 2. Bishop Lucillus, by carrying the
relics of St. Stephen, was cured of a fistula, with which he
had long been troubled, and was never troubled with it after
that day. 3. Eucherius, a Spanish priest, who dwelt at
Calame, was cured of the stone by part of the same relics,
which Bishop Possidius carried thither, and being after¬
wards laid out for dead in consequence of another disorder,
by the help of the said martyr, to whose shrine they carried
him, was restored to his former life and soundness. 4. A
child which had been crushed by a cart was carried by its
mother, and laid down before the shrine of St. Stephen,
where it recovered both life and full strength in an instant.
5. A devout woman at Caspaliana, being sick and past re¬
covery, sent her garment to the shrine, but before it came
back she was dead. However, her parents covered her with
it, which done, she presently revived, and was in as good
health as ever. 6. The like happened to the daughter of
one Bassus, a Syrian, who dwelt at Hippo; he covered his
dead daughter with her garment which he had carried to the
shrine, and she presently was restored to life. 7. Irenmus,
a collector, having one of his sons dead, one advised him to
anoint him with some of St. Stephen’s oil; he did so, and
his son was restored to life. After givinor an account of
these miracles, St. Austin goes on and says if I should write
all the miracles performed on men’s bodies, by the memorials
of Sc. Stephen, only at Calama and Hippo, it would be a
work of many volumes, and not be perfect neither. It is
not yet two years since his memory began (that is, his
relics were deposited) at Hippo, and although we ourselves do
know many miracles done there since, that are not recorded,
yet there are relations given in of almost seventy of those
that have been done since that time to this.—St. Aug. lib.
22, de Civit dei. cap. 8.
Several others, miracles of the like nature, are by St.
Ambrose, St. Augustine, and St. Paulinus, related to have
been performed at Milan, by means of the relics of SS.
Gervasius and Protasius; and indeed S. Ambrose, in the
place above quoted, says that the veils which touched those
relics had become instruments of the greatest cures. And
for the truth of these miracles appeals to those who had
been eye-witnesses of them.
Theodoret mentions another practice of the faithful in his
days; for he says that those who ask with faith obtain
their requests, as appears from the Donaries witnessing their
cures. For some hang up the resemblances of eyes, some of
feet, others of hands, made of gold or silver. These show
the martyrs’ power, and that the God whom they worshipped
is the true God.—Serm. 8 de curand. Gracor. Affect.
Tom. 4, p. 593, 594.
Since then Almighty God has been pleased frequently to
work miracles by the means of the relics of the martyrs, in
testimony of his faith and of the sanctity of his servants,
in like manner as he had before wrought the like miracles
by the means of the aprons and handkerchiefs that had
touched the body of St. Paul, in testimony of his Divine
commission and authority to preach the same faith to all the
world: it is no wonder that the Christians should entertain
a great veneration for those sacred remains of those servants
of God, and present themselves before the tombs of the
martyrs, to beg of them to intercede with God in their
| | behalf, to beseech Him to deliver them from their afflictions,
| 11 and bestow upon them all the spiritual and temporal bless-
I I ings of which they stood in need, as the holy fathers in their
! I writings assure us they did. For St. Chrysostom says : He
| | who wears the purple comes to these tombs to kiss them;
! j | and casting off his pride, standeth humbly, invoking the
| I saints that they may defend him at the tribunal of God.
I | And that the tent-maker, and fisherman, though dead, may
| be his patrons, is the earnest request of him that wears the
11 diadem.—St. Chrysost, hom. 26 in Ep. 2 ad Cor.
| And in another place he exhorts the people to make this
| their constant practice. Let us not therefore on this day
| only, but every day visit his tomb, that thereby we may
| obtain spiritual blessings from God. For if by touching
j the bones of Elisha a dead body was restored to life, if a
| man approaches to the tomb with faith, he may with much
| more reason hope for blessings at present, since graces flow
| with more abundance. God has given us the relics of His
! saints that he might lead us by degrees to an emulation of
| | their zeal, and that we might have a security and comfort
I | against the evils which surround us.—Tom. 1 Or. 42, p. 507.
And again : Let us, says he, therefore not only on this day,
j ! but every day, visit their tombs (of Domnina, Berenice,
I | and Prosdoce, whose shrines were in the city of Antioch
| j where he preached this sermon), that thereby we may obtain
| | spiritual blessings from God. Let us beseech them, let us
! | beg of them to be our protectresses. For their power was
] j great, not only when living, but is also, and much more,
! | when dead. For now they bear the marks of Christ. And
! I when they show these, they may obtain all things from the
j ! King.—St. Chrysost. Tom. 1 Or. 51. Ed. Ben. p. 570.
St. Ambrose says: The martyrs are to be invoked, whose
| ! patronage we have a claim to, by possessing their relics. Let
j us not be ashamed to make use of them as intercessors for
I | our infirmity, who knew the weakness of the body, at the
j | same time that they conquered it.—Lib. de Viduis.
Mr. Thorndike, a Protestant writer, says : It is confessed
| that the lights both of the Greek and Latin Church, Basil,
| I Nazianzen, Hysser, Ambrose, Jerome, Augustine, Chrysos-
| | tom, both Cyrils, Theodoret, Fulgentius, Gregory the Great,
| I Leo, more, or rather all after that time, have spoken to the
I i saints, and desired their assistance.—Thorndike'1 s Ep., part
I I 2, p. 359.
| | And Bishop Montague, in his Treatise of the Invocation of
| (| Saints, p. 97, says: I see no absurdity in nature, no in¬
i' | congruity unto analogy of faith, no repugnancy at all to
! I sacred Scripture, much less impiety, for any man to say,
I j | Holy Angel Guardian, pray for me. And again in the same
| I treatise he says of the saints: Could I come at them, or
| 11 certainly inform them of my state, without any question or
| ( more ado, I would readily and willingly say, Holy Peter,
I Blessed Paul, pray for me; recommend my case to Christ
j Jesus our Lord. Were they with me, by me, in my hearing,
| I would run with open arms, and fall upon my knees, and
| with affection desire them to pray for me.
I | Hence then it appears—1. That in the first ages of Chris-
j | tianity the faithful preserved the relics of the martyrs with
! great care and veneration, looking upon them as more
i valuable than gold and precious stones. 2. That God
(i wrought many miracles in favour of those, who at the tombs
? j of the martyrs touched their relics, and with a lively faith
) j implored their intercession. 3. That the holy fathers, the
i most illustrious lights of God’s Church, bear testimony to
II these miracles being wrought. And 4. The same holy
(| fathers exhort and encourage the faithful to visit the relics of
I j the martyrs, and to invoke the martyrs whose relics they
j J visit, that they may obtain by their intercession spiritual
II and temporal blessings from God.
j Venerable Bede, in the fourth book of his Ecclesiastical
| History, cap. 31, 32, gives an account of a man who was in
| j like manner cured of a palsy at the Shrine of St. Cuthbert,
11 and of another who was cured of a swelling in his eyelid, by
11 touching it with some of the hair of the same saint. The
| j | same author relates, in the life of St. Cuthbert, that another
11 person was also cured of a palsy by having the shoes in
11 which St. Cuthbert had been at first buried upon his feet,
I ] cap. 45.
| j St. Bernard says that, after the death of St. Malachias,
'1 “ his funeral rites were performed, the sacrifice and all
Sept. 13, 1878.
123
THE SPIRITUALIST.
things were done with the utmost devotion. At the same
time a lad stood at a distance, whose withered arm hung j
down by his side, and was more troublesome than beneficial
to him. Observing which I made a sign to him to come to
me. And taking hold of his withered arm, I applied it to
the hand of the Bishop, and he restored it to life. For the
gift of healing still remained in the dead body, and his hand
was to the withered hand what Eliseus was to the dead man.
That lad had come from a great distance, and the hand
which he had brought hanging down useless by his side, he
carried back into his own country whole, and as capable of
performing its functions as the other.”—St. Bernard in Vita
S. Malachite, cap. 31.
In every age God has been pleased to work similar miracles j
by the relics of His saints, both to open the eyes of the i
incredulous that, if they will, they may know which is His !
true faith, and embrace it for the salvation of their souls, j j
and likewise to bear testimony to the sanctity of His ||
servants. A multitude of such miracles, after the most j]
rigorous examination, have been juridically proved to have |l
been wrought by the relics of St. Dominick, St. Francis, St.
Anthony of Padua, St. Edmund, Archbishop of Canterbury, j
St. Hugh of Lincoln, St. Richard of Chichester, St. Thomas
of Hereford, St. Vincent Ferrerius, St. Catharine of Sienna, j
St. Francis Xavier, St. John Francis Regis, and a multitude j
of other saints.
Having now given a sufficient account from the testimony |
of the most illustrious writers of the Church ut God of the j
miracles which the Almighty has been pleased to work by i
the relics of His saints, for the confirmation of His faith,
the manifestation of their sanctity, and the relief of those
who, with a lively faith, solicited them to become their patrons i
and intercessors before the throne of God, I come now to
give an account of some of the numerous miracles said to |
have been performed at the tomb of the venerable Benedict
Joseph Labre in favour of several of those who, with the j
like lively faith, implored his intercession — the earliest j
account of which I find expressed in a letter dated the 23rd j
of April, 1783, that is, only seven days after the decease of i
this servant of God, and which was written by the Vicar- j
General of that branch of the Order of Franciscans, called |
the Recollects, to the superior of the convent of the same
order at St. Omer’s, of which the following is an extract:— j
“ Reverend Father,—I think it a duty incumbent on me j
to acquaint you that a young man, named Benedict Joseph j
Labre, died at Rome on Wednesday in Holy week, in the |
odour of sanctity. The miracles which he still continues to |
work, draw to his tomb an infinite number of people who j
publish these wonders. The blind see, the deaf hear, the |
dumb speak, the lame walk, and the paralytics are healed; |
such are the prodigies which our good God works every day |
by the intercession of this holy man. I should be very glad |
to know whether the father and mother of this-good man |
are still living.”
EXTRACT FROM A LETTER WRITTEN BY A PHYSICIAN AT ROME TO HIS SISTER, j
A CARMELITE NUN, AT CAVAILLON, DATED MAY 1, 1783.
“ A poor Frenchman, named Benedict Joseph Labre, died j
on the 16th of last month in the house of a charitable person, j
who had taken him in. On the following morning they
were very much surprised to find that his limbs were supple j
and flexible, as if he had been only asleep. The miraculous I
effects of his intercession have been so rapid and so
numerous, that to satisfy the zeal of the people, whom a j
strong guard of soldiers is scarce able to keep in good order,
they left the body exposed to public view for the space of
four days—all which time the body preserved the flexibility
and freshness of a living man. After his burial an extra¬
ordinary concourse of people assembled from all parts of
Rome, and the adjacent places, which still continues, and
even to this moment they visit the tomb of this blessed man,
who incessantly works miracles in favour of those who with
faith invoke his intercession. The dumb speak, the blind
see, and those who had lost the use of their limbs walk freely, |
and return to their own houses without any assistance, and
dropsical people are cured in an instant. Last Sunday a
poor woman who had the dropsy was carried in the sight of
all the people, and laid upon the stone which covers his
tomb, when they immediately saw a great quantity of very 1
fetid water come out of her feet, and in a moment after she
i found herself perfectly cured. Broken limbs are restored,
j and inveterate ulcers healed in an instant. In a word,
cripples procure themselves to be carried and laid on his
j tomb, and they return full of strength, and as active as if
they had never been out of order. This is a sight which is
repeated every day, and of which the whole city of Rome
are eye-witnesses. I cannot describe to you how much this
I excites their surprise and admiration. The incredulous, as
! well as others, melt into tears on these occasions. 1 myself
| have heard several make this acknowledgment: I could not
| believe what was said concerning miracles, I have been
{ curious, I have been to see them with my own eyes, and now
| I am convinced. What a triumph is this for religion !
<( No one has ever seen such things as these. There are
| people who, without thinking of eating, from the morning
j even till night, never quit the place they get possession of as
j soon as the church doors are opened, in order that they may
j be eye-witnesses of the miracles which are performed every
| instant.
gjfo** From the time of his death to this day, they reckon up
sixty-three miracles of the first magnitude. Among the
rest there is one of a young woman of twenty-two years of
age, who was born dumb, and who all at once obtained the
use of her tongue : they are now teaching her the language,
and she pronounces distinctly everything that they want her
to say.”
| EXTRACT FROM A LETTER FROM AN ENGLISH GENTLEMAN AT ROME, DATED
JUNE 11, 1783.
“ Benedict’s miracles are now going through the fiery
trial of canonical examination; there are not less than
eighty-two upon the list; many more might be added, but
none but the indubitable will ever be admitted, or approved
by the inquest; and, on the other hand, a false modesty
j hinders many from speaking and giving glory to God as
they ought. I myself know a person cured of a disorder
| which a surgeon of the first character positively affirmed to
be incurable, though not mortal, by only once visiting the
church where his remains lay, and begging his prayers.
And yet this cure, and many more, if not more extraordinary,
will never be subjected to discussion. On Saturday I read
the declaration of a physician of Perugia, attesting the pre¬
ternatural cure of a nun in the Benedictine monastery of
that city, and describing many circumstances attending it,
both before and after it was obtained. It was, in short,
thus :—
“ The gentlewoman had been crooked and infirm from a
child, but for the two last years crippled and bedridden to
such a degree that she could not so much as turn herself in
her bed, nor move any part without dislocating some joint
or other. Nothing but dissolution was now expected, and she
had prepared for it—nay, wished for it. At this juncture
the report of Benedict’s death, holiness, and miracles
reached Perugia, and soon after some of the many prints of
him which are daily published in this city. The abbess of
the monastery procured one of them, and going in some
form with her nuns to visit the sister, told her she had
brought the beggar of Rome to cure her, as none of her
doctors could. The poor nun laughed at first, and then
answered that she had so long and so often recommended
her case to the Blessed Mother of God, without any benefit
to the body, that she looked upon it to be God’s will to be
as she was, and that she neither expected nor desired a
miracle. The abbess, however, held the print to her to
kiss, then applied it to her head, next to her shoulder, and
was going on, when the patient suddenly called out, ‘ I am
well, I am perfectly well; reach my habit.’ Being habited,
she went before them without help or support to the choir,
continued some time in prayer and thanksgiving upon her
knees, then heard Mass, and at last joined in singing the
2ye JDeum with the community, every one shedding abun-
I dance of tears of joy and exultation. This is the substance
of the doctor’s narrative, but divested of many remarkable
circumstances and particulars by him specified, as well as
technical terms by him used : he declares the cure to be in
every respect a perfect one, except it be of the gibbosity
| and crookedness which grew with her from her childhood,
1 and still remains; and he concludes by assuring us of his
124
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 13, 1878.
readiness and desire to attest the truth of everything here
said upon oath, unless it be the mode of cure, which, not
being an eye-witness to, he can only know from testimony.
In effect, the Bishop of Perugia is now instituting an
inquiry into those matters, and we shall soon see the
doctor’s deposition in form. If his present declaration
needed any further confirmation, I might add that Mr. j
Fermor, of this place, has a sister in the same nunnery, from
whom we had already learnt the same, and some more singu- 1
larities accompanying this stupendous transaction.
“ I must give you one little history more and I have done.
A child of near four years old, three weeks ago, by an un- j
lucky fall, cut its tongue with its teeth in such a manner j
that a large end of it, and part of one side, hung out of its
mouth, and seemed to hang only by a thread. The poor
mother, almost distracted, ran with it in her arms to the
Hospital of our Lady of Consolation, imagining the surgeons
might be able to sew it up ; but they strongly asserted it to
be impossible, and said they could only cut away the loose
part, leaving the other to heal of itself, and that the child
must remain dumb. From thence she ran to the Hospital
of St. Gralla, and received the same answer. Then returning
home, and passing by the Church of S. Mary di Monti, near [
which she lived, she, for the first time, bethought herself I
of Benedict, and rushing through the guards, called upon i j
him aloud to assist her and her child. She left the church J j
as precipitately as she entered it, and was no sooner within |
her own doors, than she took up a print representing Bene- ]
diet at his prayers, with it touched the extremity of the j
child’s tongue, and replaced it in the mouth, then lulling it I
to sleep, which after some time she effected, and slipping j
the print under its cheek, she retired to grieve and to pray, j
After about two hours, as near as she can guess, the child j
awoke and called for mamma, and for something to eat. The j
mouth being inspected, the tongue was found perfectly !
cicatrised, exhibiting no mark of any injury it had received, j (
excepting a seam of a livid purplish cast, running partly j
across it, and partly along, in the same direction with the j
wound before. They are near neighbours of Mr.  —; and
not only that neighbourhood, but a great part of Rome, is
daily seeing, with its own eyes, a living proof of Benedict’s
acceptableness to Heaven. I think Thomas and myself
happy in being in Rome, but more happy still in being here
at so distinguished a period.
“We have just now before us a conversion which has
made a great noise amongst our countrymen in this city.
The convert was a Presbyterian teacher at Boston, in New
England, was sent over upon some errand to Doctor j
Franklin, and though young, has travelled over a consider¬
able part of Europe, studying the modern languages with a
view to qualify himself as a professor of the same in one of
our universities. At Rome (where he has not been long), j
without neglecting the language of the country, he turned j
his thoughts to religion, studied it in books, canvassed it in
conversation with the Italians, and oftenerwith our English
and Scotch priests, and viewed it in all its practices (of (
which this city exhibits all its varieties), from the Pope’s
chapel down to the vault of Benedict. The consequence is, j
that his former views are now frustrated, and he thinks no (j
more of settling at Cambridge.—On Sunday, the 25th of j!
May, he made his profession of the Catholic faith in form.— | !
Since that he has made a spiritual retreat of some days, j |
and on Sunday, the first instant, he made his first com- ‘ j
munion. It is remarkable that what first (under God) made j j |
him begin to judge better of Catholics than he had been j |
taught, or taught others to do, was the behaviour of the j I
French sailors and soldiers (not always the most exemplary) I i
at Boston; having never before seen a Catholic to his | (|
knowledge.—He seems to be under very particular obliga- j ( j
tions to the French, for what was begun by their military, | > j
one of their mendicants has completed by the odour of his j | j
sanctity, by the lustre of his miracles (which were examined ! c
by our inquirer on the spot), and by the influence of his j>
prayers.” j v [
EXTRACT FROM A LETTER FROM THE ABBE BE LUREL, DATED ROME, JOLT j (
16th, 1783.
j| Such things as these have never been seen at Rome j j!
even in the most holy times. The English and others cry | (j
oat loudly, It must be acknowledged he was a good man.
With regard to his miracles, the solicitor for the process of
his beatification has shown me a list of near two hundred
cures of all kinds of the most inveterate and incurable dis¬
orders that have been successively performed, and which
have been well proved. Accounts of miracles are sent from
I all parts, and people come from the most distant places, both
j to give juridical testimony of, and to return thanks for their
cure.”
A COLLECTION OF DIVERS MIRACULOUS CURES, OBTAINED BT THE INTERCESSION
OF THE VENERABLE SERVANT OF GOD, BENEDICT JOSEPH LABRE, EXTRACTED
FROM THE REGISTER PRESERVED IN THE CHURCH OF S. MART DI MONTI,
WHICH IN THE WHOLE AMOUNT TO THE NUMBER OF ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY-SIX, WHICH HAVE BEEN CERTIFIED TILL THIS DAT, JULY 6, 1783,
WITHOUT RECKONING MANY OTHERS, WHICH HAVE NOT YET BEEN ENTERED
INTO THE REGISTERS, ON ACCOUNT OF THEIR NOT HAVING BEEN YET
SUFFICIENTLY ATTESTED.
April 19.—Angelica Cardellini, aged twenty-four years, of
the parish of S. Francis of Paula di Monti, having been to
visit the corpse of the servant of God, by his intercession
was immediately healed of a languor and almost continual
fever, and of a dilated vein in her breast, which occasioned
violent convulsions ; and at the same time she recovered her
voice, which she had lost for the space of eighteen months.
On the 20th of the same month, Angelica Raura, widow,
about sixty years of age, of the parish of St. Mark, having
been brought to the tomb of the servant of God in a chair,
by the help of four porters, by his intercession recovered the
use of all her limbs, of which she had been deprived by two
apoplectic fits, from which time she had remained unable to
move herself on her bed for the space of fourteen months.
She left her chair in the church as a memorial of her cure,
and walked home to her own house upon her feet.
Mary Qnercionnie, forty-eight years of age, daughter of
Nicholas, born in the territory of Maillart, in the Marche of
Ancona, in the diocess of Fermo, was for twenty years
afflicted with a schirrous tumour of an extraordinary size on
her hip, with a great flow of blood, which sometimes reduced
her to such extremity that the last sacraments were ad¬
ministered to her, being carried, on the 20th of April, to
the tomb of the servant of God, she obtained a perfect cure
of her schirrous tumour; and all her other ailments ceased
in a moment.
On the 3rd of May, Joseph Bonnemain, of the city of
Civitta-Yecchia, coming to the tomb of the servant of God,
was immediately cured of a fistula in his right eye, with
which he had been afflicted for the space of five years, and
which deprived him of sight. He recovered his sight
perfectly.
On the 5 th of May, Palma Sacripantie, of the city of
Fermo, aged twenty years, had a cancer in her breast, and a
continual flux of blood, accompanied with continual pains.
She was, moreover, agitated with most violent convulsions,
and vomited up all the nourishment she took. The three
last days she was reduced to such extremity that she could
take nothing, was entirely given over by the physicians, and
being almost ready to breathe out her last, she invoked the
servant of God. Then falling asleep for a moment, he
appeared to her and said, Arise, and eat, which she immedi¬
ately did with a great appetite. After this laying down in
her bed, and falling asleep again, the servant of God ap¬
peared to her a second time, and with a distinct voice said,
Arise, thou art healed. She then sat up, and perceived that
the cancer which had consumed her was gone, and with the
greatest astonishment found that she was in a state of such
perfect health as she never before enjoyed.
On the 9th of May, Madam Felicia Ruzzi, of the country
of Rupitre, belonging to Duke Matheo, having recourse to
the servant of God, and having one of his pictures applied
to her, was cured of a chronic complaint, with which she
had been tormented for the space of eighteen years, and
which had confined her to her bed for the space of a year
and a half, having her body swelled in an extraordinary
manner, and being full of ulcerous wounds in her mouth
and throat.
On the same day, Mrs. Rosa Lebeau, wife of Mr. Lebeau,
Aide-Major of the Castle of S. Angelo, of the parish beyond
the bridge, having recommended herself to the service of
God, by the application of one of his pictures was in an
instant perfectly cured of a painful swelling which she had
for the space of two years in one of her knees.
125
fSEPT. 13, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
On the 10th of May, Mrs. Ann Pellevini, a nun in a j
monastery of the city of Perugia, aged twenty-six years,
being many years afflicted with a schirrous tumour and a
continual fever, and oppressed with the rickets, which,
jointly with the schirrous, had distorted her whole body, and j
made her right leg eight fingers’-breadth shorter than the |
left, so that she could not turn in her bed without being j
helped by the other nuns, and at every time she was turned I
some joint or other was dislocated. Being reduced to this
miserable condition, they had recourse to this good servant of I
God, and by applying one of his pictures to her, she recovered j
a state of perfect health. j
On the 15 th of May, Dominick Fallavini, of the country I
called “ The Little Poste,” in the manor of the Marquis of
Zelloni, made a vow to God that he would visit the tomb of !
Benedict. And in consequence of this vow, setting out j
on his journey, at his first departure found himself j
delivered of a gangrenous wound which covered his
whole leg, accompanied with exquisite pains, and which by
the surgeons had been declared to be incurable and mortal.
Scarce had he arrived at the tomb but he found himself |
entirely cured. J
On the 22 nd of May, Michael Goaca, a porter of the parish '
of S. Lawrence, at Bipette, having been brought in the arms i
of other porters, and laid upon the tomb of the servant of |
God, by his intercession in a moment recovered the use of 1
all his limbs, and likewise the use of his tongue, and re- i
turned home to his own house without any assistance.
On the 23rd of May, Teresa Spoletta, of the parish of S. 1
Nicholas-the-Crowned, having been blind for the space of
nine years, by visiting the tomb of the servant of God
recovered her sight in an instant.
Sister Mary Brunne, alias Mary du Cruz, of the Convent
of S. Appollonia, at Rome, being greatly wasted away by a
convulsive cough, accompanied with sharp pains and a slow
fever, which she had had for the space of fourteen months,
and being also unable to retain her food, having recom¬
mended herself to the servant of God, and being touched
with a part of one of his garments, was instantly cured, and
at the same time freed from a languor to which she had
been subject eighteen years.
On the 24th of May, Dominica Conty, wife of Mr.
Conty, a master mason, of the city of Bauni, had been let
blood in the right arm, in the year 1783, by an unskilful
surgeon, who in the operation wounded one of the tendons,
in consequence of which her arm was so swelled, and at the
same time so contracted, that all the faculty had resolved to
proceed to amputation, as the evil had made such a progress
that she could not move her joints, and her fourth finger
had lost all sensation. In this condition she had recourse
to the servant of God, and when she lay down to sleep put
a little bit of his linen on her arm. In the morning, when
she got up, she found that she was perfectly cured.
Maria Laurentia Spadonine, forty-seven years of age, wife j
of Francis Tedesguini, of Civitta-Yecchia, having been over- |
turned in a cart on the 13 th of September, 1782, had her |
left arm broke, and a wound made in the right arm which I
cut through one of the veins and reached to the bone. Her
left arm was so maimed and useless that she could not move
either her hand or her fingers. Her right arm was likewise j
much maimed, though she could make some little use of it. |
On the 26th of May, after having prayed, and applied to her j
arms a small bit of the shirt of the servant of God, she was j
immediately and perfectly cured.
On the 27th of May, Octavia Yergaree, a native of Yiterbo,
living in the Square de Morganne, at Rome, aged forty-six J
years, having, with a great deal of difficulty, been carried in j
a coach to the tomb of the servant of God, was entirely cured !
of a chronoguinee which had confined her to her bed eight j
years.
ACCOUNT OF A MIRACLE WROUGHT THROUGH THE INTERCESSION OF THE I
SERVANT OF GOD, BENEDICT JOSEPH LABRE, ON A NUN OF THE CONVENT j
OF BOLENE, IN THE DIOCESS OF ST. PAUL TROIS CHATEAUX, SENT BY M. j
EYMARD, ARCHDEACON OF THE SAID DIOCESS, DATED JULY 4TH, 1783.
A nun of the Convent of the Holy Sacrament, at Bolene,
a few days after her profession, fell ill of a most extra- 1
ordinary complaint. For three years and a half, which her ]
disorders have confined her to her bed, the habitual state Of i
her body made her subject to violent pains, cholics, frequent 1
convulsions, and faintings, so that she sometimes remained
j as if she was dead; as likewise to vomitings, spitting of
j blood, and an absolute loathing of all kind of food. To
| these accumulated and continued complaints was added a
| great pain in her side, which made every one fear for her
j life ; but God reserved her to make His goodness and His
j power shine at a time when miracles appear to be so
necessary. After each paroxysm, this good nun was in a
| most pitiful state ; she frequently felt most violent pains,
which she said seemed to her as if she had melted lead in
I her bowels. After about six weeks her condition grew still
j worse; she voided her excrements by her mouth, which
ordinarily happened once in two days. And they were so
i hard, and occasioned such violent efforts, that she was almost
choked, and could scarcely pull them out with her fingers.
The physician of Bolene, who constantly attended her, de¬
clares he never saw any complaint like hers, and that if it
could be in any case lawful to shorten any person’s days, in
order to deliver them from their afflictions, it would have
been lawful to have done it to this nun, on account of her
excessive sufferings.
The other Religious, who did everything for her which
charity could suggest, performed a novena to implore the
intercession of Benedict for her cure, and exhorted her to
j recommend herself to his prayers for that purpose. She
replied she did not want to be cured, but only that God
would give her grace to suffer with patience whatsoever He
should be pleased to ordain. She persevered in these senti¬
ments till two days before she was cured, when she began to
entertain a great desire of recovering her health, that she
might be able to perform the exercises prescribed by the rule
of her order; and, above all, that she might visit and adore
Jesus Christ in the blessed sacrament.
k^On the 29th of June, which was the last day of the
novena, this pious desire was greatly increased, and she
expressed an earnest wish to have a picture of the venerable
Benedict, as she heard that some of them were in the city.
She several times begged of the nuns to procure one for her.
At length they brought her one of them. Her confidence
was now greater than ever; she invoked this venerable man,
and at the same time desired of the superior that the nuns
should recommend her to God in the vespers which they
were going to say in the choir. Behold now the wonderful
work of God.
& While they were saying vespers, this nun, who had lost
I the use of her limbs, who could scarce lift her head from
I her pillow, who had lost her sight from extreme weakness,
I and was almost at the point of death (as has been attested
I by the physician and the religious of that house), all at once
I perceived herself well. I am cured, said she to the in-
firmarian, who every moment expected her to expire ; go
and fetch my habit that I may get up. But can you see ?
said the infirmarian. Yes, very well, said the sick person.
And is not your stomach out of order ? Look at it, said
the sick person; it is come to its natural state. The in-
i firmarian, overjoyed, ran to fetch her habit, and at her return
| found her sitting upright in her bed. Being clothed, she
got upon her feet, and tottered a little. Courage, my dear
| sister, said the infirmarian, redouble your confidence in God;
and at the same time she knelt down, and cried out: My
| God, perfect the work you have begun. Immediately after
this the sick person went out of the infirmary to go and
II return thanks to God. Being come to the stairs, she did
!! not walk, but in a manner flew down. The infirmarian, being
’j frightened, screamed out. All the community imagining
[ | that the sick person had expired, some of the religious and
! | boarders came immediately out of the choir, and they met
| the sick nun, who was now perfectly cured. At this instant
I they were beginning complin, and that she might not inter-
| rupt the divine office, she went to the upper choir to prostrate
j herself before the blessed sacrament. When complin was
j finished she went down to the lower choir and again pros-
| trated herself before the blessed sacrament, and then before
j her superior. And immediately after all the community,
I overjoyed, sung the Te Deum. I leave it to you to think
| what passed among these holy persons on such a marvellous
I occasion. After all the demonstrations of joy they offered
| her some broth. Oh! said she, I would rather eat, for I
'! find that I have an appetite. She eat, she assisted at the
126
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 13, 1878.
rosary with the community, and, at supper time, went to the |
refectory and eat with a good appetite. After having (I
finished her supper, at which she eat more than any of the j
others, she desired to relieve /the reader, and read with a j
strong voice; although before, she had lost her voice. From j
that time she has every day regularly assisted at all the |
duties of the community, and has always been perfectly well. | j
Nothing can be more false than the report which was ( j
spread of her relapse. From the moment of her miraculous j
cure she has, without any interruption, enjoyed a state of
the most perfect health. Her voice, her sight, her flesh, her j
pulse, her strength was all restored at once. She has not j
failed, nor does she fail to observe all the rules of the com- !
munity, being the first at every exercise, both by day and |
by night, as if she had never been subject to the least com- I
plaint. | j
The physician of Bolene, being convinced that this cure I
was miraculous, intends to make his report of it to the
bishop, who waits for his testimony in order to transmit the
process to the Holy See.
(Signed) Etmartj, |
Archdeacon of the diocess of St. Pqul-Trois Chateaux. (
Since the publication of the French edition of the Life of !
Benedict Joseph Labre, from which this is translated, the j I
following account has been received from France, viz., that j j ]
“ Mary Bayard, called also Mary Raymond, fifty-one years j j j
of age, wife of Peter Derlate, labourer, of the parish of f
Hesdigneul, in the diocess of Arras, had about fifteen years j j
ago been siezed with a stroke of the palsy, from which time j |
she was not able to move her leg or thigh, but they appeared j |
as if they were dead, and were also destitute of sensation. I j
Nor was she able to move herself from one place to another, ! !
but only by dragging herself upon her hands and knees. I !
And for these last five years her limbs were so contracted j
that she was not able to sit upon a chair, but was obliged to j
have a particular kind of stool made on purpose for her. J
This poor but virtuous woman, hoping to put an end to her j
affliction, formed a pious design of going to the Church of I |
St. Sulpice de Amette, the church of the place where Bene- j |
diet was born, to implore relief from God by the intercession j |
of his servant. In vain did her friends represent to her I
that the jolting of a carriage might put her in danger of
dying on the road, for so great was her confidence in the |
mercy of God, and in the powerful intercession of His j
servant, that she was resolved to set out for that place. In j j
consequence of this resolution, she, on the twenty-eighth of i j
June, 1784, received the sacraments of penance and the j
Eucharist, and on the same day, being accompanied by nine j
persons, set out from Hesdigneul to go to Amette. Being j
arrived at the churchyard of Amette, she was taken down j
from the carriage, carried into the church, and placed near 1
the baptismal font, where she remained in the most decent j
posture her situation would permit. Scarce had she said a j
few prayers, but she perceived a violent agitation through- j |
out her whole body, and a profuse sweat from head to foot, I ]
but principally at her knees, where she also perceived a most j j
violent pain, which made her give a sudden start. Her eye- j j j
sight then failed her, and she almost fainted away, but j j j
coming to herself in a few moments after, she all at once ! !
raised herself up on her feet, and cried out, My God, I am ! j |
cured. Let us return thanks to God, and acknowledge the | ( j
kindness of His servant. ! j
“ As she had before ordered one of her sons, who accom- | j
panied her, to light up some candles in honour of Benedict 1 ( ]
Joseph Labre, he returned to tell her that he had no money j j |
left to put into the plate for the poor. Help me, said she, and j | j
I will do it myself. And accordingly she went, being sup- j j j
ported by her son. After which she walked round the | j j
church, being assisted by her two sons, who supported her j j |
on each side holding her under the arms, and she walked | j
quick, taking short steps like a child who is learning to I j
walk. After this she went to rest herself at the vicarage j j j
house, where she eat some milk soup, and declared all the j j j
above-mentioned circumstances of her cure in presence of a j H
great number of the inhabitants of Amette, who had j | j
assembled together in consequence of the report of this j j j
miracle, and of the persons who had come with her from | ? j
Hesdigneul. She then returned to Hesdigneul in the same Hr
carriage which had conveyed her to Amette, where, being 11 i
arrived, all the inhabitants were astonished at the news of
her being cured. The bells were rung, and a solemn Te
Beum was sung, to return thanks to God for so signal a
favour.
“ The weakness which the said Mary Helena Bayard per¬
ceived after her cure was the necessary consequence of her
formerly inactive state, and the poor and little nourishment
which she took. For some days after her arrival at Hesdig¬
neul, having taken some good nourishment, with which she
was supplied by some rich and pious persons of that place,
and of Bethune, the said Mary Helena Bayard walked on
foot, both to the church, and to Bethune, even without the
help of a stick, and ever since that time has done the
ordinary business of her station. She has also been visited
by several physicians and surgeons, who attest her cure to
be complete and perfect.
“ This day, the twenty-fifth of August, the said Mary
Helena Bayard came accompanied, by several other persons,
from Hesdigneul to this place of Amette, which is near four
leagues, in order to thank God for his mercy, and Benedict
Joseph Labre for his intercession in her behalf. And after
having breakfasted with me* with a good appetite, rested
about two hours, and declared to me that she does not now
perceive any remains of her former complaint. She is now
going to return on foot to Hesdigneul, which we, whose
names are hereunto subscibed, certify to be true. In witness
whereof we have hereunto set our hands, at Amette, this
twenty-fifth day of August, 1784.”
(Signed) Playottlt,■ Rector of Amette.
Bourgeois, Vicar of Amette.
Duhameaux, Rector of Hesdigneul.
N.B.—The reader is desired to observe that though 1 have
here related the accounts of those cures according as they
have been sent from Rome in 'several letters from several
different persons who are worthy of all credit, yet the relation
of these facts depends only on the testimony and veracity of
the private persons who sent those accounts. The Church
has not yet examined and given its solemn decision and
sentence concerning any one of them. They are indeed at
present under examination, and the greatest care will be, as
it always is, taken to investigate the authenticity of every
one in particular, so that no doubt may ever after remain
of the divine interposition in those which it shall pronounce
to be cures truly miraculous. This will be a work of time,
because several steps are necessary to be taken with each one
of the cures said to have been performed; as—1. The
previous existence of the complaint must be proved by the
testimony of the person cured, of the physicians and others
of the faculty who attended him, and of other persons who
knew him whilst in a suffering state. 2. The cure itself, or
a transition from a state of infirmity to a state of health, as
likewise the permanency of the cure, must be proved by the
testimony of the person cured, of physicians and others of
the faculty, and of other persons who knew the person cured
both in the state of sickness and in the state of health. 3.
It must be proved that the cure itself was not effected by the
means of medicines or other ordinary applications,
according to the prescriptions of physicians and surgeons.
4. It must be proved that the cure was effected not in any
long tract of time, but either absolutely or almost instan¬
taneously, in such manner as to show the impossibility of its
having been effected either by art or nature. 5. It must be
proved that the instantaneous cure or sudden transition from
a state of infirmity to a state of health, was effected either
in consequence of an invocation of the servant of God for
that purpose, or by the application of something which had
formerly belonged to him. 6. These instantaneous cures
must be proved not only by the testimony of the persons
themselves who have been cured, but also by the testimony
of other persons who were eye-witnesses of the mode of
cure. 7. No persons will be admitted to give evidence to
any of these things, but those who are of mature age, sound
judgment, intelligent in their profession of physic or
surgery, and of strict probity and undoubted veracity. 8.
Everything that they testify must be upon oath. 9. And
lastly, all these things being committed to writing and
properly attested by those who are duly authorised to receive
* Playoult, rector of Amette, and one of the Commissaries appointed by the Bishop of
Boulogne to take information concerning Benedict Joseph Labre.
Sept. 13, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
127
the depositions of the witnesses, must be delivered to the
advocate of the faith to undergo a most severe scrutiny
before the congregation of cardinals who constitute the rota.
It is therefore evident that the examination of these
miraculous cures which are said to have been performed at
the tomb of this servant of God, and in other places, will
take up a considerable time. And although they are now
under examination, we have not heard that the Church has
as yet pronounced its solemn sentence concerning any one of
them. The only ground therefore on which they stand at
present is the credit and veracity of the private, though
numerous witnesses who relate them as from their own
knowledge and ocular demonstration. Let us not therefore
presume to forestall the judgment of the Church by publish¬
ing them as incontestable miracles, but wait the event of
the present investigation, not doubting but that God will,
according to His promise, by His Holy Spirit, guide His
Church into all truth, and continue with it even to the end
of the world.
Mirabilis Deus in Sanctis suis.
“GONE HOME.”
Mrs. Frances H. Green M‘Dougall, a medium, authoress,
and frequent contributor to the Spiritualistic and other
American periodicals, passed to the higher life on the 10th
of June last. JDr. S. B. Brittan has written a biographical
notice of her, which. is published in the Banner of Light
(Boston, U.S.), of August 24th, 1878. From it we make
the following extracts :—
From the year 1852 to 1854, Mrs. M‘Dougall was a highly
valued contributor to the pages of the Shekinah, a spiritual
magazine, edited and published by the present writer. In
the first volume of that work will be found her {* Time and
the Ages,” one of her finest poems. The subject is treated
in an eminently original and effective manner. With a
rushing sound, as of great pinions smiting the still air, until
silence became voiceful, Time—in the character of a vene¬
rable sage—appears, mounted on
 a majestic car,
Borne by six eagles, black as Erebus.
The stately form, the lofty mien, and benign expression of
the Sage, are described with remarkable force and poetic
effect. His face, which bears the stamp of sovereignty,
radiates the light of all ages.
On that brow
Were the deep traces of all human thought,
While every feature seemed a history
Of human disappointments, sorrows, joys,
Affections, hopes, and passions infinite.
Of all the daughters of Time, only the Present Age remains ;
and she is clothed with all the beauty and glory of the past.
Reclining on the massive breast of the Father of all Ages,
she questions him :—
Oh, bless me, gentle Father, with the love
My heart so long hath yearned for—of the Dead !
Speak of my Sisters, who are sleeping still
In the deep tomb of Ages.
With a smile
That passed o’er his stern features, leaving there
A trace of fairest sunshine, he embraced
The gentle creature with one massive arm,
And in the fullness of his love replied :
The dead, sayest thou, my child 1 There are no dead.
His voice woke, surging, like the distant sea
Pouring its strong bass through some pearly cave,
That softened, while it deepened,- the rich toms.
My children ! it is true they all are gone—
All gone, but thee my last and loveliest one !
Singly they came ; singly they all departed ;
And when their work was done, lay down to sleep ;
But never one hath died. True, forms may change,
But spirit is immortal. . . .
Darkness and death are but residuum—
The grosser portion of all human hopes,
Thoughts, struggles, passions, labours, and desires,
Whence the ethereal essence hath burnt out—
The ashes of the Past. Yet even this
Hath made soil for the future. Not one trace
Of life can ever perish. Mid all changes
Of Mind and Matter, every ray of light,
All hope, all faith, all action, and all thought,
Which has vitality within itself,
Lives for a fellowship with purer light—
With loftier action, thought, and hope, and faith—
Lives with an ever-concentrating power,
Which, as it strengthens, reaches centrewards.
Mrs. Green wrote with great freedom of thought and
diction, and was neither limited in her themes nor the
method of their treatment. When the subject involved im¬
portant principles ; when it took hold of great human
interests, or presented poetic aspects, she was often truly
inspired. Her mind was full of light, and her pen became
a tongue of fire, illuminating whatever it touched. Some¬
times a mere question—like the rod that smote the rock in
the wilderness—seemed to strike the living fountain of her
inspiration. Now and then, a single remark would produce
an effect as instantaneous as the falling of a spark into a
magazine. We have a remarkable instance of this in the
production of her “ Song of the North Wind,” a poem of
about one hundred and fifty lines, in which the force of
strong words and the whole metrical movement suggests the
blasts of polar skies and the grand march of the tornado.
This poem was composed one evening early in March, 1848.
The writer of this had just returned from his office at the
| close of the day. It was a cold night, and the wind was
| blowing a gale from the north. On entering the door I met
| Mrs. Green, whom I thus addressed : “ Well, Fanny, the
Spirit of the North Wind is having a grand rehearsal to-
| night. The rhythmical movement is rapid and powerful,
! and the music full of startling crescendos” Starting
j suddenly, as if moved by an electric shock, she made no
I reply, but rushing upstairs, disappeared. In an hour and
! a half she returned with the poem complete and ready for
| the press. My observation, made without premeditation,
suggested the theme, and instantly the invisible powers of
the air swept over her soul, waking the strings of her lyre
to the stately numbers of this boreal march. It was no “ill
wind” that produced such a result; it was rather a ofrpme
afflatus^ that gave to the inspired poet a power of expres-
| sion, majestic and free as the wild blasts which cradled her
muse. Boreas rehearses his victories on land and sea. I
| will here extract portions of this grand anthem :—
SONG- OF THE NORTH WIND.
From the home of Thor, and the land of Hun,
Where the valiant frost-king defies the sun,
Till he, like a coward, slinks away
With the spectral glare of his meagre day—
And throned in beauty, peerless Night,
In her robes of snow and her crown of light,
Sits queenlike on her icy throne,
With frost-flowers in her pearly zone—
And the fair Aurora floating free,
Bound her form of matchless symmetry—
An irised mantle of roseate hue,
With the gold and hyacinth melting through ;
And from her forehead, beaming far,
Looks forth her own true polar star.
From the land we love—our native home—
On a mission of wrath, we come, we come !
Away, away, over earth and sea!
Unchained and chainless, we are free!
As we fly our strong wings gather force,
To rush on our overwhelming course:
We have swept the mountain and walked the main,
And now in our strength we are here again ;
To beguile the stay of this wintry hour
We are chanting our anthem of pride and power ;
And the listening earth turns deadly pale—
Like a sheeted corse, the silent vale
Looks forth in its robe of ghastly white,
As now we rehearse our deeds of might.
The strongest of God’s sons are we—
Unchained and chainless, ever free !
We have looked on Hecla’s burning brow,
And seen the pines of Norland bow
In cadence to our deafening roar,
On the craggy steep of the Arctic shore ;
We have waltzed with the maelstrom’s whirling flood,
And curdled the current of human blood,
As nearer, nearer, nearer drew
The struggling barque to the boiling blue—
Till, resistless, urged to the cold death-clasp,
It writhes in the hideous monster’s gra-<p
A moment—and then the fragments go
Down, down to the fearful depths below !
But away, away, over land and sea,
Unchained and chainless, we are free!
128
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 13, 1878.
We have startled the poising avalanche,
And seen the cheek of the mountain blanch,
As down the giant ruin came,
With a step of wrath and an eye of flame ;
Hurling destruction, death, ‘and wo
On all around and all below,
Till the piling rocks and the prostrate wood
Conceal the spot where the village stood;
And the choking waters vainly try
From their strong prison-hold to fly!
We haste away for our breath is rife,
With the groans of expiring human life !
Of that hour of horror we only may tell—
As we chant the dirge and we ring the knell;
Away, away, over land and sea,
Unchained and chainless—we are free !
******
Old Neptune we call from his ocean caves,
When for pastime we dance on the crested waves ;
And we heap the struggling billows high
Against the angry gloom of the sky ;
Then we plunge in the yawning depth beneath,
And there on the heaving surges breathe,
Till they toss the proud ship like a feather,
And Light and Hope expire together;
And the bravest cheek turns deadly pale
At the cracking mast and the rending sail.
As down, with headlong fury borne,
Of all her strength and honours shorn,
The good ship struggles to the last
With the raging waters and howling blast!
We hurry the waves to their final crash,
And the foaming floods to frenzy lash ;
Then we pour our requiem on the billow,
As the dead go down to their ocean pillow—
Down—far down—to the depths below,
Where the pearls repose, and the sea-gems glow ;
Mid the coral groves, where the sea-fan waves
Its palmy wand o’er a thousand graves ;
And the insect weaves her stony shroud
Alike o’er the humble and the proud;
What c&n be mightier than we,
The strong, the chainless, ever free !
The following extracts contain the material portions of
Mrs. Parry’s description of Mrs. M‘DougalPs last hours :—
A few weeks before she passed on she complained of a pain in the
left breast and arm, but not very severe. . . . She was not confined to
her bed, only lying down at intervals to rest. She did not write any on
her work. I tried to keep her interested by getting such books as she
wished for reference. One, the Celtic Druids, had never been drawn
from the library in San Francisco since it was founded until it was taken
for her. The librarian seemed astonished that there was a mind on this
coast which called for such a book. Oh, that precious week that I spent
with her here ! they are the holy days of all my life. I shall dwell on
them with loving memories whilst I remain here, and live them over
again with her in the “ Bright Beyond.” Precious, peerless friend ! be
thou the first to greet me there! Sunday, June 9th, the last of the days
she spent with us, she rose as usual, and took breakfast with us. After
breakfast she said, “You are my own 1 Brownie; ’ come up stairs and
stay with me. We will listen to the voices; they will have something
to say to us.” I complied with her request, and spent the entire day
with her. ... At four o’clock we had dinner, which she enjoyed. After
dinner she played backgammon with my husband, and was very much
interested, winning the games. After that we spent a long, delightful
evening, chatting together, she being in one of her most charming
moods. . . . About 8 o’clock p.m. she said she would like to rest. I
helped her undress, but when I kissed her for “good night,” she said,
“ I wish you would stay with me.” I shaded the light so it would not
annoy her, and sat down by the table to read until she fell asleep. She
was soon in a sweet and peaceful slumber. It seemed as if the angels
were giving their beloved sleep to prepare her for the approaching strife.
About 9 o’clock she awoke, to suffer the most intense pain, until the
loving angel whom we call “ Death ” folded his arms around her, and
gave her rest, peace, and glory. The last message of the angel voices
to her was, “ You will soon be better.” . . .
She had a yearning for all that she loved in the Valley. She longed
to see her husband and the dear friends at Merced. So I told her that
as she was not able to write much I would get her ready, and the first
opportunity she had for company on the way she should go and make a
visit for a few weeks, and I would send the means for her return ; that
the change would no doubt be beneficial to her, and she would then be
able, with renewed strength and energy, to resume her labour of love;
that we loved her as tenderly as a mother, and our home was her home
just as much as it was ours. She was very much affected, and said she
would be so delighted to make the visit, and would return to us, and
stay until Mr. M'Dougall should have a home of his own for her. I
felt then that she was our very own—our household treasure. . . .
When she passed “ beyond the veil ” the sun was just flooding the world
with a golden light. It seemed as if the opening of the upper gates
for her entrance had let celestial light shine through to earth. Her
funeral took place from our house Thursday at 12 o’clock. Her remains
were placed in a plain casket, with a plate bearing this inscription:—
Fraxces H. G. M'Dougall,
Departed
June 10th, 1878.
I The whole casket was covered with rich, rare, and fragrant flowers.
One friend brought a very beautiful cross and wreath. She said she did
not bring them as an emblem of any faith, but the cross was a symbol
of what she had endured, and the wreath of the victory she had won.
Her dress was the gift of another dear friend. It was white cashmere
trimmed with folds of satin. Her luxuriant, lovely hair, which I had
brushed and arranged so often, I dressed with her own natural curls, and
I placed above her brow a wreath of fadeless laurel which she had so
truly won. It was my last gift for her, my gifted friend. In her hands
II placed Joan of Arc roses and immortelles—the one for her husband,
and the other for her loving friends of Merced. On the piano, by the
| side of the casket, was placed a beautiful harp made of autumn leaves
| and grasses. It had no broken string, for we all thought her life had
I been to us so perfect, that no broken link could mar its loveliness.
Mr. Plum, an old friend of hers, made a good address. A hymn was
| sung of the Better Land. Mr. Moore, another friend, read an appro¬
priate poem; another hymn was sung, and a few loving words of bene¬
diction said, which closed the services at the house.
We then proceeded to the Mountain View Cemetery. After the
casket was placed in the grave we strewed upon it green boughs of the
weeping willow, after which all present dropped in a small bunch of
fragrant flowers. When the grave was finished we all joined in singing
the “ Sweet By-and-Bye,” and we left her there to rest. Dear, dear
Fanny! thanks be unto Grod for the unspeakable gift of thy grand, noble
life! . . .
THE RELATION OF SPIRITUALISM TO CHRISTIANITY.
BY J. A. CAMPBELL.
The address given before the Marylebone Association
by Mr. Pearce, on the subject of Christianity, has inte-
| rested me greatly. That the moral sense of Spiritualists
| is infinitely higher than that of average so-called Orthodox
| Christians, no one having a knowledge of both could deny
I with any truth ; to do justly, not to cheat, not to lie, and
| not to money-grub; laws fundamental such as these, about
| which no one but rogues question and cavil, about which
| no one has a right to an “ opinion,” are venerated to some
| extent by the one and obeyed by the other. Spiritualism
j has, in the main, been the declarant of afixed and absolute
| law of right, “binding as the bracelet upon the arm, binding
| as the shield upon the neck,” to which the true in every
| age have bowed, and which was, in the early days of
| Western Christianity, and in the prime of it, generally
! acknowledged, if imperfectly obeyed; to this was added, in
| what may justly be called the Ages of Faith, the all-
i powerful element of Religion, by which I mean the realisa-
| tion of a binding link between heaven and earth, the pre-
| sence of the Son of God sustaining and helping in all time
| of tribulation or of wrath : thus giving soothing to the heart
i j and guidance to the imagination, also making morality a
j tender and a human thing. The supremacy of this element
I it is that separates the teaching of Christianity from every
j other teaching, living union with a living person eternally ;
! the promise of it “ Jesus and the Resurrection.” Failing
| to realise this seems to have been the reason of the want
| of success which has hitherto attended the teachings of
| those who are called liberal theologians, and realisation of it
j the strength of Ritualists and Ranters. Strange it is to me
|| that so few Spiritualists seem to see that no sort of religion,
i in the sense of a “moral motive power,” can ever be reached
| through Spiritualism alone, which shall rival this religion
| of Christ ;* if by religion we understand according to the
! meaning of the word “ binding influence.” That character
| stands for ever the highest by mortal conceivable, and our
| moral sense demands nothing more noble, though it is
| Spiritualism alone that can teach us the full value of
| religion. Thus we reach confidently the position that the
I Christian ages reached trustingly; and a faith, I believe,
ij may be ours that shall add to unswerving principles of
| moral rectitude, a religion in which the presence of the
| Son and of His angels shall be as certain to the intellect
j as inspiring to the heart. When this becomes manifest,
j we shall reverse our present process of adoring the lower
j and measuring the higher, and with invincible .sword in
| our hands go forth to do surer battle against selfish
j jugglery, political economy, scientific materialism, and
I other infernal “ opinions” that make our seers dread for
! us conditions of lasting damnation rather than diseases in
I the process of evolution.
j Eisenach, Aug. 27th, 1878.
| * I assume that religion of some sort is a necessity of the human heart, to whom and
< with what cords is the only question.—J. A. 0.
Sept. 13, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
129
THE WIND’S VOICE.
Oh, sad 'wind, all sweeping in gusts o’er the moorland,
Then whispering through Winter’s hare trees ;
How mournful thy voice in the green balmy Summer,
Like a sigh midst the warm-scented breeze.
Oh, wild wind, why echoes such drear, plaintive music
Like tones between love and despair ?
Are the voices of angels who float round this planet
Thus borne through the clear summer air ?.
Those bright ones glide near us soft noontide and evening,
As of old one may still be our guest;
They guard through the darkness of midnight our sleeping
And soothe weary pilgrims to rest.
The angels oft tread with us life’s fading valley,
Helping mortals to watch and to pray;
Methinks the sad wind the lone voice of their weeping,
When creatures of dust fall away.
Oh, wild wind, I hear it revealed in thy wailing,
The sorrow of sins weary doom ;
I listen—a voice full of pity makes answer—
“ Repent! still in heaven there is room.”
Alice Worthington.
(Eurmponnence.
[ Great freedom is offered to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.']  
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—It is one of the drawbacks to the very superior phase of
mediumship developed in Mr. Fletcher, that the tests given through him
are often of such a personal and sometimes sacred character that
those who receive them shrink from giving publicity to evidence
which is of importance to the cause of Spiritualism. I have deter¬
mined to some extent to break through the reserve which is so natural
to us, and, for the sake of others, to publish an account of one or two
seances given by him to my sister and myself.
In the early autumn of last year we had the misfortune to lose our
eldest sister, and owing to a singular dream of one of my sisters, I had a
strong impression to try if any communications could be obtained from
her through a trustworthy medium. It was a first attempt, because
although I had read much on Spiritualism, I had no practical experi¬
ence of it, and only selected Mr. Fletcher from the recommendation of
Mr. Burns, to whom I wrote for information on this point. A visit of
my sister’s to London soon gave her the opportunity of having a
personal interview with him, and I need scarcely say he was a complete
stranger to us. The appointment was indeed made by telegram; the
first seance took place Oct. 10,1877, and another a few days afterwards.
My sister 0   sent me a complete record of them on the same days
on which they were given, and I need hardly say how much we were
impressed by the accounts sent us. After Mr. Fletcher had been
entranced, the name of my sister E ,* who had passed into spirit
life, was correctly given, and she was accurately described, even to a
peculiar mark on her face, and to the smallness of her hands, all of
which references furnished additional proofs of her identity. Of the
latter “ they are my strong point,” was Winona’s message, and it was a
characteristic phrase. She used to wear sixes in gloves, when the
sizes were made smaller than they are now; in fact, a child’s size. The
communicant then described her illness most correctly through the con¬
trolling spirit, adding that nothing could have saved her, although the
doctors did not understand it; and she wished us to know this, which
I may state was a complete answer to our own troubled speculations as
to whether her life might not have been spared by an earlier diagnosis
of her case. Our dear sister told us she did not know she was leaving
earth; but she first became aware that she had passed through the
change of death by seeing her own lifeless body when someone came
into the room with a lighted candle, and which, I conclude, restored
her consciousness. She had passed away at night. She also alluded
in a very striking way to a medical consultation next morning, and to
her leaving her husband on earth to find herself in the arms of our
father, who had been many years in spirit life. She then told C 
she was constantly with us, and that if we would hold seances at home
she could communicate with us; that I was a writing medium, but not
a strong one unless I could write in trance; and also that my youngest
sister F  was likewise a medium, but would not be developed for
reasons which she gave, and which have since been verified. My
sister E ’s husband was also mentioned by name, and she said
she was aware her rooms had been kept just as they were in
her life ; touching messages were delivered concerning him, and her
own presence with him still, as well as directions about some legal
matters which she was anxious should be arranged. She said the ring
C wore was hers, that it was a great help, and she described locks
of her hair we had, and how we kept them, just as it all was. These
she wished us to wear to bring her in closer rapport with us. The
contents of a small box, which was securely fastened, containing hair, a
double eyeglass, and old-fashioned silk purse with rings, &c., were
correctly given by Winona, who, however, drew the eyeglasses, and with
regard to the purse, said there was something in the box connected with
money. Probably she had never seen a similar one before, and did not
recognise it as a purse. Winona gave some characteristic messages
from my father; our brother was spoken of by name, and his character
correctly alluded to. The name of an old servant of ours was also
* Readers will kindly excuse my not giving names in full.—S. E. G.
I given, her attachment to our family described ; and Winona wrote my
brother’s name, as well as a brief message from our sister, signed with
her name ; another (also from the latter) to my sister F ■, addressing
her by name, and signed with two of her names; and a third to her
husband, in which his name was also given, her death mentioned also,
and her pleasure in seeing everything kept as before, and this was
signed with/bur names—two Christian and her married name, as well
as our name. These papers are all in my possession. Winona also
told my sister C that she was aware she was going to see a young
lady who was very ill, whose Christian name she also mentioned, which
was perfectly correct. She said she would recover and become quite
well, and the prophecy has been verified, although at the time it was
considered exceedingly doubtful. My sister was most particular not to
mention any names, and the communications were given spontaneously.
On Mr. Fletcher’s awaking from his trance, his clairvoyant power in
the normal condition was made evident. In answer to the question if
he could see any relations of our cousins who were waiting in the room
below, he said, “ I see that a spirit called W is here ; he has not
been in spirit-life very long. He sends” (here the name was shortened
into the familiar abbreviation used by his family) “ W ’s love to all,
and you must tell them to try and communicate with him.” He also
described his mother (who was deeply attached to her son) as having
her arms round him. He saw the spirit stretch out his hands to his
two sisters after he entered the room downstairs. All was correct. My
youngest sister sent a message of inquiry, and Mr. Fletcher said he
hoped to obtain a reply. Some little time afterwards it was sent to us.
| I must mention that we had after this just commenced some stances at
I home. The reply addressed my sister by name, and the writer
| mentioned, with the same convincing ease, her own presence at our
| seances, and her unsuccessful efforts to communicate with us. The name
of her husband was given; also that of a cousin on earth; and a cir¬
cumstance was alluded to which had prevented her brother in spirit-life
communicating with his sister; it was signed, “ Your sister, E .”
At least half-a-dozen tests were given in this brief letter, and my mind
was convinced and my heart comforted by the proof which had been
bestowed on us of the continued existence and love of those who have
indeed only “ gone before.”
Our seances at home were continued for a brief period, 'which was
sufficiently long, however, to partly develop me as a writing medium,—
a result my mind had certainly not influenced, as I had interpreted the
statement entirely in the sense of assistance by inspiration in some
previous slight attempts at literary work. As soon as my astonishment
had subsided, and the first trying mistakes and difficulties had been got
over, my father and sister, and occasionally others, were able, at all
events, to write comforting and beautiful messages of such a character
as a Christian man or woman might thankfully receive as an added
testimony to the reality of the unseen world, and the truth of the words
| of Him whose divine mission on earth is, I humbly conceive, as far
from ended as it is but little comprehended by man.
I now turn to my own seances with Mr. Fletcher, two of which took
place in the spring of this year. While waiting in the dining-room,
Winona wrote through me, and I told him she was doing so. He said:
“ She writes a large round hand,” which was precisely the writing
before me, although, of course, I had known nothing about it. I regret
being unable to give as many details concerning these seances as the
previous ones ; but, while withholding many tests, on my own account
and that of others, I may say that Winona mentioned three names
without any assistance from me, and that she referred to family inci-
| dents and my own life in such a way as to assure me my spirit friends
were communicating through her. She mentioned my mother’s illness,
| and pointed out the affected place on her medium’s breast. She spoke
i of my brother in many ways correctly, as well as of some friends of ours
| “ in a hot country !” which she described too well for me to fail at once
to identify it and them with the facts. She made several prophecies,
three or four of which have already been verified, and repeated a
message from my sister (who was, she said, standing close to me), which
| I can only say was to me a most complete demonstration of her presence.
| Winona also alluded so truthfully to my life and friends, and threw so
much light on a great deal which had caused me years of trouble and
! anxiety, that I can hardly overrate the comfort I received on these
| occasions. This spirit, whose own brief life-history is so touching, and
full of the evidences of a noble nature, addressed me in words full of
| hope and tenderness; and, little as it may interest others, I cannot
[ refrain from alluding to these higher uses of her medium’s power, to
. v | show that Spirit communications are a divine gift, of such a nature as
j \ | the worldly and the seekers for the marvellous little dream,
f > In conclusion, I will relate the following little incident. A short time
j c j ago I wished to obtain a copy of The Banner of Light of July 27th,
| \ i containing an account by Mr. Fletcher (partly copied in The Medium)
> of the photograph taken of “ Lillie Gordon ” in daylight, and very soon
I (i after I received a copy from him, though it is now an old paper. I
i j i never mentioned it, or its contents, to him. Winona took the earliest
|; | opportunity of writing, “ My medium has sent the paper to you because
i (| you wished it. You could not get it, so I put it in his mind.—Winona.”
I \ | She still uses occasionally un-English expressions, though she speaks
i) | and writes well, and her medium stated that at first she could hardly
i (i talk in our language at all. Throughout I have spoken of Winona as
j) | the active agent in the communications received from Mr. Fletcher, and
|)! ample proofs of her separate identity have been given to me, as well as
| (| her truthfulness and untiring endeavours to give his visitors those tests
!; | which sometimes the unfavourable conditions they bring do so much to
i < i defeat. Few spirits have at other times, however, been able to speak so
hi successfully through their mediums as she has through hers, and no one
j j can listen to Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher’s account of their extraordinary
I (| experiences of spirit-power—dating back from the former’s childhood—
! 11 without thinking with them that it is strange how the existence of our
* > * spirit friends can ever be doubted. S. E. Gay.
130
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 13,1878.
7\ 1
THE INTERLINKED RINGS. | (
Sir,—In The Spiritualist, 30th inst., I find this passage, in reference | j |
to the fact that the wooden interlinked ring in the possession of Mr. ) (
Gillis parted company with the ivory ring on being soaked in water, j; j
“ Here, then, seems to be evidence of a most heartless fraud practised | j j
by one or more of the four mediums upon Mr. Gillis, who had treated j (
them most kindly. Nevertheless, uncertainty is placed upon this view j)
of the case,” &c. I (
I submit, first, that there is no evidence whatever of fraud; second, j >
that even if there were fraud, there is no evidence that the fraud was j)
committed by any of the four mediums present. j j j
If a fraud was committed, the probability is that spirits, who can i j j
work better in the dark than in the light, were the culprits. ! \
The wooden ring was taken impromptu from a set of rings of an j ( j
ordinary piece of furniture, and Mr. Reimers has shown, by the testi- j j
mony of the trade, that one ring in ten is a broken and glued ring. j t
That a wooden ring could be broken and glued so perfectly in the j ( ]
dark as to escape minute investigation as to its fracture is extremely | j
improbable. Further, I know of no glue which could be so quickly j ( |
dried as to form a strong adhesion in the short space of time the seance i (
lasted, before the interlinked rings were examined. Such experiments j j
should, of course, be performed with the utmost care. The wooden i j
rings used should be first boiled, so as to dissolve any possible gluing, | (
and it should be ascertained whether there is any kind of glue which i j
can resist boiling. After this test the rings should be privately i ]
marked ; and, lastly, after the interlinking, the rings should be sub- ! j
mitted to microscopic investigation, and again to boiling water. j ) j
There exists no doubt on the part of experienced Spiritualists that | ( !
matter has passed through matter. The interlinking of two rings is, j { !
therefore, a phenomenon to be expected ; and I venture to predict that j M
before long it will become a demonstrated fact. M. D. (
Saltburn-by-the-Sea. j j
Sir,—In answer to Dr. C. Blake’s question, I may state that the j j
common curtain ring was one of those supplied for the same experiment I
a long time ago by Mr. Sourbutt, and used by Mr. Williams and Mr. i |
Herne. I saw them often in their rooms, and the history of that par- j (
ticular onein Mr. Gillis’s case would, to my own belief, reveal simply i j
the fact of its having been glued before it was purchased by Mr. Sour- ! ) j
butt. The time of holding the rings on Peter’s recommendation we did | ( i
not ascertain, but it probably was about fifteen seconds. If imagina- ] j !
tion inclines towards the possibility of doing the joining on the spot, j ) |
my description of the arrangement of sitters and conditions will con- ! ( i
siderably reduce its scope and push the question—How and by whom ? i j
On my right sat Mrs. Herne, then Herr Gillis, Mr. Herne, Mr. |j
Williams, Mr. Rita, and myself. Our constant joining of hands, or at j j
least remaining on our seats, was uninterruptedly confirmed by our talk- j [
ing, the voices coming always from the same spot, a feature preserved i (
through all the sittings. From the left side, rather high above Mr. i (
Rita’s head, came Peter’s hand, the direction of the points of his fingers !)
and his well-known voice justifying my impression. Permit me, in i j
conclusion, to say that the only hope for satisfactory explanation lies in j j j
the repetition of the experiment, so sincerely and eagerly desired by all i \ j
the mediums. C. Reimers. I ( j
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—In the interest of all who suffer, I trust you will allow me to
add to the list of cures by Mr. Omerin lately made public in your
esteemed journal, a few details of my own experience.
It was during the month of June last year that, whilst in the passage
of my house, I was suddenly seized with a severe attack of apoplexy,
and, to quote Macaulay, “fell, as fall the dead.”
Alarmed by my fall, my wife rushed to my assistance ; and whilst she
was trying to revive my insensible form, and in the deepest affliction,
supposing me dead, Mr. Omerin most fortunately returned home.
Acquainted with what had occurred, he very quietly calmed my wife,
and damping his hands with water, he proceeded to place them over my
head. This imposition of his hands was all he did, but its effect was
simply marvellous. Within seven minutes my senses were restored, and
I was sitting on a chair in the next room. For these facts both I and
my wife can vouch, and are at all times happy to make them widely
known, believing that the singular power possessed by Mr. Omerin, if
more widely known, might be the means of saving many a life now
lost.—I am, sir, yours very truly, James Whitnall.
5, Northumberland-street, Strand, London, August 10, 1878.
The Countess of Caithness, authoress of Serious Letters to Serious
Friends, left London for Paris yesterday ; she was accompanied by the
Earl of Caithness, who is President of one of the English juries at the
Paris Exhibition, by direct invitation of the Prince of Wales. Mr.
Alexander Calder, President of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, will leave London for Paris to-day, and Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory reached the latter city last week. Miss Ottley is at Versailles.
Mr. W. J. Colville will deliver an inspirational address and
poem, on subjects to be chosen by the audience, at Langham Hall,
43, Great Portland-street, W., this evening, Friday, September 13th,
at eight o’clock; also on Friday, next week, September 20th, at the
same place and hour. Admission free to all parts of the house
excepting stalls ; a collection to defray expenses. Mr. Colville will
lecture in London to-morrow, at 3.30 p.m., at 38, Great Russell-street,
and on Sunday next, September 15th, at Quebec Hall, 25, Great
Quebec-street, at 3.15 p.m.; also, same day, at Doughty Hall,
14, Bedford-row, Holborn, at 7 p.m. Admission free. On Tuesday
next, September 17th, he will speak at Quebec Hall, at 8.30 p.m.
SPIRITUALISM IN PARIS.
Mr. Henry Lacroix has contributed the following details about
Spiritualism inRaris to The Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.):—
I was present at several siances held at the hall of the new or renewed
society, and was pleased to see that the programme was varied and
interesting. The speakers of both sexes displayed much elocutionary
and debative power in crossing opinions, which at times were at great
variance, but with that exquisite taste and politeness so familiar to the
French, the clashing was all the while pleasing to witness. These
meetings are presided over by M. Leymarie, who acquits himself of the
function remarkably well. This gentleman, who suffered so severely a
few years since for the cause, by an unjust and long imprisonment, is an
ardent and intelligent labourer. His charming wife, au fait of all the
arduous duties of the charge, is ever seen, even late at night, with her
husband attending to calls made to the society or the Revue. At this
Exhibition time the number of Spiritualists from all parts of the world
that congregate here is large.
At another public seance, held in the hall of the society, which
surpassed in importance the one alluded to above, we found a thick
throng. The opening of the interesting soiree consisted in the delivery
of a lecture made by Mr. Frs. Valles, inspector-general of roads and
bridges. The subject, which was very ably handled, was a response to
the now prevailing English materialist doctrines. The lecturer’s survey
of the case was broad and comprehensive, and his exposition of the
general and minor faults of the skeleton-like doctrine, made in a highly
classical and also humorous style, was eagerly listened to and applauded
by the appreciative audience, among whom were a good number of
literary stars of Paris, who, be it said, generally endorse our views.
Among the class of the artistes also, who exert here a good and wide
influence, are many devoted Spirites. They are so many, indeed, that I
may be excused from not mentioning the names of any. One in particular,
however, should be alluded to. This lady, Mme. Ugald, a celebrated
cantatrice and author, has developed one of her pupils as
a most promising materialising medium. Spirit-hands and faces,
in full light, already make their appearance through the medial
powers of this pupil of Mrs. Ugald, whose name is Miss Claire de
Helenden. As this case is rather exceptional here, and being a van¬
guard one of a promising kind, we note it down briefly to refer to it
more at length hereafter, should our personal examination entitle us
to do so. The Count de Bullet, residing at the Hotel de 1’Athenee, with
his engaged materialising medium, Firman, devotes a good deal of his
attention to tangible productions.
The Abbe Marshall, formerly a priest of the Romish Church, and
who, with Father Hyacinthe Loison, established the new church at
Geneva, Switzerland, is a frequent visitor at the Psychological Society.
I heard him speak there, and was at once convinced, of what I had been
told of him, that his oratorical power was great, and gushed under the
direction of a trained mind with telling effect. This ex-priest, who
differed with Father Hyacinthe as to the marriage of priests, is now in
our ranks, and is called to do a mighty work in the cause ; he has lately
published two important works, L'Esprit Consolateur—the Consoling
Spirit—and The Souvenirs of a Missionary. Among the other notable
and representative men who aid and adorn the society, I might cite
the following: Mr. Charles Fauvety, editor in chief of The Secular
Religion (JLa Religion Ldique'), which first-class paper discusses most
ably our doctrine, and exerts a wide influence here and abroad, or over
the Continent, especially among the learned ; Mr. de Bonnemere, a dis¬
tinguished historian and writer in the above-named paper; M. le Baron
du Potet, the world-wide known mesmerist, who now, aged eighty-four,
is as fresh and rosy as at forty ; Mr. Godin, the great manufacturer and
philanthropist of the Familistere de Guise, of the department of 1’Aisne,
who employs 3,000 working hands, and whose name and works must
be familiar to your readers, as a long article was published by an
American lady medium, a year or so ago, on that subject in the
Banner; Mr. Barrow, engineer-in-chief of the Eastern Railway;
Mr. Chas. Lomon, dramatic author, who, under the inspiration of his
spirit brother, composed a highly esteemed piece, which is played at the
leading theatre, le Theatre Franqais ; Eugene Nus, a dramatic author
of note, and who also wrote Les Grands Mysteres, or the Great
Mysteries, which work is classed at the head of French Spiritualistic
productions, and drew from the press in general the most flattering
eulogiums; Rene Cailld, one of the three engineers engaged on the
great work of the Suez Canal.
Miss Huet, 173, St. Honor§-street, is a leading medium of Paris,
through whose means many have been made “ whole,” or converted to
our demonstrated faith. Miss Huet has for many years exercised her
faculty as a rapping medium, and her salon is often found filled with
people from foreign countries bearing titled names, and eager to peep
behind the mysterious veil. This lady is conversant with the English
language, and extends a warm hand to all American visitors.
In the main hall of the Psychological Society are exhibited several
large and beautifully-executed drawings, due to tbe inexperienced pencil
of a medium of Marseilles, a blacksmith, called Fabre, whose hand was
controlled by Raphael. One of these much-admired tableaux is a life-
size head of Christ, and two others represent battles of Alexander the
Great. These works have received the highest praises from the critical
artists of Paris, and have been photographed in different sizes. It has
been claimed that the medium Fabre is the reincarnated spirit of
Benvenuto Cellini, and it is further said that several characteristics of
the celebrated Italian artist, engraver, chaser, and jeweller are noticeable
in this medium. Be it as it may, we cannot vouch for it either way.
There is, however, hero a Greek drawing-medium named Hugo d’Alesi,
who produces in semi-darkness paintings and drawings, some of which
are very fine. As this person is up early and late at his work as painter,
he can give but very little time to his remarkable mediumship. His
principal control js an Italian painter, who was called Donato.
Sept. 13, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
131
The Zouave Jacob, who some years since created & furore among the
Parisians by his mediumistic cures, now lives at Passy, a suburb of
Paris, 46, Serpentini-street, where he still attempts to heal, but with
less success than heretofore we are told. There are many mesmerists
here who work in aid of the afflicted, and give experimental seances to
the public now and then. I assisted at one of these seances held at the
Psychological Society’s hall, and saw some feats of power that were
curious and interesting.
REMARKABLE PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIENCE OF A
LAWYER.
In' the last number of The Psychological Pevieio, Mr. A. E. Newton
gives the following narrative :—
While residing, a few years since, in the city of Washington, U.S.A.,
the writer made the acquaintance of Mr. M , a gentleman who at
the time held an important official position in the municipal govern¬
ment of that city, and who subsequently was appointed by the Presi¬
dent to a still more responsible office under the general government.
No one acquainted with him would question his integrity in any respect.
His recent decease leaves me at liberty to relate an incident in his
personal experience which he once intrusted to me in confidence while
officially associated with him.
Mr. M  was no believer in modern Spiritualism, and when he
first learned that I was one, he took occasion to express strongly his
regret and disapprobation. This was based chiefly on religious
grounds, as he believed Spiritualism to be inimical to the religion of
the New Testament.
I assured him that I entertained quite a different view of the matter,
and he dropped the subject as one he did not understand. Shortly
afterwards, however, he came to me confidentially, and said he had
thought that perhaps I, being a Spiritualist, might be able to explain
to him a singular experience which he once had, and which
had always been a puzzle to him. He had kept it a profound
secret, and did not wish me to communicate it to any of his official
associates.
He then proceeded to state that when a young man he had some¬
times indulged in the use of intoxicating liquors, and they had a
peculiar effect upon him. A small quantity drank would result in a
total loss of consciousness, sometimes continuing for several days, and
when he came to himself he would learn that he had been “ on a
spree,” and often had done many foolish things, greatly to the annoy¬
ance of his friends and his own poignant shame. He therefore found
it necessary to abstain wholly from the use of such drinks, and he made
it a point to do so.
He had studied for the legal profession, and when his preparations
were completed he removed to one of the new north-western States,
and “ hung out his shingle ” in a thriving village, the country seat of
a newly-settled region.
Several important cases in litigation, were soon entrusted to his
care, involving the ownership of many thousand dollars’ worth of
property, and he was busily engaged in preparing for the approaching
session of the Court, at which he was to make his debut as an attorney
and advocate, and when his professional standing would be determined
by success or failure.
One morning, a day or two before the court was to open, he found
himself feeling very nervous and ill from overwork and anxiety—
quite unfit to attend to business. Under the pressure of the occasion,
and despite of his resolution of abstinence, he thought he would step
across the way to the tavern and brace himself up with a small
potation of brandy. He recollected purchasing and swallowing the
draught, but from that moment all was blank until he suddenly awoke
to consciousness, sitting in his own office. Here he noticed such
changes about him as suggested that some time had elapsed since his
last recollection.
A fearful suspicion at once flashed upon his mind. A friend was
sitting in the office with him engaged in reading. Controlling his
emotions, he carelessly asked, “What day of the week is it?” The
answer gave confirmation to his dreadful suspicion. Several days had
passed, to which he had been entirely oblivious, probably on a drunken
spree. The session of Court was over—the important business entrusted
to him had been neglected—his reputation was ruined, and his high
hopes of professional success all blasted in the bud ! These were the
thoughts that rushed at once through his mind.
But he said nothing, and after ruminating for a while over this
gloomy state of affairs, he concluded he would go to the Clerk of the
Court, learn the worst, and obtain some papers he had deposited with
that official. As he entered the clerk’s office, that gentleman, to his
great astonishment, at once addressed him with the warmest congratu¬
lations on the brilliant debut he had made at the bar—complimenting
him on the masterly manner in which he had conducted his cases, and
the success he had won ! “ Why,” said he, “ you presented your suits
with all the confidence and skill of an experienced practitioner, and
you argued them with an ability that received the highest compliments
of the judge.” M kept his own counsel, but by skilful questioning
ascertained that he had appeared in Court at the proper time, conducted
his business with all due formality, and had actually gained every suitj
as was proven by the papers which the clerk placed in his hands!
“ Yet,” said he, “ I was utterly oblivious, and have been to this day, of
everything that occurred during those days 1 ”
“ Now,” said Mr. M to me, after finishing the story, “how do
you account for all that ? ”
I replied that Spiritualism furnished a ready solution for all such
puzzling experiences, inexplicable as they are by any other system of
philosophy. “ Doubtless,” said I, “ some kind departed friend of yours
of the legal profession, seeing your exigency, and finding your organisms
in a condition to be controlled—consequent no doubt in part upon the
effect of the liquor imbibed (for I have learned that alcoholic beverages
do often facilitate control by disembodied spirits, though generally,
so far as I have observed, those of a low class, and for no good purpose)
—doubtless some friendly and capable spirit took possession of your
body, shutting off your consciousness, as is often done in the trance
condition, and held you under this control uninterruptedly until he
had carried you through the emergency, transacting your business
better, perhaps, than you could have done yourself.”
THE CHARACTER OF THE EXHIBITOR OF
“ EVERETTISM.”
(From the “ Poston Sunday Herald?’)
A sad story of desertion comes from Lynn. George Everett Avery
is one of the actors in the affair. He is the son of Asa and Mary
Avery, of No. 1.4, Carnes-street, West Lynn, who bear an excellent
reputation among their acquaintances. In 1870 George was married to
Miss Alice A. Stevens, whose parents belonged to Portsmouth, N.H.,
where she was born; she is at the present time twenty-five years of
age. The Rev; Mr. Winkey, of Boston, performed the marriage cere¬
mony. A week after their marriage Avery stole 125 dols. from his
employer, John M. Way, in whose office in Boston he was engaged in
studying law, and shortly thereafter left for Canada. He took his wife
with him, and hid from her all knowledge of his thievish transaction.
They remained in the provinces for a short time, when he returned to
Boston, after which they lived in various cities and towns in New Eng¬
land until 1875, when he and his wife went to Lynn for the purpose of
residing in the family of his parents. Besides working for Mr. Way,
Avery has been employed in the offices of General John L. Swift, the
Hon. John de Long, and others in Boston. Three years ago, at the
time he took his wife to live with his parents in Lynn, he became
interested in an “ expose of Spiritualism,’’ his aunt, Mme. Boutelle,
of Boston, being a medium, and through her he engaged in the business.
He started out on the road from Boston with a show which he called
“ Everettism,” deriving said name from his “interior cognomen.”
Before starting out it was noticed that he was quite intimate with a loose
character named Willis, and as he wished the services of a female assistant
to “ throw about spirit flowers, pianos, &c.,”'she readily consented to
go.with him. From the day he left on his tour for the exposing of
Spiritualism until the present time he has seen his lawful wife only
twice, and he did not communicate with her or contribute toward her
welfare in the least. She, true to him, did not once think that he
was untrue to her, and laboured early and late toward the support of
his mother and father, engaging herself in a large number of minor pur¬
suits, which could in the least prove remunerative. She would ask
what had become of him, but the father and mother did not wish to
break the news to her that her husband was unfaithful. The silence
worked upon her terribly, and at certain periods she would experience
severe melancholy fits. On the 3rd of March last Avery gave an exhi¬
bition in Lynn, and sent for his father and mother to visit the hall, as
he did not wish to come to the house, not wanting to see his wife. The
news got to his wife that he was registering himself as the husband of
the Willis woman at the several hotels where they put up, and this
information gave a very severe shock to her nervous system. Weeks
passed, then months, and as time wore on, she seemingly became more
and more afflicted, and about a week since it was thought that she was
insane, caused by constant worry. A Herald reporter visited her home
yesterday, and found that she was in a very bad condition, raving con¬
stantly, and giving utterance to the most nonsensical assertions in regard
to the flight of her husband. One day last week, Everett being told that
his lawful wife was insane, he went to the house, and upon her
making toward him he roughly pushed her away, stating at the same
time that “he had not the least regard for her.” Doctors Ahearne and
McArthur have examined the woman, and adjudged her insane,
signing the papers yesterday, and it is probable that she will be taken
to the asylum at Danvers to-morrow. It is stated by those who pre¬
tend to know that Avery is married to the Willis woman, and if that
is so it is wondered at that he has not yet been arrested on the charge.
The Lynn police have investigated the case, and find that all the
evidence lies in Boston, and, that being the case, undoubtedly officers in
that city will look up the matter, which certainly bears all evidences of
cruelty, and which calls for the punishment of Avery.
Spiritualistic Meetings at Hackney.—Sunday evening services
are held weekly at 6, Field Yiew-terrace, London-fields, in connection
with Spiritualism, under the management of Mr. J. R. Williams;
Mr. Armbee and other friends assist. Last Sunday evening Mr.
Williams said that he appreciated good preaching, and wished to hear
it; but the local ministers so abused Spiritualists, and the truths of
spirit communion, although the Bible was full of the latter, that he felt
the holding by Spiritualists of homely services of their own to be
better than attending local places of worship.
The Liverpool Psychological Society.—Next Sunday the Liver¬
pool Psychological Society removes to a new place of meeting, Perth-
street Hall, Perth-street, West Derby-road, and Mr. Morse will preside
at the opening services, at 11 a.m. and 6.30 p.m. The hall has been
generously built by one of the trustees of the Society, Mr. John Chap¬
man, he having defrayed all expenses of building. The hall is, how¬
ever, only intended, we are informed, as a temporary place of meeting,
as the Society hopes ere long to build a larger hall, and nearer to the
town. The Society has formed a free lending library, and established
a bookstall. The librarian writes that any friends having spiritual
papers, magazines, or books, for which they have no use, should send
them to Liverpool for the library and for free distribution.
132
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 13, 1878.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS, j
MEETING OP THE COUNCIL. | j
Last Tuesday night, at the ordinary monthly meeting of the Council j j
of the British National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. Alexander j (
Calder, president, occupied the chair. The other members present were I)
Mr. Morell Theobald, Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. R. A. March, |j
Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Cornelius Pearson, Herr Christian Reimers, Mr. ] (
R. Pearce, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Miss Houghton, Mr. E. T. Bennett, ! /
Mr. A. Joy, and Mr. Harrison. j (
Mr. Morell Theobald read the report of the Finance Committee, j | I
which announced a balance in hand of £33 17s. 7d., recommended pay- j / |
ments to the extent of £22 6s. 2d., and estimated the outstanding j(
liabilities of the Association at £5. It stated that next month the ij
amount in hand would probably be less than that due to be paid, so j)
recommended the members who were in arrear, to pay up their sub- j (
scriptions without delay. j |
In answer to a question, the Secretary stated that there were about fifty j
members on the list of those in arrear. i
Preliminary arrangements about the expenditure of a proposed )
anonymous contribution of £50 a year to the Association, were referred {|
to the General Purposes Committee for completion. (
A letter from Mr. W. C. Denovan, of Sandhurst, Australia, was read, j /
thanking the Association for his election as an honorary member. The j (
Rev. J. Tyerman (California) wrote, announcing his intention of visit- j j
ing England in the course of next year. Other letters were also read. j |
Mr. Cornelius Pearson proposed and Mrs. Fitz-Gerald seconded a j j
vote of thanks to Mr. Blackburn for his generous gift of self-recording j j
weighing apparatus to the Association. This was passed unanimously I)
with acclamation. j (
Mr. Joy proposed, Mr, Theobald seconded, and Mr. Rogers sup- j >
ported— I (
That it is inexpedient that the proceedings of committees appointed by the i)
Council bo open for the inspection of any person not a member of the Council, )
except by permission of the Council. I j
Mr. Harrison moved an amendment— I
That it is expedient that the proceedings of committees appointed by the i (
Council be open to the inspection of all the members of the Association. j
This was not seconded, and the original resolution was carried, with j
one dissentient. .1
Mr. E. T. Bennett moved— * j
That it be considered a breach of privilege on the part of any member of j j
the Association to make public comments and criticisms on the proceedings ] )
of its committees, and on the action of individual members on those com- j (
mittees, except as they are brought before the Council by their own reports or j (
otherwise. j |
This was seconded by Miss Houghton, and supported by Mr. Theo¬
bald and Mr. March. i j
Mr. Harrison moved an amendment— j (
That this Council, being responsible to its constituents for the transactions I )
of its committees, repudiates all attempts to cut off any of those proceedings ] (
from its own knowledge by allowing committees to withhold any of their ! (
business, and recognises the established principle in public life that the full j )
publishing of proceedings, and the avoidance of secrecy, are necessary in all j j
bodies which claim the support of intelligent members. j /
He said that he moved this amendment partly because committees j
had entered official business on their minutes which they had not brought j (
before the Council. That he wanted the broad light of day to Ml j
upon all business transacted, and considered that any secrecy about ]
work done would sacrifice the rights of private members, would aggran- ! (
dise power into the hands of the Council, and would be a just argument j )
against having an organisation in Spiritualism. j <
The amendment was not seconded, and the original resolution was I )
carried, with one dissentient. j
Mr. Harrison moved— j \
That the side on which each member of Council votes on all divisions at ■ j ( i
Council meetings be recorded and published in the Proceedings of the Asso- j j
ciation. ).
He said that of late at only one or two divisions in a year had the i \
names been recorded, and then not published in the Proceedings; it ] |
was a farce for a member of Council to ask the support of his consti- | /
tuents at an annual election, when the information how he had voted (
throughout the year had been kept back from the general members. )
Mr. Joy seconded this, pro formd. • l
Mr. Dawson Rogers said that the plan was impracticable, and that (
by the present rules the votes might be recorded at any time, if any )
member of Council asked for it to be done. j (
Miss Houghton and Mr. March spoke against the resolution, and j >
nearly everybody present but the mover and seconder voted against it. i j
Mr. Harrison said that he moved in the interest of private members— j
That the side on which each member of a committee votes at every division j (
of a committee be recorded in the minutes ; that the minutes of all committee i j
meetings be open to inspection, for public or other purposes, by any member ! )
of the Association; and that the votes at divisions of committees shall be j (
published in the Proceedings of the Association, whenever, at the discretion ! (
of the chairman of a committee, they shall be deemed of sufficient public j j
importance. * j j
This not seconded. I ( j
Mr. Harrison next moved— i j j
That a stock account of the property belonging to the Association be kept, I ) |
and presented monthly to the Finance Committee; that it shall show all i 5 j
changes in the stock during each month, and the causes thereof; and that the ] j j
Finance Committee shall report monthly the value of the stock belonging to ! ( I
the Association. j ) j
He said that all the public companies whose method of working he knew i \ i
anything about kept an inventory of their property, and were able to
trace from month to month all losses, breakages, and additions.
Mr. Bennett seconded this resolution; Mr. March, Miss Houghton,
and others spoke against it; finally, it was referred to the General
Purposes Committee.
Mr. Harrison gave notice that, in furtherance of the principle which
he had been advocating all the evening, that the private members
should know all the proceedings of the managers of a public body, and
that the subordinates of that body should have no power to conceal any of
their work from their superior officers, he would move at the next
meeting—
That the minutes of all committee meetings held during the intervals
between Council meetings be read in full by the secretary to the Association
at the first Council meeting after they have been passed, and be of none effect
and not authorised, until they are both received and adopted by the Council.
Mr. Joy said that he would second that.
The proceedings then closed.
THE REV. DR. LEE ON SPIRITUALISM.
Last Sunday evening the anniversary services of the “ Association
for the Promotion of the Union of Christendom ” took place at
All Saints’ Church, Lambeth, and the sermon (after an unusually
hearty service, which was joined in by the members of the various
Christian denominations present) was preached by the Rev. Frederick
George Lee, D.C.L., F.S.A., vicar. He spoke of the divisions and
disunions among the various sects of Christians, who did not fulfil the
precept of their Founder that “they might be one,” and said that the
spread of intellect, even in an age which had abolished God, had
tended to make some of those who held essential doctrines of
Christianity nearer to and more harmonious with each other. He
added that present English society, though it was not in the miserable
condition it was five or six years ago, and although those who then
had the reins of power had been discarded by the voice of the people—
which had on this occasion mimicked the voice of God—and would
soon go to their appointed places, yet presented four crying evils.
The first was the Public Worship Regulation Act; the second was
the filthy Divorce Act; the third was the condition of society which
led j highly intellectual people, thoughtful people, irritable people,’’ to
accept the evidences, which certainly were patent to them, of
“Spiritualism,” or, as he preferred to call it, “modern necromancy,”
and often to fall into many consequent moral obliquities; the fourth
was the Education Act, which led the parents of children, who were
able rapidly to mumble any given Bible passage, to imagine that they
had received the elements of Christian education. He implored the
members of the congregation to place themselves under the control of
their angel guardians, in order that “ they who evermore behold the
face of the Father in heaven may defend us on earth; ” and the special
service (which was entirely within the legal limits allowed in the
Church of England) concluded by a processional hymn being sung,
reminding us of the fact that
Rest comes at length ; though life be long and dreary,
The day must dawn, and darksome night be past.
All journeys end in welcomes to the weary,
And heaven, the heart’s true home, will come at last.
Dr. F. G. Lee, who is the author of Glimpses of the Supernatural, is
by no means a Ritualist in the vulgar acceptation of the word. A
correspondent says: “ He represents perhaps the school of Caroline
doctors who have always been faithful to the memory of the past glories
of England under its lawful kings.”
To Readers of “.The Spiritualist.’’—From to-day, until Saturday
next week, all communications intended for publication in The
Spiritualist should be posted direct to Mr. W. H. Harrison, 7, Rue de
Lille, Paris, instead of to either of the London offices of The Spirit¬
ualist. Orders for newspapers and books may be addressed to M The
Manager,’’ at 38, Great Russell-street, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A. ;
Author of Mill and Garlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Revieui,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Sept. 13, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST
iii
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.'
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s!
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals twere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratiyes
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that, if ever interplanetary com-
mumcatiou should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . •
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. »>HI. „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ .
The Thinker. ..V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . •
Penetralia; Containing fiarmonial Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
.60
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
, 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 5 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Thb Spxeitualist Newspaper , .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind!; or, A Voice from the G anges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the.Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D.,'LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Gongestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Oolby and Rich, 9, Hontgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter Vi Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—^Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. II.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
"Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—^Trustworthiness of Sefership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opimons of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter xVl Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections U
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XvlII—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
camagelpaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London: W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPHY,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
synopsis op contents.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidenee of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Vos
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E.H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II. —From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III. —From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidenee of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writin t
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislinghury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The N ature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidenee of
C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E,
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory. .
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death. ” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-medmmship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A, Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe,
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLI0 MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.'
ir
-THEi SI*rRtfA5Li»
^Sept.. 13j 1878.
A
NEW ERA.
H
E
OW TO PREVENT’ DISEASEZAND JPRE-
MATTIRE DEijfl isV>NatuiIAr^slEAys;
T ORD BEAOONSPIEED jnstry.stated^the other;
J-J daythat “ theJiealth:of) the people.is really- the foundation j
upon which alUtheir happiAess and .power as- a .State depend.” 1
For the most practical nTod^bT prcwerlting desease and premature '
death see a large Illustrated4Sheet' given with ..each hottle of;
FNO’S FIJ UIX,^SAIjT-.'..The-information is -invaluable. As a;
HEALTH-GIVING”, .REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO- :
RATING'BEVERAGErdr as’fi.'Wntle laxative and tonic in the !
various forms of-ifi'diftestioii, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sjund ripe fruit). It is the best> preventive and cure for <
BillousnesSjt'Siok"Headache, Skin'Eruptions,-Impure Blood, j
Pimples op the -Fac'eV Giddiness, Fevers,'Feverishness, Feverish j
Colds, Hfental Depression, "Want1 of Appetite,'Sourness of fthe I
Stdmach,’'Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.', and'to remove the j
effedts bf Errors of eating and drinkiigi . i * 1
Nd’^^t^RUITif^AET.-^^Ariiorigs^fthe many |
jhanftyapie^-ipe^icjnpV^jgcpveriesofthepirieteenth century j
none, perhaps,Lias.adyaiiced-so, rapidlydriid;public notice f
as ENO’S 'FRUIT . SALT.*.''S'C6mpprativd% unknown
some year _or.vso jrgp, this' preparation, whioli js made .
from ripe soundtruitl'is now metwith"in“*every'c[uarter {
. of .the ;g.lppe..,-Thetgrpat^meritv,which.js el aimed Xor if is i
th^t It keeps .. the blood pure arid* the sj’sterrij perfectly 1
•'.clear,iand.' thus«takesv,awayjthe.gr,oundwork o£ mala- I
rious diseases go common,to jtowhS! and districts which
are ili-dpaihed. There" is* little doubt but tliat* thei time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood' will' be ‘ considered ' as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; hut we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and . in South America, has a largely
. increasing.,salOi*, li^fs"-[better by far than “nips,”, and
amongst the' Good’Templars—a nufnefous' community all
.■flyer the world—;]! -is recognised not \only as, a'refreShiifg
but also a's a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.'
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TE
KNOW.
JUNO’S FRUIT - SALT.—A. Gentleman writes :—
“Sincp I have..used.IJNO’S,.FRJJIT. £[P-LT.night*and i
morning, ray headaches, &6V, have left me, find this after ]
: suffering for-above twenty ygars. Ton'should make~tlns f
factfweU:knowh[”. ", V“ ,
ENO’S'■ FRUIT SALT.-:— A■ Lady,. writes
I- « Every thing,'medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least’three months before I commbheedhaking'it;! the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must 'have
succumbed before long.” •
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING' TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
: IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A'
I GENBhilL LS.XATIVE AND Tonic
, ..IN THE VARIOUS.FORMS OF INDIGESTION.^^ J
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND; RIPE
FRUIT. - a M
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit-: in’ a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is In every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which It Is.obtained. 1
In Pimples jand Blotches on the Face,-Sallowness of .the Skin,
and-Depredsion'of’ Spirits, it Is most useful, for not-the least Of its
recommendations is', its resemblance-to. frun in.tlfejnatural.way
in which it relieves- the svs'tem of effete' or.fpoisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and:its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand .when required, v Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or. foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to Its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise,  
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for-by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood-Poisons, &c.', are Prevented and Cured. It Is, in truth, a
Family Medicine -Ghest in the simplest yet most potent torm.
Ihstead’of'being lowering to the ‘system, this preparation Is, in
the highest degree,'Invigorating.- Its: effect In .relieving/thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion Is most striking.'
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of Itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover,, a'pleasant,
retreshing ape! invigorating beverage.' After’a'patient
and careful .observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great,value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the, land would be - without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C.Eno,-
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleaaed
with your FRUIT SALT. ’ I have'fully proved its great
.i..',efflcacy by its having entirely cured, me of indigestion.”—
' T/Wjb&b, Jtiri;, Tudor-road, Canterbury.
Worthy'" 6j> notice.—palpitation, of
THE HE ART,'caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called' (or,mistaken .for) Heart Disease:—
* “ On April 14T purchasedh'tiottie of-your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I-boughtit.''- I.-Jiaq suffered more
orless, since the .year 1841, frQm~paIpitatioh of -the heart,
outvery badly during the last few years. ’ The'least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night, my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation, suddenly,
ceased, and have not since returned. Outof gratitude for
tlie benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my frierids’, both in London and Yarmouth'. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the abovfe’facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please: — I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully,' ■ < - ■ ‘f W. B.‘BkCKETT,”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle' and see 'the
Capsule is marked“ENG’S FRUIT’SALT:” - Without it!
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation: TRADE’
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline; or': Fruit Powder. ‘
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s.9d. ahd,4s. 6d.
Bole Agent 'or Pam-PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX,
^ | HH J?" * ^Just^gublished.^b-i
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post.free, Crown 8voIrichljigilt, ’
pLiAZ Y* IrAiYjS'f?
TO (WXAND/PROSE I M A GI N t-: k->
VrilfrA-Tr' .Vi VII‘LIAM H. HARRISON. V
■ AmEIegarit aM Amqsing‘*Gift-BobKpf Poetical and Prose '
vf #;ft*«uiWritings,' Gravfe’fin(^Gay..f
The gilt device on the covef designedvbycFlcfrence .Claxton and the :
. Author. _
Wf' , "Si? ■ - J Al Hi'tO
■ if” Contents.
Part 1. —JUiscettcyieQMS Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
. Editor.-T-SAThe Song of the Pawnbrpker.Sri.VT^fiiPaStlef^S.-The ;
i Lay.of*thqj((I!aJ| Man.—6. .The • Poetry^of i Science, r-7 SHowi.Hadj i t
.; A1 Sha^bac.-was.Photographed. (A lette'rUrom’medjijAlfShacahac, j
: a'gehtleihah;,who*Visited London on'busines^fciriinected witbfi! a|
* Turkl’sh*Lban,*:to Ben '©ifcl^'aiifyOnieWof'.thetGbl- j
. lege'bMHowlirig DervisheiTat'Cciistahtinople.)^. The Lay orthe f
f Br6a(l-®rimmedt Hat.—9. St. rBridd’s Bay.—10.’ The Lay of , thej
MarketlGaixlener.—11.'East rFalls the Eventide.’.’—12.,;Our.Rayen. i
lv3.‘:‘MaterialisJic'/Religign.—13. The Lay of <the. Photqgigiphef.— j
. 14./ How. toTUouble-the futility of the Printing. Press.—15: The [
Song 'of,.the Mdtlier in-Law.—10. Wirbel-hewegAng'—Vj*^ PoorJMdi
Joe'!•”—185The'Hiiman"Hive.—19. The'Layiof tlie^Mace-Beafers?— t
' 20. *A* Love Song.—21.' A Yision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The ’
•tAhgeHoftSil^nOe.»- ■ 1 '• v. t <■+,.■ *.» * * ••••«» i,. „ j
; , Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, .by Anthony Wobblejaws. S 1
•I 24.’! ThePublic *Analyst.—26. General-Grant’s'Reception at Folke-[
- stone.—26.'The Rifle Corps.—27.'. Tony’s Lament.—28. The'July;
Bug.—29.' The Converted Carman. . t
Opinions of'the Press.
From TheMeaning Post.
The Morning Post, which strqngly recommends the hook In a
review, nearly a column long,'says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are hot too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
-restricts herself only to such lighter*utterances ;-;onvthe;co.n.trary, i
some[of his poems touch'on the deepest god-most .saQrqdTqeliggs;
;offlur jggnqjtnon- humanity, -. ■. . Thejuqfortunate'Ifad.ft’ s.nafnative
ofhis.adyentur.es amongst the magicians pfWhitechapel Is quite)
one of the funniest things that has been published; forftyears..*.. |
The book contains quite'■ enoughtd>,[ensure#it*a,welcome,’frdm
which}!ts'tasteful ’appearance ■will’ iiot, detra'ct,!”- Th&tM&'nihg
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ No' one can hdlp laughing
1 at them,’’-and it says that the rhymes are pitched'in it something
$ like.theisame key - as iThe Bon, QayMier.. Ballads or The] Biglow
.Papers, “ with an appreciably, successful result.” -' . . .; ,
From The Court Journal.' W t. '
.“All .are of marked-ability.. Obcasidhfilly we^flhd.yetSe of
great'beauty, showing that the author possesses the'pure poetic
<gift.’’ i ' ' *■ P* ; ■
• > From JTie Graphic, -c.' i '?>/ nUftM
- f-i “ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced ‘humpurishould
mot' fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imgmnihgs;. „ Written,
•. printed, published and reviewed by William H’rHarHson (38,'Gfeat;
/ Ru^seft-strpet);^-Both’the verses aosUthe shoii ^sayAaWjtquUy
'funny; and in some of the* lattef there’is a'Veih hoeflial satire'
which; adds piquancy to the fqn.' Th&Lap of the flew&papsr Editor t
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay'of^ the Macebearers
but'one’of the most laughable bits is the Turk’saccount of how he t
went to be photographed.”, -
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.'... Some of the metrical
legends,remind us of the wild chants that used .to bnsjung at the
meetings of>the Gannibal Cliib, some ten orfiftqen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however,'knows where to ,plant his fun, and an accu-;
rate sciehtiflc mind like his'ean niake jokes-wlth success.... To j
all who wish Jo read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a;
gift-hook, we commend The Lazy Lays." $
From The Bookseller.
“An odd hut most-entertaining .assortyrient-of: quaint andf
humorous fancies,^somedm'veifse and’others -in prose,’and all;
written Vith'a1 ,fluent;ahd''not;,unb;4'a<jefui’! pen. -The vein of:
humour, which jermeatqs tliem is gOTUin6',’'rich,'and origin’al, and:
nbtLat all ill-hal'ure'd.” B
. .... —.. ■ Frjom Nature.-j ~ mmm **
>.{‘.Scientific men and matters are intone or two cases glluded to,!
and'(the\JmprijitVhear'8 jthat the wbjk'.ls. ijtCKllShed'yA.'b.' 18771
(popularchronOlogy)*; (A.M:i 6877 (T[orquemada) [’’a.m.: 50,800,077 {
(Huxley)'.’"'W§rDeileve*’that' our 'f6ad'eiis''may!'derive a ’ little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.J’,' «■„ •-. ' i*
From The British Journal (rf-Photographyps ttti.i
“.The Lazy Lays include many admii'able pieces,’ sbme of which
are in verse and others 'in'prpse, some scientific, others social, hut
ail of them exeellerit; ^.'.Vime Aazw Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an dqjSgsionaf spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefinedCoaE had taste.”
From Ttie’Dijfylin University Magazine,
How Hadji Al Shacabg,c‘, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News,
“ Mr. W. H, Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other spiejatifle literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in- pleasant and
humorous tripod, with many scientific tollies which 'fire1 better
' latighe'd down'than gravely disputed.”
~ "From The Scotsman, r r- ... . > j
* * “In :Mr. . W.'H.‘Harrison’S'Jays andProse Imaginings'
.there iS a good deiaj Of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid’sehse.” '
From The Bradford'Daily Chronicle, i ‘
“ Good poetical dic'tion is displayed:’ Mr. Harrisomhas produced
•a most welcome-book...‘How- -Hadji al Shaeabac-was*'Photo-;
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with lattghteftv” !
From The Dundee Daily. Advertiser, f,
“ lYith such.a free and easy author it is naturally-to heexpe'eted1
that'his'siibjbcts'should'bear, some trace.of- this,.peculiar Idiosyn¬
crasy, and*ihdbed'they are astTee and eSsy &s himfielf.’; •• . The
poems are all characterised by, smo’othness and rhythmical swing.
.. ; The work is'vbry elaborately’bound in cloth and gilt.. . A
gorgeous design upon the ’cOvbr.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of tlm order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
■William H: Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining lit Its contents.. . The author is imbued
withtife.true spirit of humour,’ and amuses*hll’while, offending
;nohe.” - --
From The Western Daily Press,(Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor"tOThe London and provincial-press;'and
editor of* The Spiritualist:. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us 'of the Ingoldsby -Legends. The Lay of‘the Photographer
The- Lay of the Macebeagers, and some of The Wobblejdw Ballads.
would.hot have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter 'pobms are exquisite, and there pervade thq whole a reli-
glou^’sentiment and poetic feeling which'Will make them accepf-
able to most readers. | ■
t From the-daily Northern Wlug.lBelfast).
“ The-finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed:’ It is an admirable addition to four; not 'too' ex¬
tensive'’comic literature;' The story is "one'of'which extracts
would"notrgive, an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous,...
Thdse'who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays." •
• ft A il’p \\F\om The'jfnsfgj, Qaily'fgsi'. YO bj.,
r f Jf A curious jcollection. of verses andjprosfjessays.of, unequa 1
mersfti. A,Tftes0riou9'and--SentifeientaVver-ses-hel5n§:'4toHhe type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or'L. E.;L'.’sprodpctions.”^b -v/q ~
..p FrortPThe Kensington N&u>s. *"* 1 *
-it It is ‘{/aflterdhe mfinner 6f Barham,- Hood, *Mp^c .Twain, or any
. of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their ftay and
generation as the authors of the most serious works.* * The'Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comffi^but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of Itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great, power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and ..bojdi outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness andpatjios 'sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that mayjio'read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very'hfindS0me.|^*j*' , «*.—
, '“A.* numbe^pf f clever sketches, and poems, among the latw.r
Jbeing a''series'bf panel's entitled1 The Wobblejaw Ballads, Which
appeafed’’‘in'ftlie’columns’'ofl4this,ipap'er,''a short time'* ago,
and which fcreatedvsach'-'a*'/Mrore '. at>the itime.” *} [yV./L An
'irate member oftthejfown, Council ojficiaUy 'balled the attMtiori'-of
the May<rt‘tamkC6r^pgrtiiion‘of jFolkestdneHd’ thduburlestmes m the
<•“;Wgbblejp,w.£<zllgasi4fi>ut•fhe.Tnembegs,assembled tpyghed. at the
matter, a^g^pgbceefted tdthe next’omihess\ \The Mayonsmd that he
Sdid hoi^tmndflibiri.ypt f “ It'contairis”some^very choice poems
'and prose essays^ is Pound in clot]!-richly gilt, add has an original
design of no ordinary nferitbhrihe"coyer.’’
* Obtainable, “price. 7s. '6di, post free; at the Branch Office of the
-u v? W ‘ Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll ^ M
The second and, slightly revised and abridged edition, for
'■*'itk’qhalfty^and" size the cheapektdarge .work ever published
in thisflountry.in connection with Spiritualism.v-
^ Just published, price 5s., or ,5sv §d.t post free* or^flve .copies
,post.free*for Yls/i'iCopiessmayvAlso.beihad bjound in half
calf, with "marbled edges, price 8sX6d. per volume,'post free.
. a.--. I-* CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
.-—process for" Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or ^Mesmeric
State—It Occurs,Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the SleepA-Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain..* ,
CHAPTER.IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in|Varibus W.ays-4Striking Eiftiression of Feelings in the Look
. and .Gesiufee-^Effectof MusicA-Truth(ulnessof the SleSper—Various
• Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused*by Silent'Will;’and at a
; Distance^—Attraction Towards: the: Operator—Effect in the Waking
; State of Commands'Given in the Sleep.’.'
v ' CHAPTER'III : — Srinpathy —'Community of Sensa^ons; o
, Emotions — Danger, of Rash' Experimeilts^-Public -Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage— Sympathy 'with'the- Bystanders—Thought-
Reading^-SoufceS of Error—Medical Inthition—Sympathetic Warn-
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
[ or*Influence.
kCpAP.TBR IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Yision, without
'the['Eyes-!-Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
-‘Dlstahce^SjThpathj' and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
RetrovisibnjAntroviSiQH--.
. uHAPTERW ^Eucid^Preyision—Duration of Sleep.' etc.,1 Pre-
.idicted—Predictioii pf Changes in .thq Health or State of the Seer—
ijredictiqniof Acddqrits/aiiq'pf Eyents’ Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—rStTiking'Case ’of it-LSpontaneous Retroviaion
' and Prevision'—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and bf Pain. -
' CHAPTER ‘VI irrMeamprisiQ, EleCtro-Biotogv: Electro-Psychology
arid Hypnotism,'essentially the: same—Phenomeua of Suggestions in
ithri Conscious orAVaking State—Dr..Darliiig’sMethod'§md its’Effects
„ —Mr.,, Lewis’s>Meth0d andkits^Results—The Impressiblq State—
-** Control Eiterciseif by the* Operator—Ghfeing—Mr: 'Braid’s Hypriotism
—TKe Authpr^s^Experience—iImportallce ofPersever-ance—-The Sub¬
ject hiuit he Studied." *
^ fCH'APJERtVil:—Trance, Natural-and-ACcidental; Mesmeric—
^'Tfattce'Prcfduced“at‘'Vy ill by the Subjects—Col.'Townsend—Fakeers—
, E&titsis—Extatics not aHJlipposters—rLuminoiis Emanations—Extasis
! oftefi Predicted—M.’ Cahagnet’s' Extatics—Visions of the S >iritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
enal-Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
.. Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan-
4 ity, Magic,*Divinatioff, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
, and‘Traced, to. Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking. Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
. CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the-Phenomena Attempted or
; Suggested-»-A Force (Odyle) Universally: Diffused, Certainly Exists,
'arid*is Probably the Medium of Sympathy'and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam)
•bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
, Mqgic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
I the Future.
’ .CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt-in Mesmerism by Men of Scienc
—Due Limits of Scientific Caption—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in '/Experiments—Cause ?of- FailUt'e—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to’ be/StudehtriOpposifion to he Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep-J-Sleep Produced without, the Knowledge of th
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance'in’the Sleep—Cases-'-Perceptipn of Time
—Cases; Sir'J. Franklin’; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Cleyrg-
man, with Caaes-^Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions. ’
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary. ' '
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed . tor; the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co,, at the
Holborn PrintirigWorks, .Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom,
in the -Parish, ofjjSt.. ,An<j.rew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr;; London, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
