Beoishred as a Newspaper.
SKf) joU^]s[Si< otf ^^YdSo^OG^idS^
(SDltei toxf^ Spintwalism m $>xmi §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on'Sale at the following places :—LONDON: n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule .
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 337. (Vol. XIV.—No. 6.) LONDON: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Eontenta.
Master Rowberry’s Mediumship 81
The Clairvoyance of the Blind ...      ... 61
The11 Ignorant" Savage...   61
A Spiritualist's Funeral at Walsall ...     62
Sunday Services at the Cavendish Booms ,  62
A New Shorter Catechism  63
Apparitions of the Living. By Emily Kislingbury ... ^ ... 63
Private Seances:—Seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s—
Seance at Mr. Elgie Comer's—Seance at Mr. Hensleigh
Wedgwood's  66
The Apparition of the Bev. T, A, Buckley. By Kenneth
B. H. Mackenzie  ... 66
” Departed to the Higher Life ”   66
Remarkable Spiritual Manifestations in South Africa. By
Berks T. Hutchinson      ... 67
The Angel of Healing. (Poetry.)    68
Correspondence:—Spiritualism in Glasgow—The “Bloody
Sweat ’’—Madame Blavatsky—The Anniversary of
Spiritualism—The Religious Aspects of Spiritualism—
Lunacy Law Abuses—Croydon Board of Guardians ... 69
Spiritual Phenomena Considered by the High Court of
Appeal 71
A Retrospect ... ...* 72
Answers to Correspondents      72
Paragraphs:—A Bishop on Departed Spirits, 61; Mr. Bret
Harte in London   63
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics oj
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica-
ions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess or
Caithness;-His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre AksaKof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “ Life of Swedenborg ”j; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S, C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ((United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson jM.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the UnitedKingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-ohurchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-PhUosophical Journal Offloe.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street, San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper BranchOfflce, 88, Great Russell-street London, W.C.
APHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERISfor 1879, containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance In Woburn Street.
CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS.
The Offices of the Association will be open between the
hours of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except
Saturday, when they will be open between the hours of 10 a.m.
and 1 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR FEBRUARY, 1879.
Monday, 3rd.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
A paper will be read by Miss Kislingbury
on “ Apparitions of the Living.”
Friday, 7th.—Experimental Research Committee at
6.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 11th.—House and Offices Committee at 5 p.m.
„ ,j Soiree Committee at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 14fft, and every succeeding Friday.—Experi-
I mental Research Committee at 6.30.
Monday, 17th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kisling-
bury’s paperApparitions of the
Living.”
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman-eoad, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seatices with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following Engagements:—Hastings, Gensing Hall,
Afternoon and Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial
Society, February 4. Plymouth Mechanics’ Institute, February
12 (second time this season). Redruth Institution, February
13. Truro Institution, February 14 (second time this season).
Leamington Institute, February 25. Finchley (Church end),
February 27. Croydon Literary Institution, March 6 (second
time). Favourable terms arranged with Institutes era route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-
street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
March 12th, April 9th, May 14th, June 11th. Tickets 5s., 8s.,
2s., and Is.
N.B.—The Second Recitation of the Series will be given on
Friday, February 28, instead of Ash Wednesday, February 26.
The Religion of Spiritualism.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Will LECTURE
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
At the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer Street, W.
Admission Free.
Lecture begins at 7.30. Doors closed at 7.45.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. 4. January. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Is Immortality a Delusion ? By Epes Sargent.
II.—Sister Celeste. By J. C. Earle.
III. —Spiritual Philosophy in Relation to Death and Spirit Life.
By Rev. J. Page Hopps.
IV. —Inspiration. No. 2. By Mrs. De Morgan.
V. —Reminiscences of George Thompson. By his Daughter,
Mrs. Nosworthy,
VI.—Zetalethes, the Truthseeker. By Miss Greenfield.
VII.—The Mound-Builders. By William Denton.
VIII.—Montanism.
Materialistic Mysticism—A Geologist’s Confession—The Seat
of Evil
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C
A YOUNG GENTLEMAN will be glad of any
office, manuscript, or literary employment. Highest
references. Address A. B. C., Sherborne Lodge, Tracey-street,
Kennington-road, London.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4, t
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may he obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co. London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION,' 1878-9.
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kislinghury’s Paper.
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mrs. Ellis, “Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2.”
April 7.—Mr. Morell Theobald, “Experiences in the Home
Circle, No. 3.”
April 21.—Mr. C. C. Massey. “ On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May 5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.. “ Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ Review of the Session.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the test quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.'W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, Jrom £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms :—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, e.c.
Send for an Illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, Ac., Ac.
post free, seven stamps.
J. TURNER,
LOCKSMITH, BELLHANGER, AND GASFITTER,
Stove and Range Maker,
1, HIGH STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Every description of Patent Close Fire Kitcheners repaired
and fixed.
Hot Water, Steam, and Bath Fittings.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Souths,mpton-buildlngs, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
THE SPIRITUALIST
Feb. 7, 1879,
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Dldsbury, Manchester.
Coleman. Beniamin, 1 Bernard-villas, Unper Norwood.
Eltz-Cerald, Mrs . 19, CambHflge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond Q-> M.g.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton,
8.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdonerall,21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood Mrs.. 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C , Barrister-at-Law, Ha-scourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-plaoe, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adsbead. W P., Derby House. Belner.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F . The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, 5'rs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett. Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill. I
Binney, F A.. 24, St Ann s-square, Manchester.
Bouwick, ,1., F.R.G.S.
Chapman, John. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosiand, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, R E.
Dewe, N Fabyan, 5, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. S-. T., l.ynwood, Sonthern-bill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H . 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59. TufYiell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Rilver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton. R , 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G„ 0. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage. Sheoter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H„ 38. Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20. Deiamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hunt. Miss Hannah. 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isbam, Sir Charles. Bart. Lamport.-hsll, Northampton.
.load, G. C., Oakfleid, Wimbledon. S.W.
Lsmont, John, 199, London-road. Liverpool.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Beruers-street, W.
Msltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-=treet, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71. Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J J., F.lm Tree-terrace, Httoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Rtainton, M.A., TTnlversity College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendlsh-road, ‘Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newton. W, U, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. S, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C.. 15. Harper-street. Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., s. Blandford-square, N.W’.
Reimers. Christian, 47, Morning*on-road Regent’s-park.
Stock, gt. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford.
Theobald, Morel!, 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M.. 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Clsverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh. si, Queen Anne-et., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leedp.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman. Mrs.. 1, Orme-souare, Bayswater, W,
With all,' Miss H.. 1. The Elms. Rt. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, Rt. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W, Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq,, Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg. Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Gftldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, Rt Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
U. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fetizi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles,Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic <!o.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich £ollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy 1,
Paris.
Epos Sargent, Esq., Box 2.985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourierei, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town,South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
j. H, Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de I’Europe,
Paris.
R'ev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre.Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Jjieut -Col. P. Jacoby, 11 ,Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
Lonoon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hlU,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epr-jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54. Denbigh-street, Be!grave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York.
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalsto n Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.. Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Repnblica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home dally from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds qf Spiritual literature.
1%/rDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
J-vJL At home from 12 to 6 o’olook. 178, Rue St. Houord,
Paris.
W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can he attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
OVERNMENT PROSECUTIONS FOR
MEDICAL HERESY: a Verbatim Report of the Case
“ Regina v. Tebb.” Dedicated to the Board of St. Pancras
Guardians, London. With letters from the Right Hon. W. E.
Gladstone, M.P., the Right Hon. John Bright, M.P., and others.
Forty pp., Price 2d., or Is. 9d. per dozen, or 12s. per 100. This
pamphlet should be circulated largely during elections of
Guardians and Members of Parliament. Published by Edward
W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6cL London, W.O. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 8s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Prtiace describing the spiritual state qf trance
during which some qf the poems were given.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o'clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the first Instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
MRS. M. G-. PARKER, MESMERIC
HEALER and DEVELOPING MEDIUM, 22, Hart-
street, Bloomsbury-square, London. Hours 12 to 6.
lY/TRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
-LvJL Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Franklin
gives Seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-square,
from 2 to 5, every day except Sunday, and every evening from
8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engagements can be made
by letter sent to the above address. .
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients and maybe consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
CONTENTS.
Part L
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XL Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song."—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXL Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala,
XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin.—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Bronoh
Office, London, W.C.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-plaee, Blooms¬
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5. Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday evenings, office hours, owing to press of business,
extended to nine o’clock.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
-Lx. ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete,
Published on the 15ih of every month, at Turin, Tip,
Baglione, vi& Boglno, No. 23.
T> EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
-LV logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Socidtd
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science,
price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mctze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth's visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
Brighton.—miss wood, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. — Terms on
application.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price fid., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price fid., paper
cover, “HeavenOpened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is, The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
"ORIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
tained in Brighton of Messrs Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James's-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s- road.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terraee, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3 per week
each; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Cos-
sonnerie. Paris.
jL xif xtf i|^ mh. xtf
Ko. 337.—Volume Fourteen; Number 5ix.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7th, 1879.
MASTER ROWBERRY’S MEDIUMSHIP. j
The appended quotation from last Tuesday’s Daily Tele- i
graph describes one of a considerable number of such cases, j
The same journal once reprinted from The Spiritualist, how j)
the Irish police were completely baffled for weeks by even more j j
violent outbreaks at Cookstown, near Belfast, and Mr. Wm. j \
Howitt once included many such cases in a useful little |)
pamphlet, now out of print, entitled i( Stone Throwing by |j
Spirits.” A case occurred three or four years ago at Peckham, I
which the police who saw the stones thrown could not ;
explain ; this, however, would not do for the ignorant public, j
and a police authority gained great popularity when he j
“ solved” the mystery, by detecting a boy firing a popgun
or other direful weapon, some weeks afterwards, several j
miles from Peckham. The worst of such matters is, that |
the individuals in whose presence the real things occur, jj
usually get locked up by the police and punished by the |1
magistrates, on the aground that 4{ spirits could not j'
do it,” nor any mortal but the accused, therefore the latter
is the culprit, and must be punished accordingly.
The only drawback is, that in the majority of cases spirits j
did do it, and the artful boy has had to take the punishment,
at the further cost of the disgrace for life of having been !
imprisoned. But what of that ? Under the regime of the j
British dispensation of past generations, boys were made to
be whipped.
Stone-throwing by spirits is as real as table-turning, but
is outdoor instead of indoor exercise for their exuberant— j
“ spirits ”—if the tautology may be admitted. The sooner boys j
are no longer disgraced for life by their pranks, and the j
sooner “ fasting girls,” who in a mesmeric state live almost
without food, are no longer killed by ignorant doctors, the
better will it be for innocent people, and for the historical
honour of British science.
Here is the case from The Telegraph:—
A correspondent writes :—“The little village of Rochford, near
Tenbury Wells, has during the past week been the scene of intense j
excitement, through some extraordinary ‘manifestations’ that have
displayed themselves at the house of Mr. Joseph Smith, of New-house
Farm. Weights have been removed, cows have been mysteriously
untied in their sheds, and for several days and nights showers of stones
fell upon the farmhouse, breaking the various windows to atoms, and dread¬
fully alarming the inmates. Stones descended the kitchen chimney, doors
were rattled and slammed night and day, until the inhabitants came to
the conclusion that the house was bewitched. Two police-officers were
stationed on the premises, and numerous farmers went in a body to
satisfy themselves of the truth of the 1 manifestations.’ They found
stones bounding and rebounding in all directions, and the doors and
boards of the barn shaking violently. A boy employed upon the farm
(named Rowberry) was several times knocked down with the stones. I
This youth was sent upstairs, when a terrible disturbance was heard
overhead, doors slamming, windows breaking, and a number of unearthly
noises. This youth was at once removed from the premises, and the
inhabitants of New-house Farm have since been at rest from ‘ spiritual
manifestations.’ ”
THE CLAIRVOYANCE OF THE BLIND. I
Mr. F. T. Parson, M.D., of 300, Gate’s-avenue, Brooklyn,
U.S.A., writes as follows to Mr. W. M. Wilkinson, solicitor,
Lincoln’s-inn-fields, London, under the date of January 7th, I
1879
“ Miss Fancher also received copies of the same journal, >
and sent me the enclosed note in acknowledgment. I send
it to you as a pleasant souvenir, with Miss Fancher’s card, j
written by herself. You will notice the back hand. Her
chirography is elegant, although she is obliged to write j
entirely with her left hand since her first illness.
it Her eyes have remained quite closed since last July. This
has repeatedly occurred, although, if open, there is no natural
sight. The pupil is distended to almost the entire surface of
the cornea, with no power of contraction under the most
powerful rays of concentrated light. Of course seeing under
such circumstances by natural sight is quite impossible. The
wonderful physical and psychological changes this dear girl
has undergone are past belief. I trust the time will come
when they may be presented in full by physicians and
friends in the interest of true science. Her two attending
physicians for the past thirteen years are gentlemen who
stand in the very front rank of the Allopathic School of
Medicine in this city.”
THE “IGNORANT” SAVAGE.
The following extract from Africa (p. 137), edited by
Keith Johnston (Stanford, 1878), displays a knowledge on
the part of savages which is lacking in ninety per cent, of
j professors of science:—
“ The savage’s cardinal virtue is his devotion to his family,
j a feeling reaching beyond the limits of life and the visible
| world. The members of the same family, and even of the
| same tribe, are bound by ties of the greatest fidelity one to
| the other. Towards others they may show themselves
I treacherous, dishonest, and ruthless; amongst themselves
| they are ever kind, loving, and true. The dead are often
buried in the house occupied by them when alive. Their
i kinsmen do not look on them as bodies devoured by worms,
j but as an ethereal spirit hovering around their hearths, and
still living in association with them. Hence the frequent
I custom of setting some food or a bowl of palm wine apart
i | for their deceased relatives ; for the African believes that in
II the food also dwells a soul that the spirit of the departed
11 can partake of, while the matter itself of their nourishment,
11 like the bodies of men, falls a prey to corruption. Tell him
! I that the souls of the dead dwell in spaces far removed from
;! earth, and he laughs at you with a conscious feeling of
' j superior wisdom, and relates of ghosts seen by him at night,
! i and of mysterious sounds which have reached his ears.
; | Knows he not, moreover, that the dear ones are in his
I midst ? Is he not persuaded that he lives in their very
| j presence ? Hence he feels no sense of loneliness; when he
; | has no human fellowship the ghosts of the dead are at his
side, and he sings to them of his joys and his sorrows.”
A Bishop on Departed Spirits.—The iEocA; says that the Bishop of
Lichfield preached a sermon at Walsall on the death of “ Sister Dora,”
and that “ the bishop’s text was taken from Psalm cxvi. 7, 8, and 9.
‘ Return unto thy rest, O my soul,’ &c. After preliminary remarks in
explanation of the text, the bishop remarked that he had come amongst
them as their bishop to weep with those that wept, and to speak words
of comfort to sorrowing hearts. So far, so good. But Dr. Maclagan
then explained to his hearers the reason which induced him to select
i that portion of Scripture. He related how the very last time he sat by
11 Sister Dora’s bedside he spoke to her from those very words, and she
11 * grasped at them with joy.’ He ‘ then asked her to think, when in
11 that heavenly home, of them all, of the poor in Walsall, and to pray
11 for them all. For was it to he supposed that they did not pray who were
i j in the full presence of the Hearer and Answerer of Prayer? ’ She said,
11 ‘ I will not forget you, hut will think of you and pray for you all.'
JI  The foregoing might seem bad enough, but what follows is
i ] still worse, for Dr. Maclagan did not hesitate to ascribe to Sister Dora s
11 spirit a power of locomotion for which it would be impossible to find
j any parallel except in the legends of the Church of Rome ! The bishop
i i asked his audience whether ‘ they could doubt that at that very moment
11 when they were assembled there in that house of prayer, she was with
[| them in spirit joining in their prayers ?’ If that were so Sister Dora
i i must have been free of Paradise or Hades—of which Christ Himself
11 holds the key—if her spirit could be in Walsall church while Bishop
[ i Maclagan was preaching her funeral sermon ! But the bishop actually
i i proceeded a step further when he expressed as a matter of personal
I i knowledge that the spirit of Sister Dora was really present, for he
II added: ‘ And they knew that she .... was indeed with them in that
i I service, and would he with them most of all in that solemn service (the
[| Holy Communion) which'was to follow j Here we have exactly the
i i doctrine of Spiritualism.”
62
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Eeb. 7, 1879.
A SPIRITUALIST’S FUNERAL AT WALSALL.
On Wednesday afternoon a funeral of a novel character in this part
of the country took place at Walsall cemetery. Daniel Holmes, spring bar
maker, who had been for some time in delicate health, died on Thurs¬
day, the 23rd ultimo, aged 45 years. As it was known that the funeral
would be conducted in accordance with the Spiritualist mode, there was
a large attendance of spectators, notwithstanding the day was exceed¬
ingly cold and bleak. A north wind was blowing and a slight snow
shower was falling. The coffin, on which was placed a pretty wreath
of ferns and hot-house flowers, was carried into the chapel used by
Nonconformists, where the service was commenced by the singing of a
hymn commencing—■
“ He liyeth long who liveth well,
All other life is short and vain.”
After which Mr. Matthews, a well-known medium, engaged in prayer,
and then delivered an impressive address, in the course of which he
reminded his hearers that they had assembled to witness what
in this life was a common occurrence; but although they
had assembled to commit to the earth the body of their departed
brother, yet that which they called death was only a new birth, for
" although the earth claimed its own, and they committed ‘5 earth to
earth,” the spirit that had fled from the clay tenement—that inestimable
jewel, the soul—had gone to be reset in a more beautiful and precious
setting. He, whose body they had met to consign to the grave, had
gone to receive the just reward of his good works upon earth, and so
bask for ever in the glorious sunshine of their Father’s presence. He
advised his hearers to live so that when they came to die they might
enter into the joys that were prepared for the just. He also reminded
them that he who had gone from their midst and died a physical death
had been born into spiritual and everlasting life.
Mr. Mahoney, of Birmingham, also addressed the spectators, and
said Spiritualists knew for a certainty that spirits did exist after
physical death had severed the connection between the soul and the
body. The Spiritualists believed in the words of Christ, who said, “in
my Father’s house are many mansions,” and understood the true mean¬
ing of those words, for they believed that when a spirit left this world
it would go to that mansion for which it was fitted; and on entering
those mansions they would have that body which St. Paul called the
“ spiritual body.” The deceased knew and believed all that, and there¬
fore entered into spirit-life joyfully. Spiritualists believed that for
every act and deed men were accountable, and if they did not live
to the best of their ability and do all the good they could, they would
have to pass through a probationary state till they were fitted for the
higher spheres.
At the grave another hymn was sung, and a prayer offered up by
Mr. Matthews, and the company, after taking a last look at the coffin,
dispersed.— Walsall Free Press, Feb. 1st, 1879.
SUNDAY SERVICES AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS.
A Sunday Spiritualistic class meeting for children and adults, convened
by Mr. J. W. Fletcher, was held at 11.30 a.m. on Sunday last at the
Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, W., London, and was well attended.
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., who has consented to act as
superintendent, presided, and made known to the audience in a few
remarks the objects of the movement contemplated in founding the
Lyceum, and said that he should watch with interest every step taken;
he hoped that all present would enter most heartily into the work.
Mrs. Fletcher, on being called upon, spoke of the success of the
Children’s Lyceum in America, and urged upon those who were to
become teachers to fitly prepare themselves for the work they had chosen
to do, promising her aid and assistance. The teachers were then chosen
by ballot, and subsequently classes were formed and lessons arranged
for the coming week.
In the evening Mr. Fletcher delivered an inspirational address. He
was introduced by Mr. Thomas Slater, who expressed his approval of
the work now being done, and said that Mr. Fletcher was entitled to the
thanks and good wishes of all true workers in the cause of Spiritualism.
Mr. Fletcher then delivered an address, of which the following is a
summary:—
The subject to which we invite your attention this evening is “ Some
of the Laws relating to Spirit Control.” In the investigation of any
subject all the knowledge and all the wisdom previously gained in
various ways is brought to bear upon the subject in hand. Men never
ordinarily dream of leaving reason outside in the consideration of any
ideas that are old or new; but when they enter the realm of religious
or theological research, they seem to have entered a strange world,
in which the wisdom and the knowledge which they have gained
plays no part. When they enter the door of a church some of them
leave reason and common sense outside, and when the various forms of
spiritual phenomena are demonstrated they look upon these manifesta¬
tions either as miracles, or the working of a supernatural power. And
why ? Because when any of the various spiritual phenomena of nature
have presented themselves, the theologian has said to the world, “ You
must not question concerning these things; God has wisely veiled them
in mystery.” Nothing in Spiritualism is eternally veiled in mystery;
and if there is anything which will not bear the clear searching rays
of reason and intellect, we will bring it forth to the sun, and find
wherein the mystery lies. Our lecture to-night is a supple¬
ment to a lecture given on a previous occasion in these rooms.
Before studying the action of disembodied spirits it is better to
know something of the action of embodied spirits, the control of mind
over mind, the action of one will over the will of another; and this you
see plainly manifested in mesmerism, where the operator makes his
power felt by the subject. The action of mind upon mind is the first
step beyond materialism. And how does the mesmeriser affect the
i subject ? He places a certain number of people before him ; he bids
| them lay aside all outside things and concentrate their thoughts upon
him; he is enabled then to affect some of the number. He so brings
his own spirit to the surface that he makes the power of that spirit felt
by the subject, and every mesmeriser has a strong band of spirits who
work in connection with him. He may not be able to affect every one
the first, second, or third time, but each time the effort is made the
subject comes more in harmony with the operator, and his efforts are
crowned with greater success. “ But,” says one, “ mesmerism has
nothing to do with Spiritualism; it is the power of one mind over the
mind of another, and that’s all.” Now, if you could demonstrate
the fact that the results were limited by the capacity of the
operator, then you might say it had nothing to do with spirits or
| Spiritualism. But the operator sends his subject into unknown lands,
where he describes scenes, faces, and conditions wholly unknown to
the operator; and therefore we say that the operator makes, for the
time being at least, a medium of his subject, and through the power of
| that mediumship the spirits impress various objects upon the brain of
the subject. You could not have a stronger evidence of the power of
mesmerism than is shown to you in the ordinary religious revivals
which periodically devastate the country. The world says that God is
working with this man or the other, that the spirit of the Lord is
being poured out through the life of this or that preacher, and that
people are “ getting religion.” We reply that such is not the case ;
the Spirit of the Lord is no more present at one time than another,
with one person than another, since he is no respecter of persons. The
revivalist preacher’s success is limited by his mesmeric power. He
gathers the people together; their minds are fixed upon a subject of
common interest, and they become responsive to him. Every clair¬
voyant would see clouds of mesmeric influence rolling out from him
and blending with the influence of others, and those who are most
responsive “ get religion ” the soonest. This is the action of mind
over mind in the body. We come now to the action of the
mind out of the body, where the spirit takes the place of the
mesmeric operator, and the medium becomes the subject operated
upon. It is a mistaken idea that in conscious mediumship the medium
is controlled by the spirit. The spirit does not take possession of the
medium, but the medium is simply overshadowed by the spirit.
There are many people who say, “ If the spirits made me do this, that,
and the other, I would never be a medium.” We reply that all these
efforts are but as primary steps towards the great result. As well say
that since the child stumbles at every step he shall not walk until he
can do so without falling; but all these mis-steps are simply to
strengthen the muscles and the limbs, and to teach the child the
process of volition. In the same way each effort of the spirit is an
attempt to adapt its power to the medium, to gain flexibility and attain
control over the muscles and nerves of the medium. In writing
mediumship, in healing mediumship, and in all the varied phases of
the action of the spirit, the ultimate is never gained, because two
elements act in opposition to the best results ; the will of the medium
who determinedly thinks he must exercise some control over the mani¬
festation oftentimes prevents results of great value. The physical
condition of the medium also becomes an opposing element, especially
when he endeavours to resist the influences of the spirit; the influences
which surround him, the influence conveyed to him, all have an effect
upon the spirit. Your very thoughts may affect him; the letters you
write all carry an influence either for good or evil, and we say that
much disease, and harm, and trouble are conveyed by the simple
fact of keeping letters about your person, as many people do.
Therefore, in this conscious form of mediumship, which is the most
common, the medium should offer as little resistance as possible.
We pass now to unconscious mediumship, which is by far the most
valuable form, since it benefits not only those in this world, but
those in the spirit as well, many of whom have not lived out their
earthly conditions. Every medium is distinguished by a colour, and
that colour indicates the particular spirit, or sphere of his sur¬
roundings, and corresponds to a sphere in the spirit world from
which all the spirits controlling him must come; the dark colours
indicate lower forms of development, and the lighter colours indicate
higher forms of development. “ Why is it,” the question is asked when
I go for a sitting, “ that my friends do not come to me ?” You probably
blame the medium, although he is the last to blame of any one. Your
spirits may not be in a sphere corresponding to that of the medium at
the time, therefore they are unable to communicate with you. Your
own colour may change that of the medium, making it darker or lighter
as the case may be. The colour, however, does not always remain the
same, as it depends much upon the physical condition, and the sur¬
roundings of the medium. You may go two or three times to the
same medium, and gradually your influence may harmonise with his,
the successful manifestations may occur. You go to your
friends in great trouble and pour out the burden of your
woes to them, and you go away from them feeling so much better
and happier. They have not made the burden lighter, they have
not changed the condition of things in any way ; but their own spiritual
colour has blended with the darker one of your own trouble which sur¬
rounds you, and made your mesmeric conditions lighter. You call it
sympathy: it is nothing more nor less than the blending of two spiritual
spheres. There are two opposing elements which operate very strongly
in unconscious mediumship. The food which is taken into the system
attracts either high or low spirits; and mediums should be particularly
careful of what they eat and drink before giving stances. If you will
but remember, the Master fasted forty days that the power of the
Spirit might be with Him; and mediums must be able to put sensuality,
jealousy, and selfishness under their feet, before they will be able to
realise the possibilities of their mediumship. They must remember
that they live not for themselves alone ; that through their organisation
is the open door which communicates with both worlds; and that
THE SPIRITUALIST.
63
Feb. 7, 1879.
indulgence in any form serves to close that open door. Beyond the
rank and position the world can give ; beyond the fame and renown
society may yield; aye, beyond everything in the power of this world
to confer, is the gift of the Spirit called mediumship. And let every
medium within the sound of our voice feel the trust imposed in her, or
him, and furnish as far as possible physical conditions untainted by
degrading influences. Mental conditions, also, act strongly in this
form of mediumship. Your very thoughts are tangible: when you
hate others you are sending waves of trouble to them; when you
love others you are furnishing them the means wherein to accom¬
plish their work. Then in this form of unconscious mediumship
guard yourselves well both from enemies within and without, and
when you make the condition the results are sure to come. There
are those who have said that even in these lectures there was
nothing new. No, there is nothing new, and we intend to repeat the
old until you realise more of its teachings in your lives; there are new
thoughts, new truths, new lessons waiting for you, and when you are
ready they will be given to you. The lessons of spirit and of Spirit¬
ualism are not simply to be talked about, simply to be thought about,
but they are to be lived as well. And when by your lives you make the
conditions, we shall be enabled to teach you the higher lessons which
we have learned. We pass now from the realm of unconscious medium-
ship into that higher, grander phase of power called inspirational
mediumship—the rarest of all, since it is a perfect blending of the spirit
outside the body with the spirit inside the body. It is an exaltation of
the spirit, a lifting out of this world, a stepping into the next.
Have you never thought that you were asking the spirit world to
do the whole work ? Have you never thought that it was possible for
you to meet them half way ? In the form of inspirational mediumship
the spirit of the medium is in absolute association with the higher
spirits; and when mankind lives less for earth and more for heaven,
then will the power of inspiration be brought nearer to you. The laws
of spirit control, in the main, cannot be given and applied the same to
each human life; but we can say that the more love and less hate, the
more charity and less selfishness, the more forgiveness and less con¬
demnation you have, the more perfect you make the conditions whereby
you shall receive a demonstration of the power of the spirit.
It was announced that at the close of the next lecture, when the con¬
ditions were harmonious, Mr. Fletcher would probably give some per¬
sonal tests to those in the audience around whom he should see spirits.
A NEW SHORTER CATECHISM.
What is God ?—The effectual cause of the phenomena of the uni¬
verse ; an entity whose existence it is scientifically unpleasant to
assume, but logically impossible to deny.
Note.—Whereas, God was once very much of a man, now man is very much
of a God.
What is man?—The supreme product of the developmental forces
acting on organic forms.
Note.—Originally man was simply a cell, now he is a complex one.
Of what is man made ?—Of protoplasm.
Note.—Formerly organisms were supposed to be made of dust, now we
know dust to be made of organisms.
At death, to what does man return?—To gas.
Note.—Spiritualism would make this a verb in the infinitive; science shows
that this supremest product of cosmic forces drops at once into its first
elements.
What is the chief end of man ?—To attain “ sweetness and light.”
Note.—This only applies to the upper classes.
What is true morality?—Complete adaptation to one’s environment.
Note.—This rule makes up by its universality for the limitation of the
previous one. It reaches from man to the polyp.
What is religion ?—A form of sensibility ; the expression of a class of
emotions (affecting women) developed by the desire to know our origin,
destiny, and moral nature.
Note.—Religion is universal, and will always be indispensable, except to
those who have attained sweetness and light.
What is faith?—Faith is an emotion clinging to the high things
which reason has not yet demonstrated.
Note.—There are two kinds: (a) Religious faith, the belief of an ennobling
supernaturalism ; (6) scientific faith, the belief in an alluring hypothesis.
C. L. Dana, in Scribner's Monthly.
Mr. Bret Harte in London.—Mr. Bret Harte has arrived in London
for an extended lecturing tour. He has delivered his first public lecture
at the Crystal Palace, where he drew a large audience, and on the 4th
inst. delivered a lecture at Hull. He is the guest, whilest in London, of
Mr. Triibner, at whose house he was last Sunday evening welcomed by
quite a number of English admirers, among them the editor of this
journal. Mr. Frank Dietz has done much in London to popularise Mr.
Bret Harte’s poetry among Spiritualists, by dramatically reciting selec¬
tions at public meetings.
Our readers are requested to take notice that if they intend to bind
their volumes of The Spiritualist they should not give away a single
number now and then, for they may possibly he unable to replace it.
We do not overprint so many, as was once the case, to meet all the
irregular demand from irregular subscribers ; consequently, some of the
numbers this year will run out of print in a month or two. There was
unexpectedly a larger demand for the number containing Mr. Harrison’s j
paper a fortnight ago than for any for many months past ; consequently, |
it ran out of print in three days, and had not some return numbers i
from newsvendors subsequently reached our City agent, those who
parted with their copies would have been unable to replace them.
APPARITIONS OF THE LIVING.*
BY EMILY KISLINGBURY.
“ The awful shadow of some unseen Power
Floats, tho’ unseen, among us.”
u While yet a boy, I sought for ghosts, and sped
Thro’ many a listening chamber, cave, and ruin,
And starlight wood, with fearful steps pursuing
Hopes of high talk with the departed dead.
I was not heard ; I saw them not.”—Shelley.
“ Methinks I feel new strength within me rise,
Wings growing, and dominion given me large,
Beyond this deep; whatever draws me on,
Or sympathy, or some connatural force,
Powerful at greatest distance to unite
With secret amity things of like kind
By secretest conveyance.”
I Milton’s u Paradise Lost” Book X.
At our last meeting in these rooms, a question was put to
| the lecturer on that evening as to whether he would furnish
| any examples of apparitions of living persons, as such cases
| appeared to be akin to the subject then under discussion.
| That subject was hauntings and apparitions of the departed
I or departing, and the examples adduced were illustrative of
| the truth of the identity of the ghost or apparition with
j persons known to those to whom they had appeared.
Now, the cases of apparitions of the living, which I shall
| have the honour of bringing before yoq to-night, seem to
j me to prove something quite different; that is to say, if they
| can be said to prove anything ; for I must own that to my
| mind they are altogether inexplicable, objectless, and not
i traceable to any law or cause with which I have even the
| slightest acquaintance. Though doubtless many other ex-
] amples may be found in the literature connected with this
I subject, I have confined myself chiefly to those which have
come within my own cognisance.
I regret very much that I am unable to give publicly the
j names of those concerned, but I will, in some instances, and
| under certain conditions, do so privately to any person
I wishing for further information. (It will perhaps be suffi-
! cient to say that the greater number, or indeed, all of them,
| are in this room at the present moment, or might be.)
The class of facts with which I have to deal were not
| heard of for the first time in connection with what is
i generally understood as modern Spiritualism. Indeed, I
i am sometimes puzzled to know why this movement should
j be said to date from the Rochester rappings, since these
| phenomena, and others which accompanied or succeeded
! them, have been known in all ages, as shown by the enact¬
ment and enforcement of laws against witchcraft, necro-
I mancy, and palmistry, even within very recent times ; some
! of us can even remember the application of the latter term
1 in a celebrated case tried at Bow-street before Mr. Flowers.
I In a work recently edited by Mrs. Hardinge Britten, re-
] ference is made to a society who practised experiments with
! the spirits of the living. The members found that certain of
| their number could effectually, by will-power, cause an
j apparition of themselves to be seen at a distance, generally,
I I believe, during sleep ; they also found that by mesmeric
| power they could exercise their will on the spirit of a sleep-
j ing sensitive, and cause it to travel at their bidding. These
| experiments were so dangerous that they were happily not
I continued for any great length of time, and it would seem
I that the voluntary exercise of this power is even more ex-
| hausting and more detrimental than the involuntary working
j I of ordinary mediumship.
There are, however, plenty of instances on record of the
j involuntary appearance of “doubles” at a distance; one I
| | have heard related in this room at our discussion meetings.
J I allude to the adventure of Mr. Joy (no doubt remembered
j by many now present), who, at the moment when he was
struck down by a ruffianly collier ip Wales, touched a friend
on the shoulder who was walking in the streets of London,
and who recognised and spoke to him. .
I will now relate an incident in which I was myself one
of the actors. I wrote it down in detail at the time, and
showed it to one or two friends, who questioned me as to all
the particulars, so that nothing was allowed to escape.
On Wednesday, 13th February, 1878, a friend, whom I
will call M., entered the reading-room at 38, Great Rassell-
* A paper read before the National Association of Spiritualists February 3rd, 187S',
fU
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 7, 1879.
street I said to him jokingly, “ I did not know you were
so shortsighted as not to see your friends in the street;
you passed me yesterday afternoon.” “ Indeed! where, and
at what time?” “About half-past three, in this street. I
was on my way to Vernon-place, and as I passed the end of
ther Museum or Bury-street (I think the latter) I saw you
coming up that street, with a pipe in your mouth, from
which I observed the smoke issuing, and you were reading
something which, from the colour of the cover, I took to be
the R. Magazine. You did not look up, so I walked on, think¬
ing you would overtake and recognise me, but after I had
turned the corner of Bloomsbury-square I looked round,
and saw that you had passed me, and were walking along in
front of the Square garden; you were still smoking your
pipe, but you had ceased reading. I could not see whether
you had the magazine still in your hand, but I particularly
noticed that the band of your Ulster coat was loose, and that
the ends were hanging on either side. I thought it rather
tsrange you had not seen me, but I know you are rather
shortsighted, and perhaps you were reading when you
passed me. You look astonished; now what is your story?”
M. “ My story is this. I left this room yesterday
afternoon at 2.15 with the magazine you speak of in my
pocket, I went—not into great Russell-street at all—but
through Woburn-street, and other small turnings into
Holborn, and made direct for the City, arriving at a friend’s
office at ten minutes past three by the clock there. I
remained in the office, busily employed, until after six
o’clock, when I walked back to Holborn. On setting out I
felt in my pocket for my pipe, but it was not there, and I
found it at home, in its usual place on my arrival.”
Now, what was this ? There was no mistake about the
identity, so far as appearance goes; the figure, features,
hat, pipe, coat, and magazine were all noted by me as
familiar, and were seen from two points of view, before and
behind. I do not know, of course, whether the figure was
visible to others, but I am not clairvoyante, and the appari¬
tion was just as solid as the other persons in the street. I
did not then know that it was M.’s habit to smoke a pipe
and read as he went along the street. I had never seen him
do it. I knew that he had the magazine in his pocket when
he left, for it was one which he had lent me, and as only
about an hour had elapsed since I saw him, I imagined that
he had been down to some newspaper office, and was return¬
ing home with the last number. M. assured me that he
was not trying an experiment on me; on the contrary, he
was occupied at that time and all the afternoon with work of
a peculiarly engrossing character, and that his wits were not
wool-gathering, nor his mind wandering. This is, therefore,
an example of an involuntary and, apparently, an objectless
apparition.
The following is another. I wrote of it at the time, but
only in a letter to a friend, so I have not the date, but it
took place during last summer.
A lady friend came to see me here one Saturday afternoon,
and, after closing-time, we took a walk in Hyde-park, re¬
turning at about eight o’clock. I remained in the passage
below for a moment to speak to the housekeeper, while my
friend walked upstairs. When I arrived on the second
landing I met her coming out of my sitting-room. She
said : M There is a gentleman in your room, Mr. N.” I
expressed surprise, for I am unused to receive visitors on
Saturday evenings, when it is generally understood that I
am out of town. We entered the room together, and now it
was my friend’s turn to be surprised, for there was no person
visible. She said : “ He was certainly here; he was sitting
in that chair, and when I entered the room, he came to
meet me, shook hands, and asked me how I was. I replied
that I was well, and that you (meaning myself) were coming
up directly.” Now this lady, unlike myself, is clairvoyante;
I was, therefore, not so very much surprised that she should
see a person who might have been in my room, though
scarcely under the circumstances. On inquiry, I found
that N. had been (I think) at his club at the time, and was
certainly not attempting to cast his double into my apart¬
ment. Another objectless and involuntary apparition.
The next instance I shall relate occurred to a lady with
whom I had been travelling in America, who was not a
Spiritualist, but who seemed to have some slight clairvoyant
power. Miss B. had left me at Niagara fFalls, and had
gone up the River St. Lawrence, while I returned to Albany
and New York. She related the story to me on her arrival
in the latter city, shortly before I left for England. The
first evening that she spent in an hotel at Quebec, she
entered, by mistake, a room next to her own, in which she
saw a lady, and two children playing on the sofa. She
apologised and retired. Going down to dinner the ladies
met in the passage and greetings were exchanged. Miss
B. asked after the children. “ I have no children
with me,” said the lady. “ Then whose were those I saw in
your room ? ” After hearing Miss B.’s description, the lady
said, “ This is very strange, because that is an exact descrip-
sion of the two children of a relation of mine, of whom I
generally have charge; but at present I am here alone, and
have had no one in the room with me. But how is your little
boy?” “I have no little boy,” replied Miss B., astonished
in her turn. “ I have come quite alone from Europe to see
America, and my only companion has been a lady whom I
met on the steamship, and from whom I parted at Niagara
Falls.” The description of the child given by the lady did
not coincide with that of any child known to Miss B. This
simultaneous vision by two persons, mutually “ inter¬
viewing ” each other’s astral friends, is the only one of the
kind that has ever come under my notice.
It is with some hesitation that I now proceed to relate an
experiment of will-power made between two persons well
known in this society. It is always difficult to verify these
things even if expected results are attained, and when the
operators at each end of the line find their notes agree. After
all, we do not know that the results were due to the means
used, and I distinctly wish it to be understood that, though I
can vouch for the facts, I am not putting forward a theory for
their explanation.
One evening early in last year a friend, whom I will call
A., resolved to try whether he could appear to B., at some
miles distant. A. did not inform B. beforehand of the experi¬
ment he intended to make. He retired to rest shortly before
midnight, and, before going to sleep, fixed his thoughts
intently on B., with whose room and surroundings, however,
he was quite unacquainted. A. soon fell asleep, and awoke
the next morning unconscious of anything having taken
place. On seeing B. a few days afterwards, he asked, “ Did
anything happen at your room on Saturday night ? ” u Yes,”
replied B., “a great deal happened. I had been sitting over
the fire with M., smoking and chatting. About 12.30 he
rose to leave, and I let him out myself. I returned to the
fire to finish my pipe, when I saw you sitting in the chair
just vacated by M. I looked intently at you, then took up a
newspaper to assure myself I was not dreaming, but on
laying it down I saw you still there. While I gazed with¬
out speaking, you faded away. Though I imagined you
must be fast asleep in bed at that hour, yet you appeared
dressed in your ordinary garments, such as you usually wear
every day.” “ Then my experiment seems to have succeeded,”
said A. “ The next time I come, ask me what I want, as I
had fixed my mind on certain questions I intended to ask
you, but I was probably waiting for an invitation to speak.”
A few weeks later the experiment was repeated with equal
success, A., as before, not informing B. when it was to be
made. On this occasion B. not only questioned A. on a sub¬
ject which was at that time under very warm discussion
between them, but detained A. by the exercise of his will
some time after A. had said that he wished to leave. This
fact, when it came to be communicated to A., seemed to
account to him for the violent and somewhat peculiar head¬
ache with which he awoke on the morning following the
experiment; at least, he had remarked at the time that there
was no apparent cause, physical or otherwise, for the head¬
ache, to which he was in no way usually subject.
The last incident I shall relate differs from the rest as
being more striking, more objective, and more practical in
its results, while at the same time it is the least easily
accounted for, as having taken place apart from the will or
intention of the persons concerned. I will call them 0.
and D.
D., who is a journalist, was sitting at his desk one morn¬
ing early last September, writing the leading article for a
provincial newspaper, on the Eastern question. He had
Feb, 7, 1879.
65
just finished the opening clauses, when 0. appeared at his
elbow, and said in an audible voice : <e "Write just what I tell
you; I will dictate the rest of the article.” D. obeyed in
fear and trembling, though he was not altogether unused to
apparitions of 0.: yet on this occasion a certain feeling of awe
overcame him, so that he did not like to turn round and face
the spectre, though he was sensible from the voice, dress, &c.,
that it was his friend C.’s double, or whatever else you like
to call it. C. dictated an article of a column and a half in
length, D. following his dictation to the letter. The style
was unlike that of D.; the politics and sentiments were not
his, but decidedly opposed to them, yet because they suited
the newspaper in question, he allowed them to remain. The
most curious part, however, was that statements were made
in the article concerning the mercantile shipping, the build,
rates of freight, tonnage, and manning of vessels in the
Levant, showing an intimate knowledge, or professed know¬
ledge, of Eastern maritime affairs, certainly not possessed by
either C. or D. The article, as it stood, was sent to the press
and appeared in print the next day. It has been read by
more than one person in this room. When D. informed C.
of what had happened he was very much puzzled, and dis¬
claimed the authorship of the article, for at the time the
strange dictation was going on, 0. was in an omnibus going
in a direction quite opposite from the house of D., and not
thinking at all about the Eastern question.
I have said that D. was not unused to apparitions of C.
On one occasion a semblance of 0. appeared to D. in his
room late at night, showing its own light, and having a
mask-like face, similar to that seen in certain kinds of
materialisation; it spoke in audible tones, and in more
than one language. D. was alone, and there was no medium
in the house, yet the apparition was evidently a simulation,
somewhat clumsily performed, of his friend C. Who was
the operator, intelligent in a sort of way, “ at the other end
of the line ? ” C. was unconscious of the act; there was no
intention in the matter, no will-power exercised, no object
to be gained, unless it were that of alarming D. Once D.
requested the simulacrum of 0. to leave some visible and
tangible proof of its presence, in order that he might be
sure the whole affair was not an optical illusion ; the simula¬
crum deposited on D.’s table a lead pencil, enclosed in a
metal case. Such a pencil was certainly sometimes used by
C., but being of ordinary American manufacture, similar to
those in common circulation, no point was gained. Does it
not seem almost as if the words of my motto suggested an
answer ?—“ The awful shadow of some unseen power floats,
though unseen, among us.”
Surely there is a third hand visible in some of the cases,
notably the two or three last which I have mentioned.
And, as I said before, we have no proof that the apparition
of A. to B., when he was sitting over his fire, was produced
by the will of A.; it was merely coincident with his attempted
experiment.
If any one who hears this paper can say that he thinks
there is any evidence of the action of departed human spirits
in the cases I have related (and I will vouch for the truth of
them all), I should very much like to hear his reasons for so
believing.
I confess that they are to me the most puzzling and
inexplicable of the many puzzling and inexplicable phe¬
nomena which have been brought under my notice or
observed by me.
The explanation of the simultaneous visions of the ladies
at Quebec, might be one that would probably be put forward
by the Theosophists—viz., that each lady carried with her
an astral sphere, which, from the state of the atmosphere,
or some other contingent cause, affected both observers at
once, so that each became clairvoyante to the surroundings
of the other.
In the case of apparitions at the time of death, of which
Mr. Harrison furnished us so many interesting examples at
our last meeting, there is a reasonableness—a conceivable
object which recommends itself to the common sense of all.
In the cases I have related there is none, unless in the
writing of the newspaper article, which, however, seems not
to have been done, as it might have been, to relieve the
fatigued journalist, but simply as the exhibition of an
“ unseen power,” for which he was not particularly obliged.
Still, some amongst us may feel that, in a materialistic
age, we may be thankful for any experience of supernatural
phenomena, before we quite lose our hold on that which is
supersensuous, and before we have quite satisfied ourselves
with the conviction that our own thoughts are the key to, or
the reflection of, all the mysteries of the universe. Doubt¬
less many weak hearts have secretly rejoiced over the
revelation of the beliefs and superstitions of Germany’s Iron
Prince, and many will applaud the thrusting of Mr.
Mallock’s lance into the newly-caparisoned hobbyhorse of
Professor Tyndall. If we do not picture our soul—to quote
Mr. Tyndall’s “ last”—as a Psyche which can he thrown out
of the window, at least we have, as Spiritualists, endeavoured
to show that its action is not wholly dependent on, not
wholly allied to, matter; that the glimpses we have been
able to catch through the “ rifts in the veil ” furnish rational
grounds for a belief which millions have held on faith, and
which thousands would gladly preserve from the depredations
of so-called positive science.
To those who find it difficult to believe in the possibility
of these occurrences, I will only return the well-worn answer,
‘ * I did not say that they were possible ; I only said that
they are true.”
Since concluding the above, I have received from a lady,
well-known to this society, a letter containing an excellent
example of the class of spiritual manifestations I have been
speaking of to-night. With your permission I will give it
as it stands :—
“ I have myself had an exceedingly interesting experience
of the apparition of the living, viz., my own appearance at
the supposed death-bed of my sister, when we were three
thousand miles apart. She was attended on this particular
night by another sister, who distinctly saw me go into the
room, and lean over my darling young sister. The latter was
too ill to speak, but she whispered, ‘ Mary is here, now I’m
happy.’ I ought to mention that my elder sister is not given
to visions, and is indeed a very practical, matter-of-fact
person; but she has always since declared that she saw me
from my knees up, and the very dress was plain to her too.
At this time I was just recovering after my confinement with
my son, who is nearly seventeen. He was between four and
five weeks old, when one night I fell asleep, thinking how much
I wished to see this sister. I knew of her illness, and that she
was not expected to recover, and of her intense desire to see
me. Between us the most tender attachment had always
existed, and it was thought that her illness had been much
increased through her grief at our separation. The previous
summer, when we came from the United States to this
country, I had purposely kept from her and my mother the
knowledge of my expected confinement, and they were only
informed after the birth of the child in a letter from my
husband. I mention all this to show how impossible it was
for me to go to her, as she intensely desired. On the night
referred to I had a most vivid dream of seeing her, in a bed
not in her own room, and of seeing my other sister in attend¬
ance. I leaned over her and said, as I thought, “ Emma,
you will recover.’ I told my husband I had been home when
I woke, and my impression that she would recover. This
dream comforted me very much, and from this night there
was a change for the better with my sister, and she gradually
recovered from what was supposed to be an incurable illness.
When we came to compare dates, we found that my dream
and my appearance to my two sisters occurred at as nearly
as possible the same time. I was so lifelike to my younger
sister that she thought I had really arrived on a visit; but,
as I said before, to my elder sister I was shadowy
below my knees, but perfectly natural in appearance. She
afterwards remembered that I did not notice her as I passed
into the inner room, although in my dream I saw her,
nor did I seem to see anything but the one object of my
love.”
Somnambulists and clairvoyants were largely consulted in Paris
recently, in the attempt to discover what would be the winning numbers
in the lottery.
Mr. William Tebb, junior, has just returned to London, improved in
health, after a visit to South Australia, during which he spent much
time in observing the work going on there in connection with Spirit*
ualism.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
66
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 7, 1879.
PEIYATE SEANCES. ! I
SEANCE AT MBS. MAKDOTJGALL GREGOKT’S. j ( |
On Wednesday last week, at a seance at the house of Mrs. j (I
Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, m
London, Mr. C. E. Williams was the medium. His hands j | j
were held, in the dark, by the sitters next to him, namely, || |
Mr. Serjeant Cox on the one side, and Mrs. Ramsay, of 36, j) j
Bryanstone-square, on the other. The other witnesses ! j j
present were Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Miss Emmet, Miss j j!
Mattie Houghton, Mr. G. Ottley, Mr. J. A. Campbell, Mr. ! j j
Annesley Mayne, and Mr. Harrison. j j
After some of the ordinary physical manifestations, such | j
as the direct spirit voice and the floating of musical instru- ! |
ments, Mr. Williams, chair and all, suddenly shot to the top j
of the round table, where he was seen seated on the chair j j
when a light was struck. The rapidity with which he went j j
up caused his hand to be released from that of Mrs. Ramsay j i
for a moment while he was high in the air, but she took it j j
again in an instant. Mr. Serjeant Cox never released his m
hold. |
Materialised heads and shoulders were seen occasionally j j j
by all present, while Mr. Williams was seated between Mrs. | JI
Ramsay and Mr. Serjeant Cox, and held by them. The j (I
forms were dimly illuminated by phosphorescent-looking light 151
held in their hands. Mr. Serjeant Cox said that he saw | (j
these forms coming from and returning to the medium j j
while he held him. j |
A bright spot of phosphorescent-looking light, the size of j
a pin’s head, appeared on one of the fingers of Miss Houghton, j
attracting the attention of those near it by its brilliancy. 11
It gave olf no smoke and did not vary in brightness. After j j
a time it rose in the air, and settled on one of the fingers of j
Mr. Harrison, so lightly that the sense of touch was not |
affected when it came to rest. After it had been visible for j
a length of time, guessed by those watching the light to be i
certainly more than four minutes, one of the spirit voices j j
said, “ I will take it to Serjeant Cox.” A warm finger then | j
brushed it off Mr. Harrison’s hand, took it across the table, | j j
and put it on the coat of Mr. Serjeant Cox. It soon after- j 11
wards went out. j j j
SEANCE AT ME. ELGIE COKNEB’S. j [ j
Last Friday night, at a stance held at the house-of Mr. W. I i j
Elgie Corner, Mr. Haxby was the medium. It was a large j j j
circle, the members of which were seated all round the j > j
room, in the dark, with hands joined. A few spirit lights j | j
were seen. In the dark the spirits went to a cupboard | (j
behind sitters at the opposite side to the room from the j > j
medium, took therefrom curtain cords, and therewith, at m
another part of the room, bound Mr. Harrison skilfully |||
hand and foot, a la Davenport. The operations demonstrated j) I
that they could see perfectly in the dark. Two young j j j
friends of Mr. Haxby’s—Mr. Davis, junr., and Miss Davis— I j j
in whose home circle some of his medial powers were de- j j
veloped years ago, testified that they held him by both hands I |
while these things took place. 1 j |
* (i
SEANCE AT MB. HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD S. j ) j
Last Monday afternoon a stance was held at the house of j j
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, one of the Middlesex magistrates, j j |
31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London. Mr. | j j
Haxby was the medium, and in the dark his hands were I; j
held by Miss Bland—a new investigator—on the one side, ! s |
and by Miss Nina Corner on the other. 11 j
After a few ordinary manifestations, and while a spirit ! | j
light was floating in the air, about four feet above the ! |!
medium’s head, a man-servant opened the door, which m
had accidentally been left unlocked. The daylight thus m
unexpectedly admitted, revealed Mr. Haxby sitting | j j
quietly as at first, with his hands grasped by the two m
ladies. As the daylight came in the spirit light simply 111
went out, and nothing was visible in the air near it. The | j j
door was then closed and locked. j)!
About half-a-minute after the glimpse of daylight had j j j
been admitted, Mr. Haxby gave a slight groan, and fell off j j j
his chair to the ground in a state of insensibility. Captain j | j
James, of Lee, began mesmerising him as he lay upon his m
back upon the floor, and while he was thus under Captain j !
James’s hands, a large spirit light glided along the top of j | j
the table, disappearing below the edge of it in the direction !) j
of Mr. Haxby lying on the floor. Mr. Haxby was at the
moment in a rigid state, with his arms close to his sides.
Soon the medium recovered, and was apparently none the
worse for the mishap. The usual phenomena of a dark circle
went on. A chair was floated over the heads of the sitters,
and placed on the top of the table, whilst in reply to a
question from Captain James, the ladies holding Mr. Haxby
then and there testified that at that instant they were
holding his hands. It is always well at seances to get such
test incidents verified at the moment.
Afterwards one of the usual cabinet seances took place.
A full form, robed in white, came out, but there was no
evidence to what extent the body of the medium was or was
not used in this manifestation. But once, while the form
was fully six feet from the cabinet (which was merely a
curtained-off corner of Mr. Wedgwood’s library), loud raps
came from inside it, although Captain James and Miss
Bland were between the form and the said cabinet. All
this occurred in dim gaslight. When the light was after¬
wards put out, the upper part of a spirit form, illuminated
by a feeble phosphorescent-like light held in its hands, gently
floated up to the high ceiling of the room. No article of
furniture in that corner of the room would have enabled a
mortal to rise to nearly the same height.
THE APPARITION OF THE REV. T. A. BUCKLEY.
BY KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE.
I perceive that you mention the case of the apparition of my
poor friend Theodore Alois Buckley in your paper. I confirm
every word as there given by Mr. Newton Crosland. This was,
however, not the only time my friend appeared to me, and
on one occasion he appeared to two persons at once. In this
way: When he died, some matters existed which had after¬
wards to be legally arranged, and, as the most intimate
friend Buckley had, I was charged with them. In order to
effect a proper arrangement it was necessary for me to find
certain letters and papers of his known by me to be in my
hands, but which, owing to a removal, had got into con¬
fusion. Somewhere about £200 rested on finding these
papers, and I sought for them high and low in my usual
stores ; they, however, remained undiscoverable. You have
observed that the first apparition took place some days after
death; the second was months. I was much perplexed at
finding no papers, and about the 5th or 6th April, 1856, I
was called upon for a decisive statement by the solicitors.
I went to my then chambers, 60, Berners-street, Oxford-
street—part of which I occupied under a highly respectable
upholsterer named Best—on the afternoon of the 6th, accom¬
panied by my friend Mr. William Aspull (also known to the
deceased). It was a cold spring day, and a fire was burning.
Judge of our joint surprise at both of us seeing Buckley
sitting in an easy-chair by the fire. When he saw us (I
mean the apparition saw us) he rose, crossed over the
hearthrug, and placed his hand on a particular part of a
secretary table I had in the corner next the window; he
(Buckley), in our sight) turned round and looked at us and
faded away into nothing. Mr. Aspull, by no means a
timorous man, and opposed to Spiritualism even then, fled
down a flight of stairs ; but I recalled him, and in the very
place where the ghost had put his hand we found the neces¬
sary papers crammed at the back of the escritoire, and we
won our case.
One other appearance of Buckley was vouchsafed; since
then I have been told by the crystal and mirror system that
he is gone too far, and is now at rest.
Hounslow, Jan. 28th, 1879.
“ DEPARTED TO THE HIGHER LIFE.”
Just before going to press, the news has reached us of the
departure to the higher life of Dr. Hallock, of New York,
on January 18th. He passed away suddenly, but quietly,
and without pain. Dr. Hallock has long been recognised as
one of the ablest and most faithful of the American
workers in the cause of Spiritualism, and all his public
utterances were well worth hearing and reading. Much
sympathy will be felt by many of our readers for Mrs.
Hallock and other of Dr. Hallock’s closest relatives now in
London, who are all staunch supporters of everything of
value in Spiritualism.
Feb. 7, 1879,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
67
REMARKABLE SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN SOUTH
AFRICA.
BY BERKS T. HUTCHINSON.
With great pleasure I send you the following account of
some experiments which took place at my residence on the
17th of December in full light, while the medium (Mr.
Eglinton) was held hand and foot by two responsible
persons.
As a votary of the philosophy and believer in the pheno¬
mena of Spiritualism, it affords me great delight to be able
to give information to my brother students in other lands
who are, like myself, seeking for proof positive of spirit
communion, and I think that the facts I state below can be
explained by nothing but the spiritual hypothesis. Some
three years ago I prepared an instrument for spirits to work,
but not having a good physical medium was compelled to
put it on one side until a favourable opportunity oc¬
curred. Mr. Eglinton having come to the Cape, he, after
fulfilling his engagements with the Cape Town Psychological
Society, decided to remain here for an indefinite time, and
being my guest gave me an opportunity of trying my
apparatus, which three years ago I had to put away.
A disk made of galvanised sheet iron, eighteen inches in
diameter, had white paper pasted over the upper part, and
around the edge were the letters of the alphabet, equi¬
distant, with the numbers one to ten between some of them.
In the centre a small round hole, about half an inch in
diameter, was cut, and a pin about three inches long by one-
eighth of an inch thick put through; on the top of this was
a wooden pointer, arrow-shaped, fixed on so that by having
a small cross-piece of wood fixed to the under part, a
materialised spirit hand could move the arrow round to any
letter.
In the centre of my seance table, some three and a half
years since, I had a small circular piece cut out (which I
leave in when not wanted), so that spirits might project
their hands ; the space immediately beneath the wood of the
table made a sort of camera, which prevented the light
falling on the spirit hands, and thereby dissipating the
material molecules collected over them. Having taken out
the circular piece of wood, I placed the circular disk over
the hole, and then fixed the cross-piece to the portion of the
pin that was beneath the table. I have since cut the cross¬
piece a little smaller than the hole in the table, so that it
can be fixed to the pin permanently as it goes through the
hole without trouble now, and saves time.
The apparatus looks very much like a telegraphic instru¬
ment I have seen, where the operator moves the key round
to the different letters.
It is impossible for spirits to produce manifestations
unless a medium is within a certain radius, just as it would
be impossible to send a telegram unless the battery were
powerful enough, for, without electricity, the wire would be
of no service. The spirits, in our case, are the operators;
the sensitives or mediums are the battery which supplies
psychic (soul) force. Having first reduced the light pretty
low, for the purpose of strengthening the power, the invisible
spirit operator told us, by the spirit rapping process, that he
wanted the light turned up, which I at once did. It was
only two or three feet above the table. The room was now
quite light, and with nine persons present, besides the
medium, we had every opportunity of closely watching his
hands and feet, but in order to leave not a shadow of doubt
that the sensitive was only a passive agent in the matter, I
decided that it would enhance the value of the experiment if
both his hands and feet were securely held, to which he readily
acquiesced.
While Mr. Eglinton was grasped firmly by both hands by
an investigator on each side, with one of their feet over each
of his feet, all their hands and feet were in full view. After
sitting for a short time, all the other sitters having their
hands, palms downwards, flat on the table, and their feet
drawn under their chairs, the medium began to tremble and
shiver, owing to power or heat being extracted from his
body, causing the temperature of his body to decrease con¬
siderably (as experiments have shown). He became partly
entranced. The light aifected him very much, owing to his
not being accustomed to light sittings.
At this stage we were told by the spirit that he would try
] I to communicate, if possible, in full light, by means of the
I ! dial. The arrow of the dial began to oscillate and revolve
| alternately, first one way and then the other, and finally
I becoming steady, it pointed to the following letters:
| “ Godunderstandsiloveyoualljoeyiswithyou” — “ God under-
I stands. I love you all. Joey is with you.''1 This proved
I to our minds that the sahie intelligence who spoke to us by
I) | means of the raps was the invisible operator, as no blind
II force could act on the apparatus, and make it spell out
| intelligent messages; and seeing that the medium most
! solemnly, before God and man, repudiates having any active
| part in the matter, as we could see for ourselves, we cannot
| \ | come to any other conclusion than that the spiritual
i n hypothesis is true. The medium began to show symptoms
||j of great nervous exhaustion, when the arrow moved to the
i 11 following letters : 11 Isolatethemedium”—“Isolate the medium”
| j which I did by letting the friends holding him move away
| | from him about two feet, but having a full view of his feet
| ■ and hands. The arrow now began to spin round at a very
| | rapid rate, then stop, and oscillate, and vibrate strongly; the
| | sensitive shivered, and was much agitated whilst the arrow
i | was in motion, establishing the statements of the spirits that
| | the power used for producing the manifestation, was
| | extracted from the body of their medium, as in the case of
| | full form materialisation, during which the weight of the
I | medium varies whilst materialised forms are in view.
Mr. Eglinton then suggested that his eyes should be
| | blindfolded and his hand be allowed to guide the arrow;
| I and with eyes tightly bandaged, the pointer was guided to
| | these letters : “ Godunderstandsiloveyoualljoey” — “ God
| | understands. I love you all, Joey.” The message was word
| 1 for word like the one we obtained by the pointer moving
I | without mortal intervention in the previous experiment,
! | except that “ is with you ” was left out. When the eyes of
| | the medium were unbandaged, I remarked that, speaking
] I from a sceptical point of view, the experiment was not
I | altogether satisfactory, as I thought the bandage did not fit
| | down closely under his eyes owing to the prominence of the
| | nose, whereupon he solemnly declared that he could not see
| a ray of light. I said this because the head was moved once
m or twice, as if to permit the eyes to see beneath the bandage,
I just as I noticed my old friend David Duguid, the painting
medium of Glasgow, to move his head whilst he was painting
a picture when entranced on the 21st June, 1877. But the
motion was involuntary with both mediums, as I knew from
experience. To leave not a shadow of doubt that he did not
| see, Mr. Eglinton said he would try for another message
| blindfolded, but, in addition, somebody should press a finger
| tightly over each of his eyeballs at the same time, to keep
| the folds of the handkerchief well under, so that all the
I sitters in the room could know for themselves. Accordingly,
| I appointed one of the sitters to place a finger over each
eyeball, and at the same time to keep the handkerchief well
I down; under these conditions it was simply a physical im-
; possibility for any human being to normally see anything.
| The medium’s bands were then placed on the arrow; it
began to rotate and pointed to these letters : a Yourmedimnis
trueiloveyoualljoeyisioithyou ”—ie Your medium is true. I love
\ you all. Joey is with you.” Thus the same intelligence who
| gave us the former manifestations sent this last message
| indirectly by mesmerically guiding the hand of the sensitive
| to the letters. Any practical mesmerist will understand
I the process. To dispel any doubts which my previous remark
I might lead the listeners to think I had, the intelligence
! wrote, “ Your medium is true;” and again, for the third
| time, under different conditions, repeated his message, “ 1
j love you all. Joey is with you.”
The communication itself is neither good, bad, nor in-
I different, but simply an experimental message from a spirit,
I who, at our special request, tried (and succeeded too to
| communicate in such a way that no savant, conjurer, or
| other person, could by trying from now till doomsday, account
I for the phenomenon on any other than the spiritual hypothesis.
| Where there was no confederate, scientific mechanism, or a
| properly arranged platform or apparatus with secret ma-
| chinery, nothing would make the simple apparatus act as I
have stated. To make the proof even more positive, I had
' a seance a day subsequent to the experiments in question;
68
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 7, 1879.
and while speaking to iC Joey,” the spirit (who I have often
seen materialised and speaking to ns, with his medium in
view of all at the same time), I asked him if he did it. He
told me point blank, with a clear and distinct voice, “ Why,
certainly I did; who else do you think it was ? I did it to
convince you that spirits can and do communicate with
mortals, hut there are other ways of doing so that do not
tax the energies of the mediums so much.”
Before closing the seance with the dial experiment we had
a short sitting for materialised forms, or spirits materialised
as far as the waist, floating all over the room, and coming
within a few inches of our faces. The beautiful cross was
shown to us all. We know it is objective, for on several
previous occasions it has been brought and held for some
time against the foreheads of difierent sitters, who saw two
spirit forms holding it, one on each side. After this, our old
friend the Turk, with his flat nose, which I have in my previous
letters commented on, floated round to all of us, holding the
luminous substance which lights up his features in his hands.
One lady who had never before witnessed the spirit forms
floating, became rather alarmed; and “ Ernest,” another
guide of the medium’s, remarked, quite audibly, that if she
were afraid, they would refrain from manifesting, but paren¬
thetically added that she need not have the slightest fear, for
the cross (alluding to the luminous one we had seen) we had
just before been shown was a sufficient passport for them
(the spirits); where that was seen no harm would befall
any of us. I know the efficacy of the sign of the cross
being made when undeveloped spirits force their presence
upon us. After this the stance went on, and on the medium
recovering from his trance, remarked that he would partake
of some refreshment and then try the dial again, as there
were some strange spirits wishing to communicate, by
placing his hand on the dial in his normal state. This he
did on returning, and becoming partially entranced, and he
directed the arrow to the following letters, which being
properly grouped made, u I am llosinka Anna Philippa
Henrietta. I died 16 years ago (pointing to 1 and 6 of the
numerals on the disk) to-night. Your sister Louisa   
(I leave out surnames, as I have no permission from the
person who read the message to make it public; it is too
sacred to them to have it publicly ridiculed), afterwards Mrs.
 , is with me. Do you want tests ? She laid me
in my silver and blue coffin ; she is with me, and though two
years have elapsed since she died, I have come back to cheer
your lonely hours. I join with her in sending dear love, and
also to E and C . Cancer cannot kill her now, and
her left breast is noiv healed. God is with you.”
Here ended a most wonderful test message to a lady
present, who became greatly agitated, and acknowledged
everything said, to be literally correct; yet the medium was
quite a stranger to her. Several such messages sent to other
sitters were not of sufficient interest to record.
Last night we had another improvised sitting, and received
several messages by the aid of the dial, the hand of the
medium directing it. To get messages by direct spirit agency
is too trying for the sensitive; hence, when his hand is used,
it greatly economises power. “ Yes, I ivill do as I am requested.
When you write say that there is a probability of his request
being carried out. Your state of mind is our first consideration.
We intend giving spirits opportunity to speak in this simple
ivay.” This was understood by one present, who said the
message was relevant to certain questions which had been
previously put to them (the spirits).
Two or three other spirits gave full details of their names,
ages, cause of death, &c., &c., but I must refrain from
recording the particulars, as time and space will not permit
me to do so. My only object is to place on record the
wonderful and convincing fact of my own dial being acted
on by direct spirit agency in full light, in the presence of nine
persons besides the medium, who, to convince the uninformed
that he was only a passive agent, allowed two sceptics to hold
both his hands and feet firmly, whilst the arrow on the dial
was directed to letters which, on being properly grouped,
proved to form an intelligent and grammatical message from
our friend Joey Sandy, who “passed away” 25th October,
1845. He is now one of Mr. Eglinton’s guides, or familiar
spirits, as the Bible terms it.
One fact, properly demonstrated and duly authenticated,
is as good as ten thousand experiments. If this statement
does not prove the spiritual hypothesis, nothing ever will.
Your readers know my friend and guest, Mr. Eglinton, to
be one of the greatest living mediums through whose
organism disembodied human spirits converse with mortals.
Truth must ultimately prevail, and with such facts as myself
and other independent investigators have given you from
time to time, ignorance and scepticism must sooner or later
vanish, and authenticated facts be believed, as in the case of
astronomy, chemistry, and geology, which a generation or
two ago would have been tabooed.
Cape Town, South Africa, Dec. 29th, 1878.
THE ANGEL OF HEALING.
An inspirational poem, delivered through the trance mediumship of
Miss Lizzie Doten, and published in her Poems of Progress (Colby and
Kich, Boston, U.S.):—
“ They shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover.”
Forth from a region of shadowless calm,
Forth from a garden of spices and balm,
Came a bright angel, an angel of love,
Tenderly bearing a beautiful dove;
Soft as the dew-drops his feet pressed the sod,
So softly no blossom was bruised as he trod.
Down through the realms of the blue summer air,
Floated the angel so gentle and fair—
Down to the grief-stricken bosom of earth,
Whose children must suffer and sin from their birth—
Down where the tears of the mourner are shed,
And wailings of sorrow are heard for the dead.
One moment he listened, as voices of pain
Came up from the hill side, the valley, and plain;
There were voices that pleaded, in accents of grief,
For comfort and healing, for hope and relief.
“ God, help me,” he murmured, soft breathing and low,
“ To heal all your anguish, ye children of woe.”
Then he folded a child to his cherishing breast,
And tenderly hushed its complainings to rest.
He kissed the pale lids of a mourner’s sad eyes,
Till she saw the fair home of her loved in the skies,
And sorrow, and anguish, and pain, and distress,
Fled away where he entered to comfort and bless.
At length, came a mortal, who sought to find rest
From the hopes and the longings that strove in his breast;
For all that the world with its wealth could impart,
Had failed to bring comfort and peace to his heart.
“ O, grant my petition, fair angel,” he cried.
“ What wouldst thou, O mortal r” the angel replied.
“ I ask not for wealth, which would make me a slave;
I ask not a name, to be lost at the grave;
I ask not for glory, for honour, or power;
Or freedom from care through my life’s little hour—
But I ask that the gift which hath made thee divine,
Of comfort, and healing, and strength may be mine.”
Then the angel uplifted a chalice most fair,
Which seemed to be filled with a balm-breathing air,
And a chrism outpoured on the suppliant’s head,
Whose fragrance like soft wreathing incense outspread.
“ Go forth,” said the angel, “ thy mission fulfil,
With faith in thy heart, which gives strength to the will.”
Then, lo ! in an instant the angel had flown,
And left the glad mortal in silence, alone ;
But a token was given that his mission was blest,
When the dove fluttered down and reposed in his breast;
As the prophet of old let his mantle of grace
Float downward to him who should stand in his place.
0 Helper I 0 Healer! whoever thou art,
Let love, like an angel, abide in thy heart.
Let mercy plead low for the sinful and wrong,
Let might, born of justice and right, make thee strong;
Then help shall descend at thy call from above,
And peace in thy bosom shall rest like a dove.
Feb. 7, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
69
arurrc^onuence.
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
he returned; copies should he Tcept hy the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.']  
SPIRITUALISM IN GLASGOW.
Sir,—Mr. Wallis, of London, occupied the platform of the Glasgow
Spiritualists’ Association last Sunday. The subject of the address,
selected by the audience, was, “ The Teachings of Christ in Relation
to Spiritualism,” and was announced to the lecturer by the chairman
after the opening prayer. The committee appointed to select the subject
was composed of three non-Spiritualists and two Spiritualists. The
subject was treated fluently and clearly, in a discourse lasting about an
hour and a half. The audience was pleased, and the committee con¬
sidered that the subject had been handled very successfully. The
lecturer first considered what were the teachings of Christ; next, the
teachings of Spiritualism; and, thirdly, the relation—were they in
harmony, or otherwise ? The lecturer argued that the teachings were
identical, therefore in harmony. The religious principles of modern
Spiritualism, according to the standpoint of the speaker, were plainly
put before the audience in a pleasing and telling manner, without
“ tearing a passion to tatters ” over the beliefs and creeds of other folks
—a thing that too often disgraces the platform and drives would-be
inquirers away, instead of attracting their attention to that superior
light, modern Spiritualism, which is to illuminate the dark chambers
of sectarianism or gross materialism. Spiritualism must win its way
by weight of its facts, the purity of its ethics, the reasonableness of
its philosophy, and the simplicity of its religion; not by howling
anathemas on those who for the present cannot see or believe with us;
not by robbing man of his “ gospel ” crust, or scientific fragment, before
he is able to distinguish between the bread of Spiritualism and the
stones of superstition, lest, mistaking the stones for bread, he die from
lack of nutriment. No Spiritualist lecturer will advance the cause by
descending to the low tactics of the market-place, and underrating the
value of goods not sold by himself; if he has a superior article for dis¬
posal the public will discover the fact in time. These are living,
earnest times. Man everywhere is, consciously or unconsciously,
looking out for “ light, more light,” but will not be cheated into thinking
a candle is the sun, that noise is earnestness, declamation is sincerity,
or that crying down the systems which exist as explanatory of faiths or
facts will fill the aching void for truth and light within their souls.
Mr. Wallis gave two seances and one chamber lecture in addition to
the Sunday service. Mr. Birrell, known here as the “ medium for
inventions,” will lecture in the Spiritualists’ Hall next Sunday. Several
of Mr Birrell’s inventions have been patented, notably one for the dis¬
play of oxy-hydrogen light. He claims that these inventions were
given through spirit agency; at any rate, he is a hard-working struggling
man, blessed like most inventors with more brains than “ siller,” and is
highly respected by the Glasgow Spiritualists. Mr. J. J. Morse will
officiate the following Sunday. It is expected that Miss Wood, of New-
castle-on-Tyne, will in the course of the month give a series of sittings
here. In compliance with request I have opened a phrenological and
mesmeric class every Wednesday evening at eight p.m. in the Society’s
rooms. There were thirty present last class night, and the gatherings
seem in a fair way of being successful. Members of the late Phreno¬
logical Society are taking considerable interest in them, and that is
something. Next Wednesday I shall lecture upon the “ Relation of
Mesmerism to Spiritualism,” which I hope will be of some use in clearly
demonstrating mesmerism to be the stepping-stone to Spiritualism.
  G. Coates.
THE “BLOODY SWEAT.”
Sir,—-In reference to the above phenomenon, the following, from a
letter from a correspondent to whose extensive and curious information
I am often indebted, and to whom I sent a copy of your paper on the
24th January, may be interesting:—■
“ Some years since a very interesting paper (by a medical man) ap¬
peared in one of Cassell’s publications, which furnishes all the informa¬
tion ‘ A. J. C. ’ wishes for, though it overturns his hypothesis. I am
only now quoting from memory, but I am sure of the correctness of the
fact I am giving. The medical name of the ‘ bloody sweat ’ is
‘ Epidesis.’ It is of very uncommon occurrence, and produced by the
most violent mental suffering, and the death of the sufferer generally
takes place almost immediately. The author stated three instances.
One was of a general, whose troops were surprised and temporarily
panic-stricken, in consequence of his own negligence. He jumped on
horseback, rallied his men, repelled the enemy, and fell dead, sweating
blood. The second case was of a nun who was chased by robbers, and
succeeded in escaping, but on reaching a cottage fell dead, with her face
covered with a sweat of blood. The third case (I am not certain this
did not take place under the author’s immediate notice) was in a London
hospital, a few years before the time of writing (date given); but in this
case the patient, whose symptoms were described at length, lingered for
some little time. I should imagine notes on the subject would be found
in Alford, or any other well annotated edition of St. Luke’s Gospel.”
February 3rd. 0. 0. Massey,
MADAME BLAVAT8KY.
Sir,—The question of Madame Blavatsky’s attitude towards modern
Christianity which Dr. Wyld has raised, not very opportunely, if I
may say so, in your columns, presents an aspect which deserves notice,
and which seems to have escaped Mr. Massey in his otherwise com¬
plete survey of Dr. Wyld’s criticisms. Madame Blavatsky feels with
extraordinary force the mischiefs which arise from “religious despotisms ”
generally. It were easy to cite many of such mischiefs—the discour¬
agement of private judgment, the dry bones of formalism, the checking
|)| of the expansive development of the human spirit, which must have an
j I internal and not an external motive power, the cramping of the will,
! 11 and the degradation of the understanding, which such despotisms tend
|)! to produce, will serve as instances. To quicken the sense of individual
| yj responsibility, and teach men to seek for truth by the aid of the hidden
111 light within themselves, are the first objects of every reformer ; and
I (| among the chief obstacles fo the reception of such lessons will be found
I | the blunt dulness which is the frequent result of a cut-and-dry theological
i system, whereof the underlying truths have been fossilised or obscured,
! | partly by corrupt additions, and partly by the mechanical habit which
j | is born of unintelligent use. He, then, who wishes to show to men the
j I way to appreciate their own spiritual capacities must needs combat all
! l systems so far as they are despotisms; and he may do this with
I j courage, for he need never fear but that the gold will survive, whatever
II i the force of the flame which he may turn upon the alloy. And if a
I (I reformer hits hard, there is no danger but that the Conservative forces of
| ( common opinion will afford a sufficient corrective.
j) If this be at all an accurate, though necessarily a very imperfect,
| i statement of Madame Blavatsky’s view, it will follow that it is only
| > logical for her to join issue with such of these despotisms as may seem
I ( to have served their purpose, and to combat them, at any rate, to the
i | extent of stripping off pretensions to which they can substantiate no real
II claim. Is it not, then, to be expected that Madame Blavatsky, living
j ( in Christian countries, and writing for nominally Christian peoples,
! | should select for attack that despotism under which, in particular, her
11 audience is suffering ? It is not Mohammedanism, or corrupt forms of
| ( Buddhism, or Fetish worship, that chokes the growth of the spiritual life
i j in English-speaking countries. Madame Blavatsky naturally singles
11 out that which she considers to be the special foe of those whom she
I j addresses, and she does this, I take it, not from any exceptional dislike
I) of one despotism more than another, but because this is the enemy with
II whom she happens at the moment to be confronted. No one more fully
j j | than the writer of the letter on “ Mystical Christianity,” which appeared
j) in your columns last week, can appreciate the evil which Madame
I ( j Blavatsky seeks to oppose. A human spirit first awaking to a know-
! ( ledge of its own existence, and groping dimly for guidance and light, is
I j | not seldom seized at once in the toils of a specious system, and finds in
j I | a fool’s paradise a false satisfaction, which bars a progress which would
II otherwise have been probable. A valiant endeavour to remove such a
i) j bar ought not, I think, to be termed r unreasoning and intolerant.”
! '   H. J. H.
| ( Sir,—Mr. Massey considers my description of Madame Blavatsky
f “ excellent, appreciative, and just,” and yet he regrets that I should
! | *i seem to have gone out of my way to censure.”
II I sincerely trust that I have not done so. When Oliver Cromwell
! j | sat for his portrait, he insisted that the artist should put on the canvas
! (j all the warts that were on his face, and the consequence is that we have
j | a most interesting historical portrait.
I ( It would have been an easy and pleasant thing for me to have drawn
j j a one-sided, or as Madame herself would have said a “ flap-doodle”
j j I portrait, but I felt it to be far more interesting, and important, and
III necessary that I should represent the lioness in all the lights and
j ( | shadows of true photographic breadth.
j (j “ H. P. B.” is far too great and strong to object to the honest truth.
|) | She has repeatedly thanked me for my expressed opinions regarding
i | herself, and I shall be indeed surprised if she is offended at my candid
II j portraiture.
What I have written I consider to be entirely true , and Mr. Massey
II j will not for a moment deny that “ H. P. B.” expresses herself towards
|)! Christians and Christianity with an irreverence and intolerance which
| (| are in direct opposition to the doctrine taught by herself, and by those in
j (! the East higher than herself, viz., “ Reverence and forbearance
III towards all truthful and reverential thinkers of all shades of religious
| < | opinion.”
| I With regard to the mysterious age of the pythoness, even on natural
i) | grounds, it does not present to me insuperable difficulties, as I have
j(i seen commonplace women, close on eighty years of age, looking as
\; i young as Madame Blavatsky. But I was told that a secret explanation,
! | j of which Mr. Massey hints that he is in possession, had been withheld
| \ | from me because I was a Christian!
This secret, I am impressed, was revealed in part to my own intuition,
i 11 but however that may be, I received from Madame Blavatsky an ex-
j {| planation which much interested me.
! j | In my paper on “ Man as a Spirit,” read 10th December, 1877, at the
| (I Association of Spiritualists, I stated my belief that if we could, instead
| j j of our ordinary sleep, enjoy the calm deep sleep of the profoundly en-
j | j tranced, we might regain nightly the daily loss of vital force incurred in
| ( | our waking active condition, and thus live to a truly green old age ;
111 and, as a confirmation of this idea, “ H. P. B.” informed me at Norwood
j) j that it was owing to some such process that she regained by night the
j \; daily loss.
111 So much for my portrait of Madame Blavatsky. I must now most
1 j; earnestly protest against the assertion that I use the term Christianity
I i J in a non-natural and misleading sense, and that I cannot consistently
i I! call myself a Christian.
j 11 In reply to the question why I should call myself a Christian, while
! I believing that the central essence of esoteric Brahminism and
j)! Christianity is one, I might ask why should Mr. Massey call himself an
j ( : Englishman, seeing that his initial position is that he is a man ? Of the
>| (j genus homo yes, but not the less of the Caucasian race, and by nation-
|) I ality an Englishman. Even so I believe the fundamental essence of all
i t | religion to be the seeking after the Spirit of God by the spirit of man;
111 but not the less I call myself a Christian, because after thirty years of
i 11 constant study and reflection I find that the life and teachings of Jesus
| (j the Christ far transcend in strength, and wisdom, and knowledge, and
111 power, and truth, and goodness all other individual teaching which the
world has produced, and because from no other source can I find so
10
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 7, 1879.
complete an example of the internal essence and external manifestation j
of that essence in religion and morality combined.
Mr. Massey deeply respects the teaching of Behmen and of St. j
Martin, as do I, hut thinks these men have no more claim to the name j
Christian than I have. But surely, if they do call themselves Christians, ]
they must do so for reasons good to themselves.
To my mind they are profoundly Christian, because they know that |
to be “ in Christ ” signifies to be in the Spirit, and therefore to be one j
with God.
In conclusion, Mr. Massey thinks that I should not call myself a j
Christian, because if I were judged by the creeds of the Churches I j
should be condemned as heretic. Undoubtedly I fear I should; but j
then I do not draw my Christianity exclusively from the teaching of the I
Churches, but from my own laborious study of the life and teachings of |
the Master Himself, whose precepts and example I desire at a humble j
distance to follow. Geokge Wyld, M.D. !
I
' Sib,—In my letter contained in The Spiritualist of January 31st I j
quote from a letter of Madame Blavatsky as contained in the Revue i
Spirite of September; it should have been the Revue Spirite of j
October. I regret the mistake. Scrutator. !
THE ANNIVERSARY OP SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—The thirty-first anniversary of Modern Spiritualism will be
commemorated on Sunday, March 30th, at Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer- 1
street, W. Two meetings will be held on that day, in the morning at ]
10.30, and in the evening at 6.30. The morning will be devoted to a j
conference, in which all are invited to participate. In the evening
addresses will be delivered by some of the leading Spiritualists.
To Spiritualists everywhere, greeting,—Feeling the deepest gratitude i
to God for opening our eyes to the bright sunlight of spiritual com¬
munion, and through that to a sweet assurance of the immortality of !
the soul, the Fatherhood of God, the brotherhood of man, and the holi- j
ness of true living, we ask heartily for the attendance and co-operation j
of Spiritualists and freethinkers everywhere, in order to fitly celebrate j
this anniversary of Modern Spiritualism. Regardless of sex, creed, or j
nationality, desiring only the best thought of the people, we aim not only ]
to encourage true social unity among Spiritualists, but to prove to the |
world that we possess a faith deep and wide enough to hold all
’earnest seekers after truth. Having been taught first, that there 1
is no death, second, that there is a life everlasting, in which the
pure soul grows whiter, the unclean are cleansed, and the sad-hearted
made to rejoice, our ear catches the pathetic command of that dear I
loving Teacher who, long years ago, said to every inspired soul “Feed |
My lambs.’’ Come, then, all ye who thirst, and drink freely, if not of j
the water of life, of our desire to liberate every imprisoned soul, j
whether bound by the shackles of superstition, or by that timidity of
spirit which holds many from claiming their true kinship with the
All Father. Our motto is “ Truth against the world our star in j
the east—Love ; our desire—eternal progress ; our religion—God our j
Father, nature our mother, the world our brothers; science, music,
and the arts—hourly gifts; and heaven our home.
I shall be pleased to hear from any and all who are willing to
assist in this celebration.—Very truly yours, J. W. Fletcher.
4, Bloomsbury-place, W.O.
Sib,—Permit me to say that Dr. Carter Blake’s opinion that Spirit- I
ualism has “ little influence on our ideas about a future lifeand, j
further, that Spiritualism offers a number of physical facts “ in which j
he could not see any moral bearing whatever,” is diametrically opposed |
to the results of my experience and those of all experienced Spiritualists j
that I know. I was fairly astonished to see such a statement advanced |
by a scientific man, who is not devoid of personal experience in the i
matter. It might pass unchallenged if it came from the pen of an IJ
inexperienced investigator of spiritual phenomena, who had the mis- j
fortune never to have witnessed anything beyond the coarse and j
primitive “ physical ” phenomena, with hardly a glimpse of anything j
higher in it which could reveal or confirm Divine truths. We could j
then only have a smile of compassion, and our advice would be to him: j (
Friend, there is no royal road to truth in this or in any other direction; j
patience and perseverance alone lead to ultimate results. But the I
successful pursuit of this branch of science requires, in addition, a |
certain preparation of the mind and heart. If you, in earnest search of |
spiritual truth, strengthen your will to overcome your prejudices, and I
prepare yourself to enter its threshold with pure heart and clean hands, |
taking off your shoes before you enter, like a mortal treading on most |
sacred ground, then you might consider yourself in a fit state for j
receiving communications from the other world, not only of a distinct !
moral bearing, but also such as are likely to influence your ideas of a j j
future life very considerably, unless, indeed, your wisdom be already |
approaching that of a saint. |
Coming from a scientific man, whose public statements on important i
questions carry some weight, influencing the judgment of a number of |
new and less experienced investigators of Spiritualism, it is our duty j
not to let such extraordinary statements pass unchallenged. I will only i
speak for myself, in the first instance, and say that the practical and i
theoretical study of the phenomena of Spiritualism has influenced my j
ideas so much that it has actually turned me from a sincere sceptic |
into a sincere Christian. Spiritualism has worked in me what no !
Church, no Bible, and no priest was able to do. I feel it to be my duty i
to confess this, with a heart full of gratitude towards Providence for j
having cured me from my former spiritual blindness. |
It is true that Spiritualism is not a religion by itself, but it is a Divine j
revelation for the benefit of scientific and other sceptics, showing us I
clearly what is the real essence of religion and truth, teaching us to j
distinguish clearly between the “ wheat and the chaff ’’ in religious >'
doctrines of every description. Or, as “ Scrutator” expresses it (page
33) :—“ One of the inestimable uses of Spiritualism is, that it confirms
what is logical and just in all religions.” And as another correspondent
on the same page says:—“ I conceive the true mission of Spiritualism is
to afford us the 1 proof palpable ’ of the continued existence of the spirit
after the dissolution of the body, and to teach us how to make the best use
of our earth lives. Life is not a probation, but a school for the de¬
velopment and education of the spirit. Creeds are of little consequence,
but the spirit can never attain its full development within the walls of a
convent or a monk’s cell.” This is also my view of the case, which has
been more fully and precisely stated already by Dr. Wyld (on page 21).
I beg his pardon, at the same time, for leaving out of the question here
altogether “ the secret of the Logos,” to avoid useless mystification.
Taking everything into due consideration, it will be evident that there
is not half as much dissension of religious belief in the body called
Spiritualists as Dr. Carter Blake has tried, and failed, to prove. I con¬
fidently call upon the experienced Spiritualists of all shades of religious
confessions on this side of the ocean, as well as on the other, to say
whether the result of their experiments with regard to the moral
bearing of the phenomena of Spiritualism tallies more with ours or with
Mr. Carter Blake’s. By doing so I feel pretty confident that out of
every hundred Spiritualists about ninety-seven will stand by our side,
sharing our view of the matter, and the remaining three, perhaps, will
not even side with him, but entertain some other peculiar theory of their
own make. I venture to say that Dr. Carter Blake will stand almost
isolated with his, evidently most absurd, view, with which not even Miss
Kislingbury agrees, who confesses that to her Spiritualism has been
“ a boon of priceless value.” How could it have been that to her, if
Spiritualism had offered nothing to her but a number of physical facts
without any moral bearing whatever ? If it was so, surely Miss
Kislingbury, myself, and a thousand others, would have long before now
left Spiritualism altogether to the physicists for investigation and expla¬
nation, waiting with perfect equanimity and patience for the result of
their inquiry, as we do the solution of other merely physical problems.
The reason, however, why millions have taken an active interest in the
matter, and why the vast majority of modern physicists and scientists
do not feel inclined to investigate this new territory of physical facts, is
just because the former have “ found ” and the latter have “heard ” that
the facts of Spiritualism carry with them a great moral meaning, and
influence most forcibly our ideas about a future life—a fact not at all
provided for and not admitted in their scientific system of theories.
Thanks to Providence there is already a number of other scientific men
—a number which is daily increasing—who possess the courage of their
opinions, and have studied the subject carefully, having gradually
dropped their preconceived and narrow ideas, and arrived at the same
conclusions as we have. Even among his scientific colleagues the pro¬
pounder of the strange view stands alone, as he deserves.
The instruction to be drawn from the advancement of such peculiar
views by a scientific man is clearly this, that “ wisdom and science are
different things altogether, each of which may be acquired almost inde¬
pendently of the other,” and that it is a great mistake to suppose that
wisdom is necessarily connected with scientific knowledge. A man may
be an expert in some branch of science, and still an obstinate blockhead
with regard to true wisdom. Examples to prove the correctness of this
are plentiful in the present and in the past. Vide Dr. Carpenter,
Haeckel, and other scientists of the same school, in whose writings there
is a profuse amount of scientific knowledge but very little wisdom, and
still less justice and honesty discernible towards their scientific
opponents, with regard to the acknowledgment of plain facts brought
within their knowledge.
If people are still in doubt why Christ did not pick His pupils from
among the learned scribes of His day, they may take for granted that it
was because He did not want to teach science, but wisdom. Well aware
that science creates conceit—the greatest obstacle to the acquisition of
wisdom—He preferred choosing His disciples from the ranks of the most
humble and illiterate, making wiser, better, and abler men of them than
any of the scribes.
There is also prevalent among the class of people to which the learned
doctor belongs, the erroneous notion that only scientific men are capable
and competent investigators and judges about phenomena and facts of
any description. This is another of their little weaknesses, spring¬
ing from the main source of scientific conceit and personal vanity which,
in their want of wisdom, i.e., self-study, they are continually apt to
mistake for love of science on their own part. We should be badly off,
indeed, if we should have to wait, or to submit to the authority of
scientific men our judgment about the moral bearing of spirit
phenomena, and facts of a similar kind, involving problems of greater
consequence to mankind than any scientific discovery and invention
made from the beginning of the world up to the present day.
An aged German professor of natural science, renowned as an author
and for certain scientific discoveries at his time, with whom I am on
terms of friendship, also did not abstain from trying the old trick of
overawing me by the solemn declaration that only scientifically trained
persons were able to observe and judge about physical facts, when I had
communicated some of my experience in spirit phenomena to him. At
last he cut my unwelcome report off with the following remarkable
words :—“ If what you and others tell me were true, and founded upon
fact, I should have to burn all the books I have written within the last
twenty years.” Overpowered by the tragical force of that argument
for the moment, I only ventured to express the consolatory remark that
the books need not all be burnt, but that a thorough revision might
save them from the fire. When Professor Zollner and his learned
scientific friends had taken to the investigation of spiritual phenomena
with Mr. Slade, in Leipzig, and publicly acknowledged the reality of
the various phenomena they had witnessed under strict test conditions
in the light, I was anxious to hear what my friend the professor would
say. On being asked, before he knew what had happened in Leipzig,
Feb. 7, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
71
his opinion about the capacity of Professor Zollner, he instantly replied
with emphasis, “ Zollner is an eminent man of science.” After¬
wards, when told that Professor Zbllner had investigated the
spirit phenomena with Slade, and become convinced that they
were facts, my professor would hardly believe it. Recovering
his composure, however, he coolly declared that Professor Zollner
and friends must have been sadly mistaken or gone mad. Such
is the logic of scientific men when their preconceived ideas are at stake.
They turn against their highly-esteemed colleagues, whom they had
before declared to be the only competent investigators and judges of
physical phenomena and facts. It is the “mania of infallibility,”
which to all appearance has beset the minds of scientists more than
that of the Pope. Some German disciples of Darwin talk as haughtily
as if they were quite sure that “ the limits of nature were identical with
the limits of their mental horizon?' And I dare say there are a good
many scientific pigmies of the same sort on the other side of the
Channel as well as on this. I don’t mean to put the learned doctor,
who has given rise to this letter in reply to his absurd statement, on
the same list with the above-mentioned specimen of his scientific
colleagues, still I cannot deny there is a certain resemblance. I can¬
not help, moreover, observing that I consider his expressions “ horror ”
and “ elusive wild beasts ” quite out of place and uncalled for, as to
my knowledge no such offensive term has been used by any writer
in The Spiritualist against Roman Catholics. It would have been much
wiser if he had stuck to his declaration of being in accord with Mr.
E. Jones on the point of avoiding all sectional religious surmisings;
instead of which he actually sinned against that declaration imme¬
diately after he had made it. More such distinct slips of logical conse¬
quence in his words and deeds, which no amount of Latin phrases and
sophistic reasoning can cover up, are to be found among the doctor’s
letters. I finish for the present with a solemn protest for myself and
friends against the absurd opinion of that gentleman, that Spiritualism
offers nothing but a number of physical facts in which he can see no
moral bearing whatever. G. Wiese.
Wiesbaden, Jan. 27th, 1879.
THE BELIGIOUS ASPECTS OP SPIRITUALISM.
Sib,—One of your correspondents suggests that I write from a
Roman Catholic ” standpoint. This is not the case. Like all intelli¬
gent persons, I am naturally interested in all the powerful and im¬
portant religious communions at home and in foreign lands. Personally
—by temperament and intellectual tastes—I incline to the liberalised,
semi-literary, and humane theological teachings of such Broad Church
divines as F. D. Maurice, Robertson, Stopford Brooke, Harvey, and
Dean Stanley, albeit that I enjoy the rare musical sweetness of devo¬
tional feeling of which Keble’s Christian Year is the refined inspiration.
I also see much to admire in the Romish Church and in English
Nonconformity. J. T. Markley.
3, Park-terrace, Horsham,  
LUNACY LAW ABUSES.
Sib,—Underneath is a proof of the ease with which private asylum
doctors can manufacture lunatics.
It is time that we Spiritualists rouse ourselves to save our mediums,
friends, relatives, and others from the fate of arrest and a lunatic
“character” for life, who, as mediums, are under the influence of
“ ministering spirits.”
Let us, at the anniversary meeting of Spiritualists at Langham
Hall in April, produce proof of wrong done, and by combined action
at that meeting rouse London.
Many medical men are ready to co-operate for a vital change in
the Lunacy Laws.
CROYDON BOARD OP GUARDIANS.
Letters were read from the authorities of the Wandsworth County Lunatic
Asylum, informing the Board of the discharge of Hannah Evans and Catherine
Mercer, chargeable to the union.
Mr. Edridge asked for information respecting the cases in question. He
referred to the case of a young girl he had seen, about eighteen years of age,
who was well spoken, and apparently quite sane, but it was alleged against
her that she had insulted her father and exhibited an excitable temperament.
In his opinion she was not a subject for an asylum. He did not complain of
the union. Upon the magistrates a great responsibility rested, and they had
a great difficulty in dealing with these cases. He (Mr. Edridge) asked for
information upon the cases before them.
Mr. Clapp said magistrates could refuse to sign the certificates.
Mr. Edridge said the magistrates in such cases acted upon the advice of the
physicians. In his opinion there was need for further consultation as to the
use made of lunatic asylums.
Dr. Carpenter said, as a magistrate, he had declined being a party to the
signing of the requisite certificates. The certificate declared that the
person to which it referred was a fit person to be sent off to a lunatic asylum.
In his opinion the majority of cases brought before the magistrates were not
cases to be sent to an asylum, simply because it was thought that lunacy
might develop, although it did not actually exist. Non-medical magistrates
accepted the evidence tendered as sufficient and certified. In his (Dr.
Carpenter’s) opinion the greater portion sent to the lunatic asylum ought not
to be sent there. It was the fault of the law. When told certain things the
non-medical magistrate placed himself in a responsible position if he did not
act upon the evidence and grant a certificate. Many people, finding their
friends troublesome, did not hesitate to make prejudicial statements. The
result was that people were consigned to lunatic asylums who never ought to
have been sent there. In his private capacity he would not accept such
evidence, and he had refused in his official capacity. He suggested a kind of
quarantine or prohibitory ward in connection with the workhouse, in which
doubtful cases might be dealt with. As every one was well aware, it would
not do to send every one of a passionate or eccentric nature to a lunatic asylum,
or they would soon be depopulated.
Mr. Clapp said the greatest and fullest investigation ought to be made before
taking away the liberty of any person. The infirmary would not admit of the
reception of semi-lunatic cases,
The Chairman said it would be best to have a ward devoted to cases of
mental aberration.
Rev. R. M. Browne said the magistrates had great difficulty in ascertaining
whether they ought to sign the certificates presented or not.
Mr. Edridge said such matters ought to be under proper medical super-*
vision. He hoped the relieving officers’ attention would be called to the
subject, and proper arrangements made.
The Chairman stated the matter should be strictly attended to, and tho
subject dropped.
J. Enmobe Jones.
Enmore-park, S.E.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA CONSIDERED BY THE HIGH
COURT OF APPEAL.
The hearing of the arguments in the important will case of Bagot v.
Bagot was resumed on the 29th January, in the High Court of Appeal,
Dublin, before the Lord Chancellor, the Master of the Rolls, the Lord
Chief Baron, and Lord Justice Deasy.
The following are the counsel in the case :—Mr. Macdonogh, Q.C.;
Right Hon. Hugh Law, Q.C.; James Murphy, Q.C.; A. M. Porter,
Q.C.; and T. Pakenham Law, instructed by Messrs. Fry and Son, for
the defendants, who are the appellants. For the plaintiffs—Messrs.
Butt, Q.C., M.P.; S. Walker, Q.C.; John Monroe, Q.C.; and Mr.
Anderson, instructed by Messrs. Kelly and Lloyd. For the inter-
venient—Mr. F. L. Dames, instructed by Messrs. Tisdall and Twibill.
Mr. Macdonogh, Q.C., resumed his argument on behalf of the
defendants, contending that there was misdirection on the part of the
learned judge. The judge, he said, told the jury that he thought a clear
case had been made in favour of the plaintiff on the issue of unsound¬
ness of mind, and yet he refused to tell them what he considered an
insane delusion. The jury remonstrated with the judge, and did not
wish to find against the evidence of the doctors, but they were told that
if they found the man was under an insane delusion as to the paternity
of the child, he would tell them how to frame the verdict. No jury
could resist what they were told, for they were lectured into their
finding by the judge for two days.
The Lord Chief Baron—Is the provision made for the lady expressed
to be in lieu of interest in the personal estate ?
Mr. Macdonogh—It is in these words : “ She is to get £1,000 a year
in lieu of dower, or one-third of the £60,000.” The learned counsel
said what he conceived the judge should have defined as insane delusion
was this, that it was only a belief of things as facts which no rational
person would have believed.
Lord Chief Baron—That is a rational being, but then we come to
irrational, which is quite as difficult.
Mr. Macdonogh—I think not, my lord. If you believe that you were
the Holy Spirit of the Divine Creator of the world, as many unfortunate
persons had—if you believe that that brook of limpid water which
trinkles at your feet is the roaring ocean which you could not essay to
cross—if, as Sir John Nicoll says, you believe that trees could walk or
statues nod—if you believe that the hill before you was a mountain like
the Himalayas, that you never could cross—if you believe all these
things, and that nothing could eradicate those ideas, then it might well
be concluded by rational men that that unhappy sufferer had lost the
very brightest ornament of man—that he is under an insane delusion.
Lord Justice Deasy—Is that quoted from any authority?
Mr. Macdonogh—I am reading my own language.
Lord Justice Deasy—What would you say to the case that Mr. Home,
the Spiritualist, floated in the air, and that a great many people did
believe it ? I will not mention any names.
Mr. Macdonogh—Were they Spiritualists?
Lord Justice Deasy—They beheved they saw him.
Mr. Macdonogh—They were Spiritualists ?
Lord Justice Deasy—Yes.
Mr. Macdonogh—I should like to hear all the circumstances of that
particular case—the belief, and how they believed it, and under what
circumstances, and what foundation there was for the belief.
Master of the Rolls—Absurd opinions are not insanity. Lord
Campbell calls pointed attention to that. The man in that case
mentioned by Lord Campbell had the most absurd opinions.
Mr. Macdonogh said he would endeavour to answer the Lord Justice
by following out the train of thought. He should ascertain what was
the foundation for the belief. Was it an absurd opinion ? If it be, it
might not be insanity at all. The generality of the world believed at
one time that this planet of ours did not travel round the sun. Were
they mad for believing that ? No reason could show that it did circum¬
navigate the sun. Galileo was not deemed to be mad, but was about to
suffer for proving a right opinion. No absurdity of opinion could con¬
stitute insane delusion, yet that was upon subjects upon which men
might form different views. If the thing was a glaring absurdity, such
as he had described that case, it was insane delusion.
Lord Chief Justice—A clever combination of glasses will work
wonders.
The Master of the Rolls said that in several of the Spiritualist cases
men who did not believe in the thing had gone to see the wonders, but
nothing mysterious had been seen by them or the Spiritualists even on
these occasions. He thought it was the subject of a very clever paper
in the Fortnightly Review about two years ago.
Mr. Macdonogh said it was a subject on which he had the most distinct
incredulity—(laughter)—and he was not really capable of dealing with
it. It was impossible for any conjurer to work upon him. (Laughter.)
Let him try his tricks; but he (Mr. Macdonogh) would believe nothing
but what reason would warrant.
Lord Justice Deasy—“ There are more things in heaven and earth
than are dreamt of in your philosophy, Horatio.”'
Mr. Macdonogh—True, my lord, but I confess I have never seen any
of them. (Laughter.)
72
Feb. 7, 1879,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
A RETROSPECT. f
The following article by “ M.A.” (Oxon) recently appeared in the I /
JReligio- Philosophical Journal, Chicago :— j
It is the wisdom of prudent men to endeavour now and again to j I
gather up the lessons that passing events teach them. The end of a 11
year is universally considered to be a time suited for such retrospects, j (
and the present year has been especially fruitful in warnings that^we j j
Spiritualists should heed. Wherever we turn we find that phenomenal |
Spiritualism has been on its trial. In America you have been convulsed | j
by the discovery that a profitable trade has been made out of medium- j j
ship, and you have had much edifying argument joro and con upon the j /
cause. You have not overlooked the fact that the almighty dollar is j i
responsible for much of the mischief. It is plain that, given bewildering I)
phenomena, some of which are easily imitated; given conditions which j
would seem to be specially manufactured for the purpose of facilitating ! !
fraud; given a credulous public and some impecunious adventurers with I
more brains than principle, and you have the materials for the situation | (
in which you find yourselves. j
In England we have not yet got quite so far. We are familiar with | /
the fact that you do things on a more extensive scale in America than i
we can attempt. But the same causes that have produced their effects ] j>
with you are at work among us; for we are made of the same stuff, j
though a little less highly tempered, and, after all, “there is a deal of j
human nature in the worldIf these causes be not attacked, if the !
axe be not laid to the root of the tree, we shall travel the same road. i / j
Now, it ought not to be so difficult as it is to convince people that j ( i
phenomenal Spiritualism, as it is at present conducted in public circles, | j j
is sure to produce a crop of mischief. Nor ought any observant person | / I
to fail to see that this mischief is all the more serious because the evil j ( j
is mingled with the good, because it is so hard to say where the true n j
ends and the false begins. Nor, again, ought any careful observer to fail |
to see that it is extremely difficult, in a given case, to say whether the I |
fraud originates with medium or spirit; whether the invisible operators j |
bring in, for instance, their own stage properties, or whether the medium j j
is their unconscious tool, made to play a part as the mesmeriser governs n L
the actions and words of his helpless subjects ; or whether, again, the I j i
whole business is a financial speculation practised by a shrewd rogue on j i
a gaping audience. And yet, once more, our careful observer ought not j (
to fail to see that we, the sitters at a circle, are largely responsible by j [
our state, by the conditions that we permit, and by both what we do and j (
leave undone, for the character of the manifestations. We may attract j (
to us the elevated and pure, just as we certainly do attract spirits very
much the reverse by our evil tempers and our querulous behaviour, by I I
bringing to our seances bodies surcharged with food and drink. j \ j
There are other points ; but enough has been said to show that the i j j
fixing the saddle on the right horse is not always easy. Indeed, I may j) j
say that no problem that I know of presents more difficulties; and that j (|
I know none in which cutting the knot is at once so easy and so mis- j > j
leading. We want a deal of patience to unravel the difficulty; and all j | j
our patience will not serve without much antecedent knowledge.
But one or two things are clear: ; j
1. The results that we have obtained from public Spiritualism here- j j
tofore are not encouraging, and point to something wrong in our j j j
methods. )
2. When we look the question fairly in the face we find that, in a p||
majority of cases, the cabinet is the great engine of imposture, as well j) j
as the great obstacle to careful investigation. I have been present at a / j
great number of cabinet stances, and the general result in my mind is ( j
bewilderment and disappointment. No sane observer, without antece- j i j
dent knowledge on the subject of spirit-intercourse, ought to be j) j
expected to accept as proven any fact in the phenomenal Spiritualism j
on the evidence ordinarily furnished by a cabinet seance. Still less ought j) |
to be expected to assent to that most portentous fact which is )j
called materialisation or form manifestation. j (j
3. Public mediums, of approved power and of hitherto untarnished j ]
honesty, are falling victims to this state of things. Let them, and all j
who value their good name as mediums, insist upon sitting in public j j
only on the most unequivocal conditions. Let them insist on this as 1
due to themselves, or as sensitives who are subject to an influence out- | (i
side of themselves, under which they are not the guides of their own i) j
actions. And let us who investigate aid them by declining to receive |) j
evidence on any other than these unequivocal conditions. If pro- i
miscuous dark stances were sternly discountenanced by respectable i j j
investigators, they would soon die the death. j j
4. And when all this has been done by way of purification, we shall | j
always be liable to fraud and buffoonery until we purify ourselves; 1 (|
until we try to raise ourselves to the plane of spirit, instead of trying to | |
bring spirit down to the plane of matter. We must recognise ourselves I |
as factors in the manifestations, and study the spiritual conditions j) \
under which we can best come into relations with the progressed spirits, I''
who alone can do us service, and leave us the better for the intercourse.
This side of the question has been too much overlooked. We have
not regarded the spiritual, the religious aspect if you will, at all !
sufficiently.
We must go outside the ranks of Spiritualism proper to measure the !
religious influence that it has exerted and is exerting in an ever-
increasing degree. The whole fabric of modern thought is interpene¬
trated with the outcoming of its teachings. One meets it everywhere, j
Old dogmas and the erections that man has built upon them are sapped
by it, and the crazy old edifice comes rattling about his ears. Here,
again, you have outstripped us. But who believes now that this body
of flesh, the seat of so many aches and pains, the cause of so much
daily care, the incentive to so much that is earthly, sensual, devilish, j
will be raised up to trouble him again at some far distant day of j
judgment ? j
Who believes now that if he does what ecclesiastical corporations I
have dogmatically decided to be wrong, or if he refuses his assent to all
their dogmas in a bundle, that his body will be perpetually burned in a
material hell 1
Who believes now in the curious psalm-singing, which was the
believer’s heaven, but which most of us would find something very
much the reverse of the beatific vision?
Who does not see that these dogmas are dead and inoperative, and
that we are in the very throes of the birth of a new and a better era,
when a simpler and a sublimer faith will be ours ? Who does not trace
the genesis of that faith to the new daring of men to think for them¬
selves ? And who does not see that that liberty wherewith we are made
free, is one of the most blessed products of what we loosely call
Spiritualism ?
Wherefore, as the end of the year’s retrospect, may the Christmas
bells
Ring out the old ! ring in the new!
Ring out the false, ring in the true !
Ring out a slowly dying cause,
And ancient forms of party strife ;
Ring in the nobler modes of life.
With sweeter manners, purer laws.
Ring out old shapes of foul disease,
Ring out the narrowing lust of gold;
Ring out the thousand wars of old,
Ring in the thousand years of peace.
Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the National Association of
Spiritualists, will occupy the chair at Mr. J. William Fletcher’s lecture
next Sunday, at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, London, W.
The subject will be, “ Physical Manifestations.” Miss C. Leslie
Younge leads in the singing.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
C. S.—We do not print anonymous letters recommending anybody profession¬
ally engaged ; the publicly verified details of important cases stand in
another position.
Will be ready in a few days,
SPIRIT-IDENTITY,
By M.A. (Oxon).
Cloth 8vq, red edges, price 5s,' post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL ”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price 3s. fid. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. fid,, post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
11 Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London,
THE SPIRITUALIST
in
Feb. 7, 1879.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[Eor purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
RESEAECHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Orookos, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, E.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor oi
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BT ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.”
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer „ IV. „
The Thinker. „ V. . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man: or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Conoerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . ,
Morning Lectures ....
s. d.
IS 0
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spikitdalist Newspaper . 2 6
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . ' . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind;; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer,M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople . ... 1 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Oontaining instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
800 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOE DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says;—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
Strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to f drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, oontaining instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr, Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Han-ison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Dane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality1.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt —
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XvIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
earriage.paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, JEl 10s
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON), ’ ON
PSYCHO GRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject,
Preface.
Introduction.
Psyehography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
Oeneral Corroborative Evidence.
1. —That Attested by the Senses:—
Ti Of Sight Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidenee of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J.L. O’Sullivan
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
I’sychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wvld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing In Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London, "W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
Price 8s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post tree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of ihe
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship oi Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L, Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship ot
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium
ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stoliop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life oj Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals
By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI—Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A.
Oxon.”
XVII Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adeima Von Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burae.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—‘‘ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII —The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon."
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXI11.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV. — The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“ M.A, Oa.on.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—ThePredicdo-n. By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis¬
lingbury
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W.H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. Bv Alex.
Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
IV
THE. £ PI HIT IT A LIST.
Eeb. 7; 1879
THE TEAPPED MEDIUM; QR,XHE*XWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS, ,, A pamplj]et**by^Cbj’istian
Reimers. — This brochure^corA&ms a. sene^: of iUlustfations,
setting forth the exciting adVehtures-'ot-Professor Molecule,
E.R.S., X.Y.Z„B.I.Q-.A(S.S., andfhisji^s^ipttilht^Df. Protgjjlaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual'Phenomena. It is|'anj excel¬
lent little book for distribution'’amoAg'Sciemiflc men arid dis¬
believers in Spiritualism.genemlly.WA-treview ofiit in-,The
Spiritualist newspaper says thaUthc pp,r^phlet 'displp,ya4real
genius. Price 6d.: !pos't free,' 6Jd^ Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Lunacy -daw amendment society,
4, .Wine Of^cercoiat, Ejegt-street.‘^OfflceAhmjrsodaiily
between 11 and, 3r(Saturdays,ill'arid il). ♦•Secretar'yfJanies
Rillington, who will receive all letters for Mrs.'Weldon.' *
MBS. PAKKEK’S NEW ART .OF; HEALING.
(Scientific, Psychological, and Restorative.) 1
22, HART STREET, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, W.O,,
N.B.—References to eminent medical gentlemen. , LI
Lectures to'Ladies on Wednesdays,'at 3 o’clock: subject,
“ Health.’V Her Tonic for the Skin ogives youth and bloom,
instead'of.age and wrinkles. When conditions are favourable
Mrs. Parker is clairvoyant.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND}MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
; By EUGENE CROWELL,' M.D.
. One of the best.books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for^manyiyears, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomeria’ for*
a lengthened period^and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented;
In two vols, price 10s.,6d. each; postage 8d. per volume. ’
London: Spiritmlist' Newspaper. Branch Office. -
INFORMATION FOE INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through - all ‘the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents,'arid about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular, abuse-which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts wore,
true, that the raps and other noises governed byatatelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the.pre- ,
sence of mediurris without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal!
of Science, deviser of the radiometer, and discoverer of the
new metal thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit-,
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr. CromwellVarley, Prof.’Ziillner,' arid a great;
number of intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.-
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin»
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.1 ■
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, arid men 1
of science that the alleged' phenoine'na' are jugglery are,,
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily • obtained by private families^ with no stranger.,
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical1 phenomena in all Great *
Britain, consequently, if these were all 'tricksters (which they
are not), they are so few in number‘as, to be unable, to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great.mpye-
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect, them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that‘the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple, home, experiments 1
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities. '
One or more persons possessing medial powers without J
knowing it are to be found in nearly every„bousehold, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall-be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle; ■
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, ,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subclned.'light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round .an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the1 hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do. • ‘ '
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither Ci
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,1' and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances •
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
“ . g >IflStfBhbl|ahBnl
Price Seven Siblings and Sixpence, post free, CrownivOjXichly gilt,
l tS-e JLiH Y* L A Y 3 P
••iAiNjD^P RO.S Et I,M A GI N IR.G S * f
’ ■ BYfwILIIAM H. HAUMS0N.
An Elegant and Amusing’Gift-Book of PoeScal and Prose
,M ,*• jnWfitihgs, Grave and-Gay; ,1 ■ JL
The gilt device on the; cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the"
Author. _ , V o
' Contents.
Paws l.—Miscellaneous Ppems and Prose Writings.
. 1. * The LayVoffthe • Lazy Author.—2. The Song<of,the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The “.Sang of the Pawnbroker.—4.'The./Castle,^f5.*®ije
Lay of the'Fat .Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7AHowjSladji
Al Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji^M ShEjeabac,
a .gentleman-' who visited London on business conne6tedTwith* a
Turkish Loan; to AH Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief oT thetCol-
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The 'Laytiof'th'e
Broad-Biiippied* Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—KVibThe^-Lay. ofAthe
-Martetjtfjajrqener.—ll..“Fast Falls the.Eventide^—i2.v£>tH! Raven.
—IS^Maperialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of.,the,Photosraipher.—
14..Hpw’-toSDouble the -.Utility of the#pointing.iPress^iS. The
•Song bf the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-beweyuftg£-'Vi. .SPoor' Old
-Joe! ~18.-The Human Hive.—19. The'Iif$‘*oP!lm? MMMJSweraA-
i 20.V A Rove»Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the’ Lim<&.'”—23.*The
’AngelTof Silence. - . > <
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
| 24. vThe Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
^ " ‘ 1 From The Morning Post,
■ The Marrying; Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review.nearly a,column long, says:—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves"the “epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing ofthe past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy-an innocent laugh.- Not that his muse
restyictiherself only(,to such lighter utterances ;' on the contrary;
some of his’poems touch on the deepest and.most,sac&eri‘feelings
of our.common humanity.t. .;. The unfortpnate^Hadj.i’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the.magicianssbt,Whitecnap.el is. quite
■ one‘6f,'t'he fuiiniest thingsThat has been published .for years.,.
The !bo'ok contains quite enough to ensurei’it 'a welcomeffrom
which*its tasteful appearance will not dety,act.’.’'i;'The*/l/df)M'wg ,
•Post says of-27i« Wooblejaw Ballads:—“No’'b'ne',cariihtilpTaughing
at,them,’t’ and.it says that the.rhymes-are pitched in fVs#mething 1
likeithe same key” as The Bon Oaultiep’iBallads pjpZwe Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successfulresult.”, -, ■ |
Prom The Court Journal. ‘ '
“All are of marked ability.. Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the'author possesses the pure poetic ,
gift.’’ .■ i i .
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate- genuine,''unforced humour should
not fail (o read The Lazy‘Lays and Prose Imaginings. . Written,
printed, published and.reyiewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-sti;eqtj.7. Both j-tlie.verses anij. tlie short gssays are really
funny, mid'iri some‘of the'latter there Ts'a vein of geniaL-satire
whiclradds.pjquancyjo the fun, The Lay ofthe Newspaper ^Editor
is capital? if rather'sevrire,' andso. is The LaJ-ofthp macebea/rers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went'.to.he,pho.tographpd.” |       .,.  t
From Publip Opinion,
“A vohiffieAfremarkably'good Verse..'Some of the metrical
legends'reminai'us of fhe: wild chartt^that used to be sung at the
meetings pf)the;Cannibal«Clqb,.some ten or fifteen years ago,- Mi-.
Harrison, however,>knows wh'efe to-plant his fun, aiid-an accu¬
rate scientific, mind,like.his canjnake jokes .with success;, To
all who’wisir to .read afioieasant-wilume wwlgnhhiently-.got up 'as a
gift-book, we commend Yrte Lazy Lai/s."
t , ProrNThe Bookseller.
“’Arilodd’bnt ihostbentertdining assortment' of quaint and
humorous :fancies,?sc«rie'in-verse'and others in prose, and all
written 'with.-fa fluentfahd Rot; ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour wMch permeates them is genuine, rich) and original, and
not at all ill-natured.” , ■
From Nature,
S ci’entifl c*in erf 'and riiatters are in one or two cases alluded to,,
and ..the- imprint; bears , that the work is published ‘;a.d. 1877
(popular,ciirohblogyli;; a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; A;M_ 50,800,0771
(IJuxiey)..’,; We. believe that; our readers may derive a little
; amuseinent from aperusal of the volume.”
* ■ u Prom The British'Journal of Photography’: ■
“ The Lazy Lays include'many admirably pieces, some of which
I are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
• all of them excellent..,. The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing redding for an occasional spare half-hortr.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or. in bad taste.”
• From The Dublin University Magazine,
| “ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
I is well done.; ‘.TBoun’d in a edvef of somewhat powerful design.”
'-Prom The Photographic News.
i “ Mr. W; H/ Harrison1, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic,and other scientific literature, has
Icolisider'ahle fafeility of versification, arid deals) in'pledsant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“ In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
jthere is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of soUd sense.”
From The Bradf ord Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most-welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ wfil be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If om readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier. ■
■ “ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
With the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while' offending
tone.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial’ press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us ofthe Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself, gome of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reU-
gious sentiment and poetic feeUng which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to ,o,ur not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays,"
From The Bristol Daily Posii ®jSv(
“A curious collection of verses,andJprose'essays offunequa
merit..... The serious and sentimeintalVersas belong to the typo
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”,
« From The Kensington^News.
«« It is “ after the manner of l)arham,,Hood,s Mark Twain, or any
.of,those merry souls who do quite as rmjphjgqodi in their day and
generation as the authors of the mostserlous works.' The Lays
,are. always original, sometimes serious,, generally comic, but
never vulgar.” T 1
From The Malvern News.
t‘‘ “It,is,-in fitself a work of itself—original, and a Cast of .its
author’^'mind. It is a work of great power and beauty ;i full of
lively,(imaginings and hold outspoken‘"thoughts, abounding ip
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
.thatrtri&yibdtread'many times over... The get-up ofthe book ig
very handsome.” " ,
» uU i Pppya The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches,-and, poems, among the latter
being a series of papeys entitled-, Trie Wopblejaw Ballads,.wthcU.
appeared" i n * the 'columns ‘of -this paper) a short time ago,
and whichi created istich^’a furore’, nt,- Aho time.” I N.B. An
irate member, of the down > CounciBoffiAially calledthe attention of
the Mayor.and Corporation, of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
‘■‘..Wohbl&jdwBallaasTJilit^the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
d^dnot^mind them.]’. .'. “Tt (Cpn^ains-.;some very-choice poems
'anir prose essays, ishound in cloth richly,gilt, and has an original
'design of no ordinary merit on the cover.” '' 1
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, Vy.C,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA;-
| OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the Zafe WM. Gre&ory, M.D., F.R.S.E.,'Pro/easor 0/
Ghemistry at Edinburgh University, > •
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this'country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just’published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free ; or five copies
post' free for'21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf,' with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
contents.
\ CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Pfpcess ■ for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Bleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain. •
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings’ln the Look
arid Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
1 CHAPTER III : — Sympathy—Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy-with-, the Bystanders —Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuitifcn—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.*
: CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
; CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre-
: dieted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of* Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
andRrevision—Peculiarities of Speech, and of Consciousness in Mes-
‘ merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electrb-Biotogy, Electro-Psychology
and-Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
! Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author's Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must he Studied.
CHAPTER-VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced ,at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
i Extasis—Extatics riot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
ofteri Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s ExtatiCs—Visions of the S ii ritual
World.-
■ CHAPTER-VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of i'nrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head, in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animajs' Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals'—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
* CHAPTER IXAction of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—Hisudyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications o.
Mesmerism—Phsysidlogical, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan
, ity. Magic, Divinatioh, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to‘Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably tlfe Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subieet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcrait—The Magic Crystal, ana Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
. CHAPTER XI —Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method —Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep-Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance-Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.1
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’i: Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr. London, and published by E. W Allen, Ayq
Maria-lane, London JS.O,
