Keoistebed as a Newspaper.
0^ f>^YCSOI<OG[ldSl<
tott| S^rntwali^m m $n%t ^ritaitr.
NO. 368. (VOL.XV.—No. 11.) LONDON; FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Just Published.
AN ILLUSTRATED BROADSIDE ENTITLED
THE WOOERS OE LAMPORT, ETC.,
By SIR CHARLES ISHAM, Bart.
Price Three Halfpence, Post Free; or Ten for One Shilling.
2,000 Copies sold in two days.
PROFITS FOR ORPHANAGE.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Bamport Hall, Northampton.
THE THE0S0PHIST, ~~~
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. B. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of * The Theosophist,' ” at the above address.
Now Ready.
The THIRD EDITION of Vol. I. of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
MECHAIISI OP MAR. ;/
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Vol. II., completing the work, and treating of “ The Mechanism in Action,’
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
JAMES IALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 12, 1879.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited -by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner and Oo., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
CONTENTS:—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : its Place and Function
—Religion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism—The Philosophy of Inspiration and
Revelation—Christianity : its Place and Human Elements.
London: Trubner and Co,, 67 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
DR. NICHOLS’ FOOD OF HEALTH.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &c.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &c.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 6s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
N.B.—Mr. Williams’s temporary address during
alterations in the above premises is 13, Milman-street,
W.O. (corner of new Ormond-street).
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At home every day except Sunday),
Will lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-
street, every Sunday night,
MR. F, OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
164, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Ohnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions,
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped'directed envelope for reply.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps, At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 178
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business—Mondays, Wednesdays
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
-\totice of REMOVAL TO 31,
IX NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER has arranged for seances on Tuesday and
Friday afternoons, at four o’clock precisely. At home
for private sittings and mesmeric treatment; de¬
velopment for clairvoyance and other forms of
mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily; and eight
to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Magnetised by the Breath. Fee 2s. Cd.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIR VOYANTE and HEALING MEDIUM
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair ; sex and
age required. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism,
Specialities. At home from 12 till 5 p.m. Patients
treated at their homes when desired. 99, Park-street,
Grosvenor-square, London, W. ,
FOLKESTONE.—Comfortable Lodg-
ings on moderate terms. References to Spirit¬
ualists can be given. E. Newman, 11, St. Miohael’s-
terrace, Folkestone,
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8 vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
$, ixf #1 3StMt)S ftf Spitito^Ustw,
No. 368,—Vox.ujviE fifteen; Number eleven,
LOISTDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12t h, 1879.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARDISON.
83, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia, Duke of Leuehtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Yon Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Oapt. B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
C. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Oalder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Oloott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D,
The Bev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jenoken, Esq., M.B.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein I
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hoi- I
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly i
American Minister at the Court of i
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu- i
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M. |
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con- i
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal o f Science. \
C. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.B.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A. i
(Oxon).
J.M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, Esq., M.D., j
Melbourne.
J. 0. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Soi., Lee- j
turer on Comparative Anatomy at j
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E. j
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can- I
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.B.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Marlineau,
The Spiritualist has & steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Boyal, Paris; 2, Liudonstras.se,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Bue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Runner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Ohioago; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
rpHE SOUL OU THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed, clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 83, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
A HAUNTED HOUSE AT THE HAGUE.
BY ADELBEBTH DE BOURBON, FIRST LIEUT. OF THE DUTCH
GUARD TO H.M. THE KING OF THE NETHERLANDS.
Some months ago Baron H died at an advanced
age. He belonged to the oldest of the nobility of
Holland. His house, which is situated in one of our
most beautiful walks, the so-called Yoorhout, was
sold soon after his death, and then let to the new
secretary of the E Embassy, Mr. C . This
gentleman, after having arranged everything in the
house, returned to England on some errand or other,
and left his wife behind, saying he would return in a
few days. What I am now- going to relate I received
from one of my brother officers, Baron B , who
had it from the son of the deceased Baron H——.
On the night upon which Mr. C——, the secretary,
left for England, Mrs. C awoke while in bed, and
saw at the end of the bed a friendly old gentleman
in plain clothes, who smiled at her. She turned
round, and thought it was a dream or something of
the kind. The third and fourth night the same
thing occurred, and so on until her husband came
back. She, however, did not tell him anything,
fearing to be laughed at. But one morning her
husband said to her that he had not slept well. He
had awoke in the night and thought he saw an old
gentleman sitting at the further end of the bed they
were sleeping in. His wife then told him that she
had seen the same thing, but had not liked to tell
him for fear of being laughed at. Some days later
they seem to have had occasion to mention the fact
to the son of the deceased Baron H , who asked
for their description of the old gentleman. After
they had given it, Baron H said, “Well, he
my father; look, here is his photograph.”
And so it was.
Last week I was at a dinner party at the house of
one of my friends, to whose wife, who does not believe
in Spiritualism (she is a very orthodox Protestant), I
had mentioned the fact when it happened some weeks
previously. I asked her (as she knows Baron II ,
who is adjutant to the king), “Well, madame, what
of the spirit in the house in the Yoorhout ?” She
said, “Well, it is all true ; but please don’t talk to
me about it.” It seems that the spirit of the old
Baron does not like to leave his home, as the
apparition seems to have been seen again a few days
ago.
The Hague, Sept. 7th, 1879.
Several of the Papuan tribes wear artificial tails, made of
grass; but do not encumber themselves with clothing. The
editor of Nature suggests that the “link” which Darwin could
not find became extinct in New Guinea at a comparatively recent
period, and these descendants keep up the ancestral tradition by
thus simulating their distinguishing characteristic,
122
THE SPIRITUALIST.
HAVE DOGS CLAIEYOYANT POWERS ?
(To the Editor of the “ Neio Yorh Sim.”)
Sib,—My eldest brother, a farmer, lives in the
western part of Pennsylvania, and among the outfits
of his establishment was a black and tan dog of
uncommon sagacity. At the outbreak of the war of
the Rebellion two of my brothers’ sons, mere boys,
joined the Army of the Potomac. In an angle of the
public road in front of his house was a considerable
mound, formed of the waste of many woodpiles
during successive years. From this angle the road
turned southward, and by it the boys went forth to
join their regiment. Seated on that mound, Priam—
that was the dog’s name—silently Avatched their
departure until they were lost to view in the distance.
Then he went back to his lair, and there he lay for
many days, unusually quiet and evidently sorrowing.
After a month or more had passed in this way, one
day Priam ran out from his seclusion, took his place
on that mound, and facing southwardly cried like a
human being in distress for about two hours. Then
he went back to his lair and was quiet. Some days
afterwards letters from the boys were received. They
were in a battle at the time of the dog’s demonstra¬
tion, but came through unhurt.
These contemporary facts were strange suggestions
to the family that Priam possessed some quality of
knowing those distant occurrences at the time of
them ; but still it Avas too unlikely for belief just
then. His strange belief on that day was, however,
substantially repeated during every subsequent battle
in which the boys participated until they ended their
lives in the Andersonville prison pen.
The dog’s last outburst of lamentation Avas nearly
continuous from the beginning of the battle in which
the lads were captured until their death. After this
Priam became exceedingly surly and cross to all
comers. No matter how near a neighbour lived, or
how well known, the dog denied that neighbour
entrance to the premises until called off by one of the
family.
In 1869 I visited my brother for the first time in
forty-two years. Of course, I was as a total stranger
to all of them. The family kneAV of me only by
hearsay. The dog knew nothing, unless, indeed, he
understood what was said by the family when I hap¬
pened to be their theme. My expected visit about
that time doubtless gave me a prominence in that
particular which multiplied his opportunities of
learning something about me ; and if he knew what
they said he was equally prepared with them to
expect me.
As I walked down the lane to my brother’s house I
noticed a dog (it was Priam) looking me square in
the face over the gate. Without hesitation I un¬
fastened and went inside. The dog turned and
trotted up the steps before me, gently wagging his
tail, and occasionally looking back at me as though to
see whether I understood him, and was coming. The
front door being open, he led the way through the
house to one of the back doors, and there we found
an elderly lady, my brother’s wife. Forgetting the
dog in the greetings, I did not notice how or when he
went out; but soon afterward I saw him at the front
gate again, as when I approached it. This single
and isolated suspension of his surly aggressiveness in
letting me, a total stranger, enter the premises un¬
Sept. 12, 1879.
challenged furnished another theme for speculation
as to its meaning, and the conclusion was that
Priam recognised in my countenance, which he had
scanned so closely, a relative of his master’s family.
Now, how are we to account for the more than
human sagacity of Priam in all that, and especially
his synchronous lamentations Avith the battles in
which his two young masters participated, and never
a false alarm nor an omission ? W. J. C,
Keokuk, Iowa, July 29, 1879.
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
VARIETIES OF MEDIUMSHIP.
Me. J. Tyebman gave a lecture on “Mediumship ;
or, Hoav to Communicate with Departed Spirits,” in
the Liedertafel Hall, Flinders-street, Adelaide, on
Friday evening, July 4th. There was a large
attendance. Mr. T. Oliver occupied the chair.
The lecturer commenced by announcing the possi¬
bility of communication with departed spirits, on
which subject he had given a previous lecture, and
proceeded to describe the various methods by which
this communication was effected. The word “ medium ”
had a bad sound in the ears of the general public, for
it suggested imposture. They had been taught by
the vilifiers of Spiritualism that the whole thing
known as mediumship was a gigantic swindle, and the
opponents of the movement were always doing their
best to expose it, as they professed, in the interests
of truth, morality, and religion. The lecturer asked
his audience to disabuse their minds of the popular
prejudice respecting Spiritualism and its phenomena,
and to approach the question with a mind as far as
possible unbiassed in order that they might ascertain
its true merits. He then dealt with the various
erroneous impressions which existed in the minds of
those ignorant of the subject concerning mediumship.
A medium had not the power to summon spirits from
the other Avorld at will, for the simple reason that the
inhabitants of the realm beyond this life were as much
free agents as they were in this state of existence,
and they might not be aware of the desire to com¬
municate with those so far removed from them, or if
aware might be disinclined to come. It was a mistake
to regard Spiritualism as a species of supernaturalism,
and mediumship itself as a supernatural gift. A
study of the phenomena could lead only to one con¬
clusion, viz., that the manifestations were thoroughly
in harmony with the laws of nature, and that spiritual
communications depended on natural conditions as
well as every other kind of known phenomena.
Spiritualism, as ordinarily understood, was recent in
its origin, and the phenomena had not yet been fully
and scientifically inquired into, but the manifestations
themselves were as old as history, and the Bible and
Church histories abounded with the records of what
had been wrongly called miraculous occurrences.
There was a common impression that the spiritual
phenomena so recorded were limited in their design,
having fulfilled which they ceased to recur, but since
the discovery that these manifestations were in har¬
mony with natural laws a greater degree of attention
had been paid to them, and they were now examined
in a scientific spirit.
Some of the principles by which these phenomena
were regulated were now tolerably understood, and
Sept. 12, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
123
as time rolled on there could be no doubt that a
regular system of communication between the two
worlds would be established. It was often asked
why, if spirit communion was possible, did not spirits
communicate directly with individuals interested and
not through mediums; but when it was once
thoroughly understood that these phenomena were
governed by natural laws, it would be seen that
spirits could not accomplish impossibilities, and that
the instrumentality of mediums was a condition
necessary for the occurrence of the manifestations.
Mediumship must be included in the category of rare
gifts nature had bestowed on certain individuals, and
it would be just as reasonable to ask why were not
all men born poets, orators, or musicians, as why
were not all men born mediums. A'medium was a
person of a peculiar physical organisation or tem¬
perament.
It had been shown that when a number of persons
sat together in a circle each of them gave off some
of the emanations necessary for spirit manifestations,
and this force was utilised by the spirits through the
medium.
The lecturer proceeded to refer to various phases
of mediumship as they had been classed by Andrew
Jackson Davis, and said the rudimentary phenomena
usually consisted of table-rappings and tiltings, by
means of which communication could be obtained.
When the gift of mediumship had been developed it
in some cases assumed the form of writing medium-
ship, which was of three kinds — impressional,
mechanical, and direct. When it was impressional
the medium received an impression from the spirit on
his brain, and wrote by his own hand whatever
message they desired to give ; when it was mechanical
the spirit literally used the hand of the medium in
the same Avay as one would guide the hand of a child
writing, and the medium had not the slightest know¬
ledge of the writing thus obtained, which was in
many instances a fac-simile of the handwriting of
departed friends ; when the writing was direct, which
was of rare occurrence, the spirit wrote without the
use of the medium’s hand at all.
Incipient writing mediumship was shown by the
shaking of the hand, and in that case a pencil should
be given to the medium. The writing at first would
be scrawling and illegible, but eventually would
become quite plain. Trance mediumship was a phase
in which the medium was controlled by the spirit
much in the same way as the mesmerist controlled
his subject, the sole difference being that while the
operator in one case was seen, in the other he was
invisible. Other phases of mediumship were clair¬
voyance, or the seeing of spirits with the spiritual
eye ; clairaudience, or the hearing of the spirits with
the spiritual ear ; personating mediumship, in which
phase the peculiarities of the deportment were repro¬
duced ; and materialisations, in which the spirit
sometimes clothed itself in a material form capable of
being tested by all the senses. There were many
other phases of mediumship, such as those in which
the movement of material bodies without contact
occurred, and some which he had not time to indicate.
The lecturer concluded by giving advice as to the
formation of investigating circles. He said the
inquirers should sit round a table for an hour one
evening every week, and reducing themselves as far as
possible to a state of mental passivity await the
result. It was necessary that as much harmony as
possible should be secured, and when manifestations
occurred they should be treated as if guided by an
intelligence. The mode of communication adopted
would depend to a great extent on the form of
mediumship exhibited. If table tilting or raps
occurred, the alphabet should be called over, and the
spirits would spell out sentences by means of tilts or
raps. Great perseverance in some cases might be
required, but in event of failure the circle should be
rearranged, and in any case the sitters should com¬
mence investigations in a proper spirit, and be pre¬
pared to give the matter a good trial before ceasing
their experiments.
THE “ NEWCASTLE DAILY EXAMINER.”
The Newcastle Daily Examiner, of August 22nd,
says in a leading article:—
“Rival creeds have no foundation save that of
theory, no vertebra save that of tradition and habit.
Spiritualism, on the other hand, has positive demon¬
stration for its bulwark, and appeals to the senses, the
reason, the memory, the heart, in support of its
claims to credence. . . . There is but little difference
between the hypocrisy of the holy man who preaches
the gospel on the Sunday and faithfully serves His
Satanic Majesty in various ways during the week, and
the clever rogue who pretends to be a medium, but
is only an unprincipled charlatan. If there be a
difference it is in favour of Spiritualism, inasmuch as
the pulpit-hypocrite’s stock-in-trade is a wordy faith,
’and the Spiritualist’s stock-in-trade is demonstrated,
palpable facts, the imitation of which cannot long
escape detection. Spiritualism is making vast strides
towards the vitality of its giant days, hidden in the
gloom of the long ago. It numbers among its
believers and adherents men of intellect, position,
and probity—men who would scorn to sell their
manhood or their honour for the pottage-mess of
being identified with a sensation, and who have
publicly and privately proved and acknowledged the
reason of the hope that is in them. Spiritualism—
pure, genuine, and rightly understood—is yet destined
to subvert the fossil theories of orthodoxy, and give
to man a new and living faith, encircling him
with the highest moral influences while on earth, and
tangibly linking him with the higher and purer life
beyond.
The Lunacy Laws.—The present law which allows a patient
to be sent to an asylum merely on the certificates of two medical
men is decidedly objectionable. We admit that, as a rule, the
medical profession consists of upright and honourable men, but,
then there are exceptions, as there are in the case of every other
profession, and the public should be protected as much as possible
from those whose ignorance or bad principles would, if unchecked,
further the designs of wicked relatives. Besides, the signing of
a lunacy certificate is a responsibility which should not be thrown
upon the shoulder of any medical practitioner, and, generally
speaking, medical men are very glad to shirk a practice which,
while it is of very little profit to them, may give them a good
deal of trouble and annoyance. • There are several ways in which
the present plan might be altered for the better. But leaving
this subject for another occasion, we could only now express our
regret that the Commissioners in Lunacy have not thought
proper to do something more than make a few trivial suggestions
with regard to the amendment of our lunacy laws.—Medical
Press and Circular*
124 THE SPIR
EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM.
;
BY ALICE GORDON. v ,• ■)'{ jV
(Concluded.) i
Fourth seance, afternoon.—Sitters: Mr. and Mrs. ||
W., Lieutenant-Colonel and Mrs. Gordon. Medium |J
sitting same as last. Mr. W. sat on one side of h
medium, myself the other; we formed circle round |;
the table and joined hands. In a few minutes the |(
hand-bell was taken up, and rung over our heads |>
loudly. The musical box was wound by the spirit, K
and carried round the room. Mrs. W. got frightened |
on finding that the imposture theory could not ;
explain what was taking place, and concluded evil |)
forces must be at work, so begged to be allowed to k
go out of the room. £< Charley” then said it would n
do her good to stay, but this only alarmed her more. | <
So we had to break up, and let her out. A thunder- j j
storm now began, and atmospheric disturbances are j \
against physical manifestations, and breaking the I)
circle stopped everything for some time. I several ]|
times inquired whether we should continue sitting, j)
and got affirmative raps. At last u Charley ” spoke j (
and said the weather was bad, and he could not do |)
much. He asked me if I had anything spiritualistic j|
downstairs, meaning anything which had been used j)
during seances or handled by mediums. I remem- )(
bered I had some photos said do be spirit photos; j)
I mentioned these, and where they were in the K
dining-room, and he said, “All right, 1*11 bring you |j
one.” Now let' me say that the medium came j
straight from the street door to the drawing-room, j)
and was never out of sight one moment. A few k
trifling things were now done, and we were told to light. | /
up and look on the floor a little distance from the <
table, and there was a photo. I had said while we |)
were sitting, that though I had heard of things being [y
brought through closed doors, I had not yet in my j)
own house had this experience; so I conclude this | y
was done to gratify my wish. I had seen a mass of | /
beautiful fresh and scented flowers brought in another | y
house, and knew such things could be done. I must \)
beg my readers not to be impatient at the recital of ! j
such apparent impossibilities. I remember my own |)
feelings when I heard Spiritualists talking of matter j\
passing through matter, and one gentleman remarked |)
they could say with Isaiah, “ Who hath believed our | y
report.” It is not to be expected that such things jj
can be readily accepted, but it is in the power of one ! y
and all to inquire and see for themselves. A ere- i/
dulous attitude of mind is not required, is in fact to ! y
be deprecated, but a scoffing incredulity ill-becomes !./
this generation, to whom so many wonders have jy
been revealed. Who shall pretend to say where God j)
and Nature’s laws begin or end, or what is impossible. |y
Seance 5th, evening.—Sitters : General A., Colonel j)
H., Mr. C., Miss P., Lieutenant-Colonel and Mrs.
Gordon. Medium same as at last stance. Medium u
held by Colonel H. and Miss P.; we all joined hands, jy
The large musical box was taken up from the table, jy
floated about the room while playing, and was jj
brought and rested lightly on Colonel H.’s head, jy
“Charley” then spoke, and said, “Mrs. Gordon, Pve I)
brought a book from your shelves,” and a book was jy
thrown on my lap. It was a small one I never used, j y
and could not have been lying about anywhere. !y
Then he said, “ I have brought your little lamp,” and I >
T UAL I ST. Sept. 12, 1879.
Colonel Gordon felt a small pocket lantern, which
looks like a snuff-box, put into his hand. This, I
know, was in the dining-room, and to confirm my
own impression I afterwards asked the servant when
and where she had last seen it, and she said that
day in the drawer, in which I remembered so often
seeing it. We were touched by hands many times.
“ Charley ” showed himself on the table in our midst,
and talked a good deal. The chairs of three sitters
were asked for, and they were placed one on the
other on the table. We were wished good-night, and
lighted the candle,, still holding hands, and Colonel
H. and Miss P. declared they had never for one
moment let go the medium, who was most of the time
entranced. When sitting after the stance in the
dining-room with three jets of gas burning, I
was speaking of the lantern being taken upstairs,
when I heard raps on the under side of our large
dining table, and the signals “ yes ” and “ no ” were
rapped out to many questions I asked. Of course,
during my investigations I had seen and heard mani¬
festations in the light on one occasion, and to the incon¬
venience of those sitting at supper, the table jumped
about, and we had to hold on to the bottles, &c., &c.
There were two mediums present, and we had had a
wonderful seance in another room. I know that
darkness being necessary for the more powerful
manifestations lead to the suspicion of friends, and
it is quite amusing to hear sceptics talk, for they
appear to think that all one’s senses and one’s sense
too depend on light. No one who has sat at even
one good dark stance in the house of a trusted
friend could remain a believer in the fraud theory.
As any further account of these seances would be
but a repetition of similar phenomena, it seems to
me unnecessary to say more than that several others
were held; that I always invited the cleverest and
most sceptical men of our acquaintance, and I only
know one among them who was not startled into a
desire to continue investigating such wonderful facts.
I should like now to give a short account of
my last experiences in London. A lady, Mrs.
C., the widow of a clergyman, had attended a
seance in my house, and she was so astounded
that she begged me, as I was not going to hold
any more, being on the point of leaving town, to ask
the medium to come on an early day, fixed by us,
and give a seance in her house; she being most
desirous that a brother of hers should see something
such as she had seen. On the evening appointed we
met at her house; we sat, four of us only, and we
had manifestations such as I have described. But
two things that were done at all staggered the lady’s
very sceptical brother; and these were the piano
being opened and the keys struck, and a fragile,
folding Japanese screen moved from one place to
another and opened out again. The lady of the
house and her brother were holding the medium, and
they knew he could not have done these things.
But though puzzled, my sceptical friend was not
inclined to give in to the spirit theory. I went in to
spend my last evening with them two days later, and
we again discussed the matter. During the evening
the gentleman said, “ Let us three try now.” I
agreed, not in the least supposing we should be
rewarded for our pains. We sat at a very small tea
Sept. 12, 1879. THE SP
. table, having darkened the room. We put a bell, a
fan, and the candle and matches on the table, as we
had done when the medium was present. Judge
if you can, then, our astonishment when, after
sitting, chatting, quietly for some minutes, we heard
a sound of something being touched on the table.
Remember we were only three of us sitting holding
hands round a small table. The gentleman asked if
either of us had touched anything. Of course we
had not. Again a distinct sound was heard; the
paper of the Japanese fan was touched. I now
asked if a spirit was present, and three clear raps
astonished me as much as my friends. I then asked
several questions, and we were told that we had
not known this spirit in earth life, but that he
had inhabited that house. I suggested politely that
he should fan us, and it was done; the bell was
then rung up in the air, and dropped rather heavily
on to the gentleman’s head. Small lights moved
about on the table and floated up. The gentleman
then said “ Bring something from the writing
table.” A folded newspaper was brought. He then
desired the chair near the writing table to be
moved, and this was done several times. I now
asked if the spirit could show himself, but got no
reply. I suggested having a very wee jet of gas,
but again a negative. I remarked that we should
like to see him. I was not, however, prepared for
what followed. We heard sounds as though things
on the writing table were being touched. We
were sitting between that table and the door, which
opened on to a well-lighted landing. I felt a
sensation as though something, not a body, was
passing me, and the gentleman afterwards said that
he felt a touch on his shoulder, but before we
could either mention our feelings, we heard the
handle of the door move, and looking round quickly
saw the door open, and a form run out. I saw
this most clearly, being in the best position. A
dark-haired man in dark clothes appeared to run
out at the open door, which closed instantly. We all
jumped up, and ran to the door, on opening which
we saw the maid-servant looking as calm as possible,
and we tried to assume a calmness we did not feel
while asking her who had just come out of the room.
She said no one, that the door had banged, and she
had seen a shadow ; supposing, I think, that some one,
the gentleman, in fact, had looked out at the door.
She having no idea of what we were doing, was, I fancy,
wondering at our inquiries. We went back to the
room, but felt shaken, and notwithstanding my many
seances I had not the courage to sit in the dark ! I
suggested a small jet of gas, and with this we sat
again! In a few minutes the gentleman in an
excited way said, “ There’s that form in the room
again.” His sister and I could not see it, but he
was evidently a powerful medium, and could. I
felt a little creepy when he watched the form come
behind my chair, and his sister uttered an ex¬
clamation, and said, “Look at Mrs. Gordon’s face r
at the same moment he said, “ He is putting his
hand on your head.” Both now looked at my face,
and saw one or two spirit lights playing about on it!
I saw and felt nothing, but their excitement was too
much for my already overstrung nerves, and when the
gentleman said he was sure “ something extraordinary
RITUALIST. 125
I f was about to take place,” I suggested we should break
|| up, for I could stand no more. It was a relief to
m turn on a full stream of gas lights.
I was to leave London next day, Colonel G. having
j/j already gone; but I was persuaded by my friends to
|(| remain and have another stance. I consented, and
! j we fixed the second evening for it. Some friends
uj were asked, and we formed a circle of eight. A
| | very large musical box had been borrowed for
I ! the occasion ; it was too large for a table, so
j | was placed on a chair. We sat round the dining-
u table, the dining-room being on the same floor, and
) opening into the drawing-room. We put a bell bn
|(i the table, and a fan, wound up the musical box, and
j)j locked the doors. We then joined hands, and blew
Kj out the candle. The box was playing, when, to our
m astonishment, the sound became more distant, and the
Ri conviction dawned on all that the box had been
)j carried out of the room. ; We lighted the candle, and,
(j sure enough, no box was there, but we heard it
j)| playing somewhere. A lady took the candle into the
| | drawing-room, and looked round, but could not see
|)| it; and the lady of the house, fearing we should spoil
| j the manifestations by breaking up, suggested we
|>| should sit again and leave it; which we did. Soon
m there were loud raps, the fan was used, the bell rung,
j/j and some paper and pencil having at my suggestion
IV| been put on the table, writing was heard. We
j/j lighted the candle, and saw in good writing, “We
iivj are here Good night.” A name also was written
j which was well known to the gentleman of the house,
j It would be impossible to give in detail all that took
I place that evening; but sometimes trifles are as
j interesting as more pronounced phenomena. We
j found the tongue was out of the bell, which had not
j happened before, though it had been in use- for
I / j years. It was a small but handsome embossed brass
hi bell. We tried to put the tongue back, and after
| / j several had tried in vain, a lady managed it, but it
jj! was very difficult. We again put out the candle and
j (| the bell was rung, when we heard the tongue fall out
j>j on to the table, which we all immediately remarked ;
j|j but almost before we had time to get the words out
1| the bell was ringing merrily again. There was no
! mistaking the significance of this, showing us plainly
that what we found difficult to do in the light was
| accomplished with ease by our spirit friends in the
j dark. I suggested we should go and find the musical
j box, and we lighted the candle, when, to our astonish-
| ment, the box was in the room again, on the floor,
|(j near the door. Every door was locked, and one
j)j gentleman had put the keys in his pocket. We
| wound it up, and sat again; the gentleman who was
i)j medium now went off into a deep trance, and the
j<j gentleman sitting next him, a hard-headed sceptic,
j/j felt and held a hand which did not belong to any
j<j human being in the room. I was sitting on one side
j/j of this gentleman, and his little finger was linked in
j|j mine. He moved my hand. I asked what he was
j)j doing, and he said he was holding a hand which was
j|j on his chest. He inquired then if the other hand of
j/j the medium was being held, and was assured such
( was the case. Everybody round the table was
j)| holding hands, and another hand was held by him
j (j for a whole minute. That hand then slipped ‘ from
|(| his grasp, and was placed on his head. We had now
126 THESPIRI
been sitting at least three hours, and I, better than })
any one else, knew that the medium would be \\
exhausted and ill if we sat longer. He was still j>
insensible, so we hastily lighted the candle, and tried | \
to open the doors, and get some fresh air to revive \)
him; but we tried in vain for some minutes to get a |\
door open. It really seemed as if our invisible friends j)
were determined to convince us we were indeed K
locked in. The room was small, and there "was but a |)
corner where anybody could be hidden, and the \(
sitters were all very conscious of having done nothing \ (
to assist the wonderful manifestations.
My readers will wonder how it happened that this j <
gentleman was a powerful medium unknown to him- j)
self. I heard afterwards that he had been told that j (
he had this power, but would not believe it; and j ^
knowing how many mediums had been detected prac- j)
tising fraud, he w'as disgusted with the whole thing, j (
Spiritualists believe, and not without reason, that j)
many artists, poets, speakers, actors, and others who |j
by startling discoveries astonish the world, are j?
mediumistic, and are assisted by spirit influence, n
There is more to be said in favour of this theory j)
than can be seen at a glance. I may add that this n
gentleman’s profession was one which probably deve- j{
loped his mediumistic power unknown to himself.
I should like to say a few words on two classes of ! <
ideas which will arise in the minds of many. To I)
those who at once decide that the wonders here told k
are impossible, who are quite satisfied that they know H
enough of God’s laws to be certain on this point, j)
argument or reasoning would be thrown away. But j {
there are others who think they may be true, but if |)
so, are the work of the “ old gentleman ; ” to these I |s
would say that supposing this “old gentleman” to k
exist, of which I have had my doubts these many n
years, I should think if he’s “as black as he’s u
painted ” he finds more important work for himself n
and followers than coming among us to play musical j)
boxes and harmless tricks at worst; and proving by !)
these, to this materialistic age, that there is a some- ] (
thing which the crucible of the chemist cannot find, j)
and which escapes the dissecting knife of the surgeon. \)
To the other class, who on reading this account say K
that even if true they cannot see what good these j)
manifestations have done, or are likely to do, I can |)
only say that they know little the teaching and in- j)
fluence of the religious side of Spiritualism. If it be K
of no importance to man to gain a conviction of a j)
future life, a proof of the existence in that life, of j)
those “once loved, now lost”—if it be no boon to h
have all fear of death removed, and to know that only j ^
wilful sin is to be dreaded—then these reasoners may I)
be right. But I, who have moved among all classes j)
of Spiritualists, think otherwise, and believe a new j(
era has opened for man when the many, instead of K
the few, will be able to exclaim, “ 0 death, where is
thy sting ? 0 grave, where is thy victory ? ” K
Flower Manifestations.—The Revue Spirite of July says: )
“ Madame Isabel Madre, the remarkable medium of the Marietta ! (
circle, at Madrid, has flowers brought to her constantly. She is j S
not rich, has no greenhouse, and yet, at the annual flower show, )
where the grandees of Spain send their finest flowers, and where j)
the chief horticulturists compete for the prizes given by the State, j (
the first prize was nearly awarded to Madame Madre, this unknown j \
person, who had sent to the show some exotics of the rarest beauty, j >
She did receive the second prize. These flowers were brought j)
her by spirits, and she sent them to the show by their orders.”
: UAL I ST. Sept. 12, 1879.
LIFE DIRECTORSHIP.
A REQUEST FOR A GENERAL VOTE UPON A QUESTION OF
CONSTITUTION.
To the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
We, the undersigned members of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, think that a
Constitution of any public body, which practically
keeps the managers permanently in office, and leaves
no power to change them, is not a good Consti¬
tution.
We also desire to point out that, at the last elec¬
tion of the members of our own Council, we were
compelled, without option, to elect or re-elect every¬
body on the list you sent us ; because, in conse¬
quence of the unusual size of the Council, there
wrere not enough candidates for the vacant chairs to
permit our voting over even a single seat.
Furthermore, in the previous year, 1878, there
was only contest enough to allow us to vote out or
in no more than three or four members of our
Council, out of a long list of names you sent us.
Therefore, since early in 1877, we have had no
power of voting out or in more than three or four of
our managers, out of a total number amounting
nominally to more than seventy, and actually to
nearly sixty.
Thus the managers of the National Association
of Spiritualists are practically managers for life,
unless we take violent measures to change them—
such as by calling a special meeting of members to
do it, or annually nominating for the vacant chairs
more than two dozen new members for an already
too large Council, to enable us to vote for or against
the names on the annual lists you send us. Such
violent action of ours, even if it were necessary,
would be as likely to kill the Association as to
enable us, as we desire, to choose our representa¬
tives.
We, therefore, respectfully ask that on receipt of
this you will send a circular to all the members of
the Association (accompanied by voting papers, and
an unabridged verbatim copy of this memorial), re¬
questing them to inform you by vote whether they
would like the Constitution of our Association to be
altered, and the Council of the Association to be re¬
constructed before the winter active work begins, by
an immediate general election of all the future
members of the Council; and by the reduction, at
the same time, of their total number to twenty, includ¬
ing all unpaid officers. Even this, we believe, will be a
large Council for an Association like ours, which con¬
tains but three or four hundred ordinary members
in all. We believe that all the members of the
present Council, who have done most good public
Sept. 12, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST^
127
work, will be glad of the proposed opportunity of
allowing the members to express their opinion of
that work by voting thereupon.
*N. F. Dawe, London.
* Thomas Hayle, Rochdale.
*M. J. Walhotjse, London.
E. L. Bellew, London.
C. Burton Burton, Langton Hall.
Henry Cook, Hackney.
S. Emmet, London.
fR. Hannah, London.
W. H. Harrison, London.
Mary T. Ker, Margate.
Priscilla Ottley, London.
Emma D. Ponder, London.
Judith A. Ponder, London.
E. Rudd, London.
James Smyth, Budleigh Salterton.
A. C. Swinton, Eastbourne.
Amelia Williamson, Gipsy Hill.
Ellen Williamson, Gipsy Hill.
September, 1879.
The above memorial was produced by the Secretary
at the Council meeting last Tuesday. Mr. E. D.
Rogers rose and objected to its being read at the
meeting on the ground that no previous notice about
it had been given. Mr. E. T. Bennett proposed, and
Mr. Coffin seconded, that a committee be appointed,
and that the document be taken outside the room and
read by it. This was agreed to. Messrs. Bennett,
Rogers, and Coffin accordingly read it outside the
room, then returned, and said that they thought it
had better be read by the Council. Miss Houghton
expressed her belief that all the signatures to it might
have been written by one person. The Secretary said
she could verify most of them. The question was
then raised whether those whose signatures were
appended to the memorial had paid their subscrip¬
tions. Mr. Bennett (who had previously called the
secretary out of the room) replied that they had. On
the motion of Mr. Bennett, seconded by Mr. Theo¬
bald, the memorial was referred to the General Pur¬
poses Committee. The reporters were then, as usual
of late, ordered out of the room, that the members of
the Council might confer in private.
The members present at the meeting were Mr. A.
Calder, president; Miss Houghton, Mr. and Mrs.
Desmond FitzGerald, Mrs. Maltby, Mrs. FitzGerald,
Mr. W. H. Coffin, Mr. Theobald, Mr. E. D. Rogers,
Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. Pearson, and Mr. T. H.
Edmands.
A provincial member of the Council writes to us
that he sympathises with any movement calculated to
infuse harmony and vitality into the Association.
He adds:—“If the reduction in number of the
Council will leave it less cumbersome I hope it will be
carried out. My own name for one should be erased,
if a change in this direction is made, and properly so,
and perhaps a list of corresponding members might be
instituted. I agree that the Council should be con¬
fined to the actual governing body at headquarters.”
* These are members of the Council. Mr. Dawe resigned some
time ago, but his name was kept on the list without his know¬
ledge or consent.—Ed.
fMr. Hannah subscribed the last paragraph of the memorial
only, saying:—“I have no personal knowledge of what goes
before the last paragraph, of which I quite approve.1'—Ed.
SPIRITUALISM IN SOUTH AFRICA.
ALLEGED INTERFERENCE WITH LAW COURT BUSINESS BY
SPIRITS.
To the Editor of (< The Spiritualist?'
Sir,—I enclose you a letter and some articles
which appeared in one of our local papers, the Caffe
Times, and which will be of interest to all Spirit¬
ualists, showing how necessary it is to be cautious in
mixing up spirit communion with mundane affairs,
at least at the present status of the movement, as
spirit evidence is not admissible in any court. It
shows how inconsistent sceptics are when they will
not take Spiritualists’ statements, although thoroughly
authenticated by unimpeachable witnesses. The
Supreme Courts give their verdicts upon the evidence
given in court, and nothing else.
During the trial I was frequently “ chaffed ” about
the spirits helping me, but I good - humouredly
replied that spirits did not bother about such
mundane affairs, well knowing that their evidence in
court would not be admissible.
Much might be said on this subject, but I do not
feel impressed to write more, but simply to state
facts.
The story about my being influenced was a fabrica
tion, and I at once made a counter affidavit to the
one founded upon the remarks facetiously made in
the public streets. The attempt to reverse the
verdict utterly failed. Had the charge been true
the verdict must have been invalid, and a new trial
the result. Berks T. Hutchinson.
Cape Town, August 10th, 1879.
(From the <( Cape Times," August \st, 1879.J
This morning an application will be made in the
Supreme Court to set aside the verdict of the jury
in the case of Sidman versus McLoughlin on the
ground of misdirection on the part of some spiritual
person or persons unknown. It appears that one of
the jurymen was a well-known representative of the
Spiritualist faith ; and the defendant complains that
his familiars gave him bad advice. We understand
that in practical matters the juryman in question
gives no heed to monitions from the other world,
having learned by long and perhaps painful experience
that in shuffling off their mortal coil his friends have
not been always successful in shuffling off their
human infirmities. As, however, the spiritual
intimacies of the gentleman were notorious, we are
surprised that the attorneys or counsel for the
defendant did not challenge him before the trial.
Another interesting question arises from this point.
Suppose a devout juryman to pray for special illumi¬
nation and direction before entering the box, would
the notion in his mind of such illumination be con¬
sidered to render him incompetent to deliver an
honest verdict ? In remarking that the Spiritualist
should have been challenged if any distrust were
entertained of the honesty of the spirits, we do not
intend to suggest that the omission to challenge at
the proper time debars the defendant from questioning
at this stage the competence of the Spiritualist to
make a just deliverance. Until the Court decides
upon the merits of the application we can only
express an opinion in a general way on the oddities
involved in it.
128 THE SPIRITUALIST. Sept. 12, 1879.
{From the “ Cape Times” Aug. Unci, 1879.) , )j
The term of the Supreme Court began yesterday, m
the full bench sitting. In the ease of Sidman v. (|
McLoughlin, an application was made by Mr. Stocken- I j
strom, on the part of the defendant, for a rule nisi u!
calling the plaintiff to show causes why the verdict j) j
should not be set aside, on * the ground (1), that it | ({
was contrary to the weight of evidence, and (2) that |) |
one of the jury had since admitted that he was (I
influenced in giving his verdict by certain spiritual j |
manifestations. Mr. Leonard for the plaintiff (
objected to the affidavits made in support of the latter ill
allegation being read, it being an accepted principle j j
of law that no admission by any juror, after a verdict j
has been given, of the manner in which that conclu- !(j
sion was arrived at, can be entertained by the Court j j
on an application to set aside such verdict. To this H
purport he quoted Taylor on Evidence, sixth edition, J)J
vol. 1, p.842. Mr. Justice Dwyer inquired whether H
the spirit would be produced who had influenced the | / j
juryman, to which Mr. Leonard made answer that he |)j
could not call that spirit from the vasty deep. Mr. j j
Stpckenstrom admitted that the English practice was i \ |
as his learned friend had stated, but there was no |>j
authority under the law of this country for the |lj
adoption of such a practice, and as the conditions of i)j
trial by jury in civil cases in this colony differed from |(|
the English conditions, he contended that the practice j)j
of .the courts of Westminster did not apply. Mr. |(|
Justice Fitzpatrick held that the Court was bound to | j
follow the practice of Westminster where no law of |\|
rule existed here, unless it could be shown that the m
said practice is founded on something exclusively \j
limited to England. Mr. Stockenstrom submitted m
that the fact of trial by jury in this colony being a m
creature of statute law, while in England it is a part m
of the common law, constituted such a limitation; | j
while the circumstance of the verdict being taken m
from a majority here, whereas in England it must j(|
be unanimous, placed the institution on a different j)j
footing. The Chief Justice, however, on the |(
principle, interest reipublicce ut sit finis litium, m
ruled that the affidavits could not be read. There m
would be no end to litigation if verdicts were to be m
upset on the subsequent admissions or gossip of m
jurors. The jury had delivered their verdict, and it j j
was done with. On the other ground alleged Mr. j(j
Stockenstrom asked to have a day appointed for his m
argument. The Court informed him, no objection |||
being made on the other side, that he might set it I j
down for any day convenient to himself. We may i(j
mention that the rejected affidavits were made by Mr. m
John Stonier and Mr. Stephen George, and that an j j
answering affidavit had been filed.
To the Editor of the ‘ ‘ Gape Times?
Sir,—In the McLoughlin-Sidman case Justice til
Dwyer distinctly informed the jury that their verdict j)j
must be based on the evidence that would be brought | \ j
out during the trial. After patiently hearing the | |
witnesses, and carefully scrutinising the documentary j | j
evidence, my verdict was given in accordance with j j
the evidence given in open Court, and, if necessary, I j j
can state my reasons for acting as I did. That j j
I am a staunch votary of spirit communion everyone j}|
knows, but having absolute proof of this truth in no ijj
way interferes with my daily actions (as a just and
upright man), or prevents me exercising my reasoning
faculties. Thousands of the most eminent men of all
countries in science, art, literature, divinity, law,
medicine, and the army are avowed Spiritualists, and
in every grade of society, from royalty to the humble
peasant, Spiritualism (so-called) in some form crops
up (Supreme Courts not excepted). In London it is
a well-known fact that one of the most eminent
generals of Her Majesty’s army in Zululand is a
Spiritualist, and nearly every crowned head in Europe
is included. The paltry attempt made to upset the
verdict in the above case, on the ground that I had
been influenced by a manifestation, appears to me to
be an attempt to tamper with justice, and cast
reflection on my mental abilities, besides injuring my
social and professional status. I am too well known
to fear any such result, but on the contrary rather
glad to have Spiritualism so well advertised in the
public press. The amount of gross ignorance that
prevails on the subject is most lamentable, but as the
public have obtained their knowledge from the
garbled reports that find their way into the news¬
papers, it cannot be helped. To sincere inquirers,
and ignorant and rabid sceptics, I would recommend
the perusal of standard works on the subject, and
then ask them to judge for themselves, instead of
trusting to mere gossip or perverted statements.
Berks T. Hutchinson.
AN ATTACK UPON MRS. LOWE.
Mrs. Lowe asks us to publish the following letter
about an attack upon her which the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists recently paid a newspaper to
print:—
64, Berners-street, London, W.,
August 30th, 1879.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—Being credibly informed
that the monthly report of your proceedings in
Spiritual Notes is still an official document, sanc¬
tioned by your president, and paid for out of your
public funds, I venture indignantly to remonstrate
against the publication in the August number of
Mr. Desmond FitzGerald’s wanton and unjustifiable
attack on my personal character at your last meeting.
As an expression of private pique and certainly
unprovoked malevolence I could well afford to ignore
it: as the official utterance of a once respected and
in some quarters still influential corporation, I shall
not do so. You accuse me of having joined your
Association under false colours, not being a Spirit¬
ualist. To this I reply that i/such be the fact the blame
rests with yourselves rather than with me, since my
Spiritualistic views, as expressed in a published corre¬
spondence with the Lunacy Commissioners, and in
the pamphlet, How an Old Woman obtained Passive
Writing, and the Outcome thereof, were before the
world years before the British National Association
of Spiritualists existed; and it rested with the elec¬
tors to ascertain whether or not I was a fitting
person to join the society, and, still more, to govern
it. But I entirely deny the Council’s right to oracu-
late as to what constitutes a Spiritualist, or to require
anything beyond a belief “in the existence and
operation of mind apart from humanly material
braina belief which, in those very words, I long
ago affirmed to the Lunacy Commissioners, for
Sept. 12, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
129
holding which I was cruelly persecuted by them, and
which I affirm to be the essential, and only essential
qualification of a Spiritualist. All else, all pheno¬
mena, revelations, and theories, are but accidental
adjuncts to this essential belief, and I utterly repu¬
diate this, your assumption of a right to give our soul-
ennobling creed a narrow, dogmatic form, and consti¬
tuting yourselves its popes to excommunicate all who
disagree with you. Your next assertion, “that I have
done little for Spiritualism/’ it does not behove me
to dispute ; but I may remind you and the public
that I am, as far as hitherto appears, the only medium
who has deliberately and resolutely undergone pro¬
tracted incarceration among lunatics in simple
attestation of the genuineness of mediumship ; who
has maintained that genuineness in the highest law-
court of the realm ; and by again doing so before a
Select Committee of the House of Commons procured
its permanent description and record in the Parlia¬
mentary archives. Whether by so doing I have done
as much for the future of Spiritualism, the safety of
mediums, and the consolidation of intellectual and
religious freedom as those who, sitting at ease with
closed doors and friendly surroundings have devoted
their energies to Spiritualistic sports, I must leave
the public to decide. As regards the Lunacy Law
Reform movement, I confess that the callous in¬
difference to the safety of the mediums from medical
tyranny and persecution, and the cynical contempt
shown by you for their sufferings when brought to
your knowledge, have caused me regret, disappoint¬
ment, and surprise; a surprise which, mingled with
blame, has, I believe, been largely shared by out¬
siders.—I am, ladies and gentlemen, yours faithfully,
Louisa Lowe.
To the Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
FANNY KEMBLE’S APPRECIATION OF THE
SPIRITUAL.
That the habit of acting Shakespeare may be an
encouragement to spiritualistic ideas for those of
natural receptivity, I think is well illustrated in the
very clever letter lately published, called Records of
a Girlhood, by Frances Ann Kemble. These letters,
many of them written before “Fanny Kemble” came
upon the stage, at twenty years of age, and
continuing to her marriage, four years after, were
mostly sent to one friend, who had kept them all,
and who has lately given them up to their author,
who has now given them to the world. These
letters are of especial interest to one who, like
myself, was a witness of the true genius of the
youthful actress so many years ago; but I cannot
help thinking that the vast majority who have
not had that advantage would have pleasure in read¬
ing these memoirs, wherein her occasional comments
of later date by no means discredit the spiritualistic
intuitions of her youth. Perhaps her criticism of
the elder Kean, taken from her diary, with which she
occasionally supplements her letters, and written when
she was twenty-one years of age, gives a good
insight of the power which she herself had as an
actress, though perhaps in a somewhat lesser degree,
of electrifying her audience.
Here are a few words of her criticism :—“ He is a
man of genius, and instinctively with a word, a look,
l|| a gesture, tears away the veil from the heart of our
jd common humanity, and lays it bare as it beats in
| | every human heart, and as it throbs in his own.
j<] Kean speaks with his whole living frame to us, and
j)| every fibre of ours answers his appeal;” and how
l(j aptly she writes respecting this great tragedian.
And now let me give an example of her Spirit-
1H ualism, taken from a letter of the same period,
|(| and dated December 4th, 1831: “Do you not believe
in numberless invisible existences, filling up the vast
dl intermediate distance between God and ourselves, in
id the lonely and lovely haunts of nature, and her more
jvj awful and gloomy recesses ? It seems as if one
m must be surrounded by them; I do not mean to the
jM point of merely suggesting the vague ‘ suppose ’; that,
!|j I should think, must visit every mind ; but rather
m like a consciousness, a conviction, amounting almost
j(j to certainty, only short of seeing and hearing. How
|)j well I remember in that cedar hall of Oatlands the
| (I sort of invisible presence I used to feel pervading the
: | place. It was a large circle of huge cedar trees in a
jjj remote part of the grounds; the paths that led to it
i>j were wild and tangled; . . . the whole place used to
i (| affect my imagination in the weirdest way, as the habi-
j)j tation of invisible presences of some strange super-
ju natural order. As the evening came on I used fre-
i) | quently to go there by myself, leaving our gentlemen at
| I the table and my mother and Lady F. in the drawing
| room. How I flew along by the syringa bushes,
K brushing their white fragrant blossoms down in
In showers as I ran till I came to that dark cedar hall !
j(j ... That place seemed peopled with spirits to me ;
j>j and while I was there I had the intensest delight in
iu the sort of all but conscious certainty that it was
j;j so. Curiously enough, I never remember feeling the
Kj slightest nervousness while I was there, but rather
nj an immense excitement in the idea of such invisible
j (i companionship ; but as soon as I had emerged from
!>i the magic circle of the huge black cedar trees
K all my fair visions vanished, and, as though
l> under a spell, I felt perfectly possessed with
ly terror, and rushed home again like the wind,
i) j fancying I heard following footsteps all the
|\! way I went. I could have fancied they made
|)| grimaces and gestures at me. . . I used to reach
the house with cheeks flaming with nervous excite-
])J ment, and my heart thumping a great deal more
I (i with fear than with my wild run home; and then I
j) | walked with the utmost external composure of
Kj demure propriety into the drawing-room, as one who
j;j should say ‘thy servant went no whither.’” With
Kj all this Miss Kemble was a person strongly imbued
jjj with earnest thoughts on religion, and she hated the
Kj stage, on which she went to save her father from
m ruin; and this strong dislike of the stage only
| increased by experience. Here is a specimen of her
j(j free thought, which is pretty “advanced” for a young
j | j lady of that period: “ As we are immortal in spite
j)| of death, so, I think, we are wonderful in spite
| | of our weakness, and admirable in spite of our
m imperfection, and capable of all good spite of all our
|j evil.” Scrutator.
j The Kew York Sunday Mercury prints a scandalous attack
j on Dr. Slade, and attempts to make the public believe that he is
i a woman.
130
A LETTER FROM MISS SLADE.
To the Editor of the il Banner of Light.”
Sir,—Many times I have written through, your
columns to inform our friends of our departure to
some foreign clime, hut this time it is to announce
our coming home. Dr. Slade has done all it is
possible to do here in San Francisco, and has also
visited various places on the coast, and after he has
made a trip to Oregon and back we shall start east¬
ward. I shall, therefore, ask our friends and
acquaintances to address all letters hereafter in care
of the Religio-Philosophical Journal, Chicago, as I
suppose that will be our first stopping-place for any
length of time after we leave here.
An amusing incident took place during Dr. Slade’s
visit to Santa Barbara. An editor having a sitting
with him conjured up the following theory to account
for the writing, to wit, that very likely Dr. Slade
succeeded in introducing his very flexible finger
between the slate and the table, and thus did the
writing. This astute knight of the press took good
care, however, not to explain how the writing was
managed on top of the table. It was published, of
course, in the papers, and they sold rapidly, as is
always the case when any attempt is made to pander
to the popular prejudice in any way.
Speaking of “exposures,” (?) I will relate a little
incident that happened during our travels. Dr. Slade
having been invited one evening to a private house
to give a seance, the dinner was hurried over in
order to have the table for use during the sitting.
The children were banished from the room, and the
seance went on splendidly; the writing was indeed
so wonderful that they thought there must be
machinery concealed ; they accordingly examined the
table, and to Dr. Slade’s wonder and their great
delight they found a piece of chewing-gum sticking
under the leaf. Then there was great excitement.
It should all be published on the morrow, and ‘ * the
whole thing should be shown up.” About this time
a disturbance arose, occasioned by one of the children
insisting on entering the room. e * What do you want,
Tommie?” asked his mother. “I want my gum,”
said the child, and rushing over to the table, took
the very piece that had occasioned all this excitement.
This is a type of *‘ exposures ’ ’ generally—people
make much ado about nothing.
It has been predicted that in two treatments from
Dr, McLennan—the gentleman who was instrumental
in bringing Dr. Slade thus far along—at stated times,
he will be completely cured of his lameness, and we
are looking forward to the fulfilment of this prophecy.
San Francipco, August 9th, 1879. AGNES L. SLADE.
Yesterday Mr. John Carson left London for Melbourne.
For some time past he has quietly promoted the cause of
Spiritualism in England, and he carries with him to Australia the
good wishes of all who have had the pleasure of making his
acquaintance in this country.
There is not and never has been any difficulty in restoring
harmony and good management to the National Association of
Spiritualists by reducing the Council to a reasonable size, so
that only persons noted for good public work in Spiritualism can
get a footing in it. Mr. Calder is sure of his seat as president.
“Passed to the higher life,” September 3rd, 1879, Ann Etta
Shaw, aged one year and nine months, and only daughter of
James and Susannah Shaw, of Halifax. The funeral service was
conducted by Mr. E. 0. Matthews, trance and clairvoyant
medium, at Lister-lane Cemetery, Halifax, on Saturday last.
Sept. 12, 1879.
A PREMONITION OF THE TIME OF DEATH.
A New York correspondent sends us the following
extract from The Medical Tribune, of July 15th,
1879 :—
Foreign journals gave some interesting incidents of
the death of the Princess Christina, of Spain, sister
of the young Queen Mercedes. The parents had in¬
sisted on frequent vaccination of their children, and in
this way, it is supposed, virus was introduced into
their systems, which produced typhoid fever, and cost
the life of four in their prime. On her last morning
on earth Christina bade an affectionate farewell to her
friends, saying, “I am going; I see Amelia and
Mercedes coming and calling for me. Grive me all my
jewellery.” After distributing her possessions among
her friends, she said, ‘ * My sisters bid me come to
them ; I shall die at three o’clock.” She fell .asleep,
but woke at the appointed hour, and said, softly,
5? Ah, there is Mercedes, so at last I am going to see
my little pet again.” And then she closed her eyes
for the last time on earth.
PENNSYLVANIAN APPARITIONS.
Sir,—I shall feel obliged if any reader of The Spiritualist can
give any information about a curious sect, “ The Brotherhood of
Sion,” which existed in the last century at Ephrata and Kedar, in
Pennsylvania. The members of this sect persecuted the founder
of it, Eckerling, until he was obliged to fly into the desert.
A Mr. Sauer relates of this brotherhood that the spirits of the
deceased members were in the habit of appearing at meals and
eating bread, and also that they usually appeared at the Lord’s
Supper. Mrs. Sauer also is said to have appeared.
The society had to be given up on account of the above perse¬
cution, which was set agoing by a certain Beissel, a bishop of the
society, who carried it on by means of magical practices.
This society is mentioned in Horst’s Zaiiber-Bibliothet.
A. J. C.
Lucerne, Switzerland.
Conditional Immortality Association.—Yesterday the
second annual conference of this association was held at Maberley
Chapel, Balls-pond-road, Islington, and was attended by a large
number of delegates from Ireland, Scotland, and various provin¬
cial towns. The chairman, the Rev. W. Leask, D.D., minister
of the chapel, in opening the proceedings, said their association
contemplated, amongst other things, an expansion of Biblical
truth, especially the doctrine of conditional immortality. These
were the objects they had in view, and it would, he thought, be
seen that they had no selfish ends to serve. Though in a temporal
or worldly sense they might not gain anything, there was a great
deal which, through the blessing of God, they would lose—
superstition, darkness, mistakes, and errors, which had long
beclouded the glory of God and hampered tne progress of His
gospel. Papers were then read by the Rev. Henry Constable,
M.A., late Prebendary of Cork, on “Conditional Immortality,
tested by Admitted Doctrines,” and by General H. Goodwyn on
“ The Object and Judicial Character of the Millennial Kingdom
upon each of which a discussion ensued, the Rev. Dr. Gregg
remarking that for many years he had held and advocated the
doctrines of this association on the conditional immortality and
millennial questions, and though he was now a very old man, in
his eighty-first year, he was determined to uphold them until the
close of his life. Last night a public meeting was held in the
same place, presided over by General Goodwyn, when a paper
was read by Mr. Wm. Laing, of Edinburgh, on “ The Pleasing
Hope of Immortality; False Grounds and True,” and also papers
on cognate subjects by Messrs. Hammond, Blinkhom, and
Waylen.—Daily Telegraph, Sept. 3rd, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. 12, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
191
OMENS ATTENDING THE LAST DAYS OF
CHARLES I. I I
On the second and last day of his trial, as the ju
King was leaning on his staff, the silver head fell j)j
off and rolled on the ground. The circumstance j>j
seemed ominous, and Charles was evidently dis- j\
turbed. He afterwards owned to Bishop Juxon that j(
“ it really made a great impression on him.”
During the last night of his life Charles slept j)
soundly for four hours. About two hours before i>
dawn he opened his curtains, and by the light of “ a n
great cake of wax set in a silver basin,J he saw that j)
his attendant Herbert’s rest was disturbed. He !(
awoke him. Herbert said he had been dreaming j)
that Laud had entered the room and knelt before i>
the King; that as they conversed the King looked \\
pensive; Laud sighed, and as he retired fell pros- j (
trate on the ground. “ It is very remarkable,” said u
Charles; “but he is dead. Had we now conferred j>
together, ’tis very likely—albeit I loved him well—I j (
should have said something to him which might have |>
occasioned his sigh.” He then said he would rise, j(
“for he had a great work to do that day.” Herbert j;
trembled as he combed his hair. “ Though it be not j\
long to stand on my shoulders,” said the King, “ take j)
the same pains with it as you were wont to do. |)
Herbert, this is my second marriage-day; I would j
be as trim as may be.” j
SPIRITUALISM IN GLASGOW.
To the Editor of 11 The Spiritualist.”
Sra,—It is now some time since I have informed the readers
of your valuable newspaper with our troubles, successes, and
experiences. Too much hard work in my peculiar and unorthodox
profession, viz., “ Healing by the Laying on of Hands,” laid me
up, drained of vitality, pumped out by the virtue that had gone
out of me. Absolute rest was the prescription of my spirit
friends, although patients and visitors went away disappointed
every day.
I am now in better trim than ever, and have already buckled
on the harness for hard work for the season. Engagements will
confine me to Glasgow and the vicinity for the coming autumn
and winter; thus my intended visit to London is again post¬
poned. Since my last communication I have paid flying visits
to Liverpool, Belfast, and Edinburgh, and find in ail these places
a lively and decided interest in the subject of Spiritualism.
Spiritualism is pressing forward for a hearing, demanding investi¬
gation, and it will be heard. It is cropping up in most unlikely
places. In Glasgow it was never in a more advanced condition
than at present. The outward and visible sign—the Glasgow
Association of Spiritualists—but faintly represents the true state
of affairs.
Nicodemuses who visit me continually in search of information
concerning Spiritualism and cognate subjects are rapidly
increasing in numbers sr<6 rosa ; there is a better state of feeling
towards the whole thing than ever. One fact in Duguid
mediumship is more valuable to the inquiring mind than a string
of learned definitions uttered by animated dictionaries and pulpit
orators, and takes much better with the “vera particular’’inhabi¬
tants of these parts, who are ever ready to inform you that “ facts
are chiels that winna ding and daurna be disputed.”
In Messrs. David and Robert Duguid we have first-class
physical mediums, concerning whose seance I will write more
fully at another time. The number of local media for other
phases is gradually and surely on the increase. So far, so good.
The actual condition of the Association may be gained from the
secretary’s report for 1878-1879.
Report.—Taking into consideration the dulness of the times
and the unpopularity of Spiritualism, the attendance at Associa¬
tion meetings has been very good. The finances of the Assoquu
tion have nearly covered the expenses, 'the Assoeiation is
deeply indebted to those members who have so liberally con¬
tributed of their means to the Association’s welfare, whereby it
has been enabled to honourably discharge all its engagementsi
Messrs. J. J. Morse, E. W. Wallis, D. Duguid, and E. 0.
Mathews were the public media who occupied the platform;
Their services were fully appreciated. They have been
re-engaged, except Mr. Mathews.. Messrs. Walker, DOguidj
Robertson, Birrell, Anderson, , and Coates, unprofessional
speakers, normal and trance, did good service in the past.
Special attention is called to Mr. Coates’s Sunday morning
lectures as being a new feature, well appreciated by the members
of the Assoeiation and visiting public. These lectures; we
believe, will be carried on during the winter; We regret td
state that some members have grown lukewarm, and being
satisfied themselves that Spiritualism is true, make little
or no effort to help the Association to present these truths
to the public. It is to be hoped they will “ consider
their ways, and be wise; ” for it is Doth selfish and cowardly
to possess a truth, and yet be unwilling and ashamed to acknow¬
ledge it. We also draw attention to the fact that some members
forget the period when their quarterly subscriptions are due.
Hereafter it will be the duty of the treasurer to remove any
doubt that may exist in their minds on the subject. Ladies have
been admitted members of the Associations, with the same rights,
privileges, and duties as the male members. This we hail as
another step in the right direction. The treasurer’s report pre¬
sents a clean balance-sheet, with 4s. to the credit of the
Association. There are no outstanding accounts. Efforts have
been made for more perfected organisation, and the formation of
a Children’s Lyceum and a library, concerning which we hope to
present satisfactory accounts next quarter-day. It is with pleasure
we announce that the entire collections raised on Sunday, the
31st August, will be devoted to the library, and Messrs. Wallis,
Morse, and Coates will give their services to the Association
without charge for the same purpose. We, as an Association,
are very thankful for the spirit of earnestness that seems to
pervade the members. As the session of 1878-1879 has been
far in advance of previous sessions, we hope the incoming
session will be equally progressive.
Jas. Robebtson, Hon. Secretary,
On the 3rd August the annual conference of the Association
was held for the transaction of business, election of officers, the
engagement of lecturers, and the holding of seances, Mr. J.
Walker, the venerable president, was re-elected for the ensuing
year; Mr. Jas. Robertson, late secretary, was elected vice-
president ; Mr. Broadly, treasurer; and the writer, secretary;
with a small and energetic committee. The promises of a
vigorous winter campaign are numerous, and no doubt Spirit¬
ualism as a public movement will make itself felt as it never was
before since the late Mr. J. W. Jackson, author of Man, and of
several other able contributions to anthropological science, was
president of the Association. Mr. J. J. Morse, on the 10th and
11th hist., fulfilled engagements, and occupied the platform in his
best form, giving, as usual, eminent satisfaction. His Sunday
evening address on the “New Heaven” was considered one of
the best orations, in matter and manner, ever delivered by him
here. The number of his visits will be increased for the season.
Mr. Wallis, the well-known inspirational speaker, and Mrs. Wallis,
have been with us during August, fulfilling engagements. The hall
was recently crowded to excess to hear a lecture by Mr. Wallis’s
guides on “ Spiritualism, a Revelation but no Mystery,” which
was frequently interrupted during the delivery by plaudits. Mr.
Porter, recently a hard worker and lay preacher among the
Unitarians of this city, has now enrolled himself under the
banner of Spiritualism, and will be an able advocate of the cause.
This gentleman has not taken the step rashly, but after many
years’ careful investigation and reflection. He will occupy the
platform of the society for morning and evening service, on the
third Sunday in September. On Monday evening, the 1st
September, at eight o’clock, a soirde was held in honour of Mr.
and Mrs. Wallis and their guides. It was the best soiree held
by the Association since the presentation to Mr. Morse last year.
During the present month of September Sunday morning lectures
will be continued as usual by the same speaker, and the following
gentlemen will lecture at the evening service ill the order in
11 which their names appear:—Messrs. Coates, Robertson, Porter,
/j and Walker. My public lectures and experiments in phrenology
< I and mesmerism will be continued during this month.
James Coates.
65, Jamajca-street, Glasgow.
132
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Sept. 12, 1879.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late Wm, Gregory, M.D„ F.E.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size,
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. Gd. post free.’
CONTENTS.
CHAPTEft I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses AHected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTEB II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism,. Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling's Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet's
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —■
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:— Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance — Extasis—Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
/1 In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
j <! civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou-
| (i sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out-
i \ | lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail-
I) i ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
|>] The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
j)i Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
k | investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
| (i professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
Kj true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
1( were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
!)! presence of mediums without being touched.
j)j Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
I) i Soienoe, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
j); thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
| (i house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A, It. Wallace, Mr.
| (! Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
|(\ professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
j) I Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
l)j forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
; (j stranger to the family present.
Kj The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
j \! science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
j \ i untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
j); private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
j)j by any member of the family. At the present time there are
j)! only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe-
j j nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
j (! tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
j (i be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
I \ | great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro-
I); tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
j > j the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
1)1 which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
|) | duped who trust in worthless authorities.
I (I One or more persons possessing medial powers without know-
| < j ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
I (] new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc-
j\i tions, obtains the phenomena:—
j Vi 1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup-
|)! tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
] (j 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
j|j the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufiicient
Kj to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
j (| wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
i) | top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
j) j little importance. Any table will do.
j)j 3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
j) j but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
j)| 4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
j (j general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
j (j should be of a frivolous nature.
Kj 5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
jji feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
j) I indications will probably be table-tilting or raps,
j) j 6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
l)j to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
j (I the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
i (j three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
i (j “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
j|j If three raps be given in answer, then say, If I speak the
j > | letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
| to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
| /1 three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
jn from this time an intelligent system of communication is
j(j established.
K j 7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
j (j trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
j \ j messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
j)j usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
j)j objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
j)j the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
J (j to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
j(j or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
! v j undeniable proof.
i v] 8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
j > | because flo medium chances to be present, try again with other
j) | sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi-
j) | tive to mesmeric influences.
I (I Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
j<| not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
Kj week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
jyj stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Sept. 12, 1879.
British national associa-
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
8 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akbeman Road, Beixton.
The object of the Society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well-known mediums, and are entitled to the use of
books on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &o.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
M-RS^ WELDON’S WEDNESDAY
RECITALS. Mrs. "Weldon gives an Evening’s
entertainment weekly, at Tavistock House, hex re¬
sidence (formerly Charles Dickens’). The programme
is varied .by a short Lecture, sacred and romantic;
serious and nursery songs by Gounod, Urich, and Mrs.
Weldon. Tickets to be had on application free. A
collection is made for Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage,
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London. 
Cloth, small Svo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners. f
 E. W. AjjiBN, 11, Ave Maria-Iane, E.C.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition, enlarged.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE
COMPARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from
Spiritualism with the idea that it is unchristian and
unscriptural. It shows (we think successfully) that
every form of mediumship, now so familiar to Spirit¬
ualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of identical
experiences. Also
HEAVEN OPENED.
Parts 1 and 2, Gd. each. The two bound in one, Is.
These books, consisting of messages given by
writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth,
aud their group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and
sorrowing parents.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street. London, WO.
rriHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
A oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a'large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, <fcc., &e. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O. 
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late Wm. Gbegoey, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
This second edition is, for its quality and size, the
cheapest large work ever published in this country in
connection with Spiritualism. Price fis., or 5s. Gd.
post free.
P The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, WLondon,. C.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial Svo Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“0! BeautiM White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the txance-mediumship of T, L. Harris.
IY.—Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Riehmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VIL—An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta."
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
Wtiite, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XHI.—^Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M-A., Oxon.”
’ XVII.—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
.. XXI.—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
0. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVIi.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. O. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII. — Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India, By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Hand-
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child's Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
r§n HE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
JL OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d.;
post free, 6$d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 83, British Museum-sti’set, London, W,C.
iii
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTBNTS.
CHAPTER I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—^Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jancken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality-
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King,
Chapter IV.—^Materialisations in England—^Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr.
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—^Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances? — Immateriality—Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza—Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S.
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes,
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardeo — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality-
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism. 1
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss—Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Offloe, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O,
Price 5s, 6d,
Inspirational Poetry,
“POEMS EftOM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given,
CONTENTS,
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V; Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie's Spirit Song"—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live ”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII.“For a' that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer - XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
REYUE SPIRITE, Journal deludes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyms, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris, Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie,
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 12, IS?!),
Price Five Shillings! Crown Svo,‘ richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
A.ND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Ah Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal^ and some twenty or thirty
ther standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose ’Writings.
a i. The Lay of the Lazy, Author!—2. The. Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirhel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes.”
—24. The Angel of Silence.
PART 2.—The WoWejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant's Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. — 29, The July Bug. — 30. The Converted
Carman.  
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becominga thing of the past; consequently
any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a genuine
vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who are not too
stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on
the contrary, some of his poems touch on the deepest
and most sacred feelings of our common humanity.
. . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his ad¬
ventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is
quite one of the funniest things that has been pub¬
lished for years. . . . The book contains quite
enough to ensure it a welcome from which its tasteful
appearance will not detract.” The Morning Post says
of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,’’ and it says that the rhymes are pitched in
“ something like the same key as The Bon Gaultier
Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably suc¬
cessful result."
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift."
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published, and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street). . Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed."
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYBIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris, These poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state Of trance, are of rare literary
excellence,
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
npHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
J SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
Theses Essays won the First and Second
Gold Medals op the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
.jV/e Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
M~~INT) AND MATTER.—A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penna,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J. M.
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample copies free.
npHE ALPHA; or, the First' Principle
L of the Buinah Mind: a Revelation) but no
Mystery. 'With Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait
of the Author, E. N. Beflnys. 870 pages, pried 3S. 6d,
‘We can call to mind few books'fit to be its fdllowSi”
•—Athenseum.
“ It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and
logic than any work we have ever read ; it is a new
revelation, and one of the most remarkable productions
ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan-.
Also, just published, with engraving of the Author,
470 pages, price 3s. 6d.
rpHE RELIGION OF LIFE, as exemp-
JL lifled by Jesus Christ. A series of Lectures by
the Abthor of “Alpha."
Published by E, W.- Allen) Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. Gd. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.C.
“ T E JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mons. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Cossonerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “Poughkeepsie Seer.1' *■ "
Si d."
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . < 7 ff
The Teacher. „• IL ; ' < .• 7 if
The seer. „ IIL „ \ .76
'The Hefoffneri ,•) IV. ,, , .76
The Thinker. ,, V. , . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest 7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology i S 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People . .• . . . . . . 7. <?
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . -2 0
Death and the After-Life . . . . 3 6
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . ..76
Hartnonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 8 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .'2 6
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . < , 6 0
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 6 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology , . ,30
Morning Lectures . . . . . .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBEOK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares,
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFr, Manager,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
lYfEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
i-VJL VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for 1 jd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready, 48 pp. Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS FOE SEPTEMBEE, 1879.
Mesmerism ; by S. De Morgan—Popular Errors and
Objections to Spiritualism explained and answered—
The Jewish Kabbalah; by J. W. F.—Spiritualism a
New Basis of Belief; by J. S. Farmer—Memorable
Relations : Ghosts in Tyrol; by A. M. Howitt Watts—
Notes and Gleanings: Spiritualistic Contrasts ; Mr.
Spurgeon versus Modern Society; Professor Gairdner
on Spiritualism; Spiritualism and Morals; Exposures
of Spiritualism; Shelley’s Religious Convictions;
Spirirtualism the Up-Builder of a Rational Faithj;
Scientific Claim of Spiritualism—Sonnets to a Sister,
of Mercy; by J. T. Markley.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW: Hay Nisbet & Co., 62, Ropework-lane
Price 5s. Or. Svo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON)," on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Hlustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office S3, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
CONTENTS.
A Haunted House at the Hague. By Adelberth
de Bourbon, First Lieut, of the Dutch Guard
to H.M. the King of the Netherlands   121
Have Dogs Clairvoyant Powers?  122
Spiritualism in Australia:—Varieties of Medium-
ship    122
The Newcastle Daily Examiner  123
Experiences in Spiritualism. By Alice Gordon.
(Concluded.)     124
Life DirectorshipA Request for a General Vote
upon a Question of Constitution     126
Spiritualism in South Africa :—Alleged Inter¬
ference with Law Court Business by Spirits 127
An Attack upon Mrs. Lowe  128
Fannj'Kemble’s Appreciation of the Spiritual...... 129
A Letter from Miss Slade 130
A Premonition of the Time of Death 130
Correspondence:—Pennsylvanian Apparitions ... 130
Omens Attending the Last Days of Charles L  131
Spiritualism in Glasgow  131
Paragraphs:—The Lunacy Laws, 123; Flower
Manifestations, 126; Conditional Immortality
Association  180
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevebidoe and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by W. H. Hakeison, 33, British Museum
street London W C
