Regimehed as a Newspapee,
J o l' iv y A j< 0^ f’HTdSoiKOG^ lC®I< ^ClE^Kd^.
kiiflj Spintaltssm m @xmt gniam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : it, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosquc 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lillev LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue Florimont„ BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK? Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. xoio, Seventh-street.
No. 311.—(VOL. XIIL—No. 6.) LONDON: FBIDAY, AUGUST 9, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
intents.
Spiritualism and the Medical Profession  ... ... 61
Spiritual Phenomena in Wiesbaden. By G. Wiese  61
Mr. 0. G. Massey ... ... ... ... .;. ... ... ... ... ... .62
The Identity of the Higher Teachings of Spiritualism with
Bible Christianity. By C. W. Pearce 63
The Suicide of a Medium in America...  ...  65
Professor Tyndall and the Spirits. By P. P. Alexander,
M.A., Author of Mill and Carlyle, MoralCausation, &e. 66
Psychological Phenomena in Australia and Elsewhere.
By Frederick Sinclair:—A Murder Discovered by a
Dream—The Dody of a Suicide Supposed to have been
Discovered by a Dream—A Strange Ghost—A Trouble-
   .some Ghpst-^-The Ghost of a Musical Pawnbroker—
Spontaneous Spirit Bapping  67
Correspondence:—Spiritual Manifestations in the House of
the Bev. E. Phelps, D.D.—Ivory Bings—Spiritualism
in Australia—Visions in Mirrors and Crystals—
Women’s Freedom—Disinterested Spiritualism—The
English Souvenirs of Mr. A. J.Biko  ...  70
Dr. B. W. Bichardson on Spiritualism. By R. M. Theo-J
bald, M.A., M.E.O.S., Eng 72
Spiritualism in Manchester   72
.AnB'vs'ers to Correspondents  ...  72
Paragraphs:—Mr. and Miss Dietz. 62 ; Gambling House
Religion, 62; A New Application of the Doctrine of
Total Depravity, 62; Mr. W. Eglinton, 67; Artistic
Ability, 67 ; The Hydesville Manifestations in 1848,
‘ ." 69 ; The Matrimonial Affairs of Mr. Perkins, of Boston,
69; Psychography ... ... ...    71
P THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PEICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rjnHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. E. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, B.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred B.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Oourt of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Ohurch (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital • Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B.(India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ol
the‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F:R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A;, LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
imry; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N.. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States); Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
ihe Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Bue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Borne: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Bue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. . Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Booms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgoniery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.C.
LEAVES EROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with gome account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
88, GREAT BUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Offices at 38, Great Russell-street, will be closed on
Saturday, July 27th, and re-opened on Monday, August 26th.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30. a.m. to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high-class journals,
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: Two Guineas a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Five shillings
a year includes membership, and an extra subscription of ten
shillings entitles one book from the lending library. Half-a-
Guinea a quarter entitles non-members to the use of the read¬
ing room and library, and also of the lending library.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-street, W.C,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
Thb object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—  H. E. FRANCES, HON. SRO.
MR. and MISS DIETZ having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (“One of
the most successful series ever known in London”), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—the
West of England, during the first week in October; Scotland,
during November; the Midland Counties, early in December.
Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route. For par¬
ticulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, Loudon,
S.W. Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture on
“ American Humour,” illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors. 
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berner s-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. II. July. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—The Two Schools of Thought. By St. George Stock.
II.—James Hinton. By William White.
III. —Clairvoyance and Psychography. By Epes Sargent.
IV. —The Abate of San Gandolfo. By J. O. Earle.
V.—Remarkable Psychological Experiences. By A. E.
Newton.
VI.—^Psychology of the Bible. By J. W. Farquhar.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. II.—Issoudun. By Eev. H.
N. Grimley.
VIII.—Thirtieth Anniversary of Modem Spiritualism. By
Thomas Shorter.
Leaves from My Life—An Innocent Sinner—Buddhism—
Miss Martineau Defended—More Glimpses of the World
Unseen — Concerning Everlasting Punishment — Possible
Planetary Influences—An Intelligent Tree—Psychography—
The Truthseeker — Views of our Heavenly Home —The
Master’s Field—Marguerite Marie Alacoque.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
ANNALI HELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Bivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, 23. No.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno-
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W'.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KABDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand. '
Price 7s. 63. Trubner & Co., London.
SCARCE AND VALUABLE BOOKS.
(Second hand.)
The Spiritual Magazine, Vols H to XIV. (A.d. 1860 to 1873
£7 10s.
The Celestial Telegraph (Cahagnet), 12s.
From Matter to Spirit (Mrs. De Morgan), 10s. 
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Pricels.; post free Is. Id.—SpiritwoMst Newspaper
Branch Office.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type a/nd all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & CO.
Show Rooms :—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, E.O.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “ HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, genera
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <fec.
post free, seven stamps.
TSiRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
JL3 29 & 30, Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane, W.Oi
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on th® minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application
   FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager
FOR THE TOILET. THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal oj Cutaneous Medicine:
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London. 
IMPORTANT NOTICE.—MARGARET FOX
KANE, of the original Rochester Fox family, widow of
Dr. Kane, the first Arctic explorer in search of Sir John
Franklin, is staying with a friend at 2, Scarsdale Villas, Ken¬
sington, where she will give seances, or, when desired, will'
give sittings elsewhere. At home from two till eight o’clock ■
on,Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday. ; ■ _
SECRETARY and CORRESPONDENT.
A well-known and favourite Literary Contributor to
The Spiritualist would like a congenial appointment where
character, ability, and confidential trustworthiness are re¬
quired. Excellent press and shorthand experience. Address
Junius,” 36, Royal-road, London, S.E,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Aug. 9, 1878,
ii
BBITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873,)
President.
Alex. Ca'der, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice. Presidents.
Black burn. Charles, Bark field, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleinan, Beniamin, 1 Bernard-villas, Unper Norwood.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs , 19. Cambridcre-street, Hyde-park, W.
Eitz-Gerald. Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brlxton. S.W.
Gregcrv, Mrs, Makdoneall, 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood Mrs.. 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jeneken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C , Barrister-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end. Finchley, N.
Speer, StanhopeTempleman.M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
read, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., Lancrley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A.. 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S., Yale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John, 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W, H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lvnwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Oherstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Filton. R., 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sbooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H,, 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westhourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street. Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Be.rners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A., 14, Wilton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Rlchmond-road. Dalston.
Morse,.! J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stairton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould, Rev. w. w., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W, 11, Mitre-courr, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickorsgill, W. C„ 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Relmers, Christian. 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Strawhvidge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West BromptOn,
S.W.
Sfrawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30. Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granvilie-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Trodwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P , Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. ■!., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hcnsleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M. A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Ormc-«ouare, Bayswater, W.
Withal!, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, IL, 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Caldcr, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
tT, W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-dc-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empercur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, KhandeRassim Pacha aBahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneherg, Holstein.
W. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles,Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York. U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq ■, Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sireet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 684, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Mun-av Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A. ■
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H, Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 2, Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq.,9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z> Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A,
CemteLe de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Serjbe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Glducester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epryes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq,, 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgra*ve-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Beigrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Sr'd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society,Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasso, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalsto n Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
 dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita, 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and order essential to English Customs. 
~T H E TRIUMPH OF L O Y E,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Works by the Countess or Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. fid.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
cfc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
mHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
L UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G, F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E, W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the. Inner Life; 7s. fid. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney,
Third Edition. Price 8s.
 London :—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
H~~EAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price fid., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price fid., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, <fcc., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O. 
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; andMr.Bonghton, St. George’s-road.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from S o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLAGE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
; Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
9 engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.   
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
a is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, <fcc., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
M RS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal-
. ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
njodifled to suit circumstanees. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Clairvoyante. No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms.
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. fid. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-Court, S.W.
Price 5s. fid.
. Inspirational Poetry.
‘‘POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Pam I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. L»ve and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VH. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Paht II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX. Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer XXIV. Resurrexi XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin.—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth;
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. fid. each; postage 8d. per volume.
 London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
TO ARE OLD BOOKS on ALCHEMY,
JLA; MAGIO, and ASTROLOGY, for sale.—Send stamped
envelope to Mr. Halse, 40, Addison-road, Kensington, London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. AijiBN, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
j[ Xil % xf mh tl
No. 311.—Volume Thirteen; Number Six.
LONDON, FRIDAY. AUGUST 9th. 1878.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
Every Spiritualist knows that society suffers severely
because the members of the medical profession neither study
nor avail themselves of the power of mesmeric healing, by
means of which rapid cures, like those certified in The Spirit¬
ualist a fortnight ago, have sometimes been effected, after
medical art has failed. It is true that some of the public
seek this source of relief for themselves, but the number of
such is very small, as compared with the number who would
similarly derive benefit were the value of the method made
known to them by their medical attendants.
There are instances on record of individuals being troubled
by fantastic waking visions, who after sitting at a spirit
circle became physical mediums, and obtained objective
manifestations, the visions at the same time ceasing. There
are also instances of persons afflicted by similar visions being
brought under the notice of doctors, and by them sent to
lunatic asylums, where they soon became mad in real
earnest. In the first cases mentioned the psychic sensitives
were brought under the influence of good spirits, in the
latter cases the doctors sent them where they came under
the influence of bad ones. As medical men exclude all ideas
of the reality of spirit influence from their practice, they
sometimes bring about results like those just stated.
An example of demonstration of the value of the use of
the theory of occasional spirit influence was recently
printed in The Banner of Bight, Boston, U.S., and sent to
that journal by Mr. Thomas R. Hazard, of Parker House,
Boston. The narrative is dated June 29th, 1878, and sets
forth that Dr. Edmund Chessington successfully treated a
young lady who had been given over by her physician as
incurable, and who was on the eve of being sent to a
hospital for the insane. As his visits continued, he
learned that the lady was possessed by an “ ignorant, un¬
developed spirit,” who was finally induced to leave his
victim through the kind reasoning and advice of Dr.
Chessington. The day after the spirit had promised to
depart, the doctor found his patient “ completely restored
and in her right mind, to the great joy of her friends, and
has continued well ever since.” For full particulars, says
Mr. Hazard, readers who feel interested^may apply to Mr.
Pearson, 842, Harrison-avenue, Boston.
It is not contended that all insane people are possessed
by evil or ignorant spirits, and in the foregoing case Dr.
Chessington may possibly but have been the means of
removing subjective impressions ; yet numbers of cases of
insanity are due to the action of debased spirits upon
psychic sensitives, consequently a proportion of the insane
cannot be efficiently treated until medical men admit the
occasional presence of spirit action.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN WIESBADEN.
BY (J. WIESE.
Soon after I had posted you a condensed report of the
results of my latest experiments with a newly-discovered
non-professional medium, we obtained the ring test. On
Thursday night, 25th July, I noticed that the power was
strong, and that apparently a spirit of the higher class was
with us. He informed us that when he was on our earth
he was a doctor; that his name was Winterbottom. I put
on the table a solid brass ring of 14 centimetres diameter;
it had no breach or opening whatever, and I asked the
spirit-doctor whether he had power enough to thread that
ring on our arms whilst I held the hand of the medium in mine
with a tight grasp. Though the answer was “ Yes,” I did
not believe it could be done, but took the answer merely
as an affirmation that our spirit-friend would try his test;
but after the ring had been knocked about on the table with
some noise, and both our hands had been touched by it, I sud-
j | denly felt it threaded on my arm. At my request this ring
| | test was repeated whilst I held both hands of the medium
| in mine with a firm grip. In less than a minute the ring
!|| was threaded on my left arm joining his right, and whilst
11 j we thus kept our four hands firmly united, the ring threaded
lH on my left arm was pulled up and down my arm, and
m. repeatedly passed over our joined hands on*to his arm and
;) | back by an invisible power; no other person was present in
Hi our room, and the doors were locked. We are promised
I \ | that the same test shall be repeated with other persons.
||1 I was touched four times that evening—twice on my arm
|| and shoulder, quite out of the reach of the medium, who
sat opposite me on the other side of the table, with his back
m to the glass door of the balcony, which enabled me to see
j(! his head quite distinctly, and to watch any movement of
| | his. Under these conditions our invisible friend, at my
|| request, made one of his hands visible to me, for I saw a
| dark hand with part of a wrist suddenly appear close to the
I side of the medium’s head, so that the medium himself
| could not see it, nor did I tell him what I saw. The hand
remained suspended in the air in a vertical direction, its
| fingers pointing downwards towards the head of the medium
| for a short time, then it slowly approached his head. The
I \ | moment it reached it, the medium cried out to me, a Now
j | I am touched close to my right ear! ” thus giving proof
| I that he then felt what I saw with my eyes. All this was
I | done by the j?. doctor,” who, by-the-bye, previously informed
11 us that he had been called to the circle by a spirit-friend of
j j j ours who usually comes to us, because the medium, while
| | suffering from an attack of toothache, had, more in fun
| | than in earnest, asked whether the spirits could tell him
I | what he should do with his tooth. Shortly afterwards came
j j an answer containing very reasonable advice,
j On Monday last we received direct writing on a piece of
| | paper coated with lamp black; it was given in the presence
j | of an American gentleman, a perfect sceptic, who had
j | never been at a sitting before. The handwriting was
| beautiful, and quite different to any of ours; it gave
I answers to our questions, and advised our American friend
v to go home to his family at once. Shortly before this
j happened, the big brass ring disappeared from our table,
i j | and whilst we were looking all about the room for it with-
| (| out finding it, the ring suddenly dropped, as if from the
11 j ceiling of the room, before our eyes in full light, and fell on
I I the floor with considerable noise.
| I Last night my Russian friend, Mr. Julius Gillis, wrote
j j to me from Schlangenbad that on Saturday, the 27th July,
j | at a seance with the mediums, Mr. Williams, Mr. Rita, and
I | Mr. and Mrs. Herne, he obtained the wonderful result of
| j the linking of an ivory ring into a ring of wood without
| > | breakage—a fact which is unique in the history of psychic
I | phenomena as well as in the history of the world. I think
j j it is the best objective proof of the reality of psychic
I | phenomena—that is to say, of objective psychological facts
111 and changes in the condition of matter, produced by un-
|| known intelligent powers—ever received up to the present
jlj time, because no man is able to do the same. Not the
| | cleverest physicist, chemist, or conjuror is able to do it.
I | I wonder how Dr. Carpenter and others will explain away
j this disagreeable and demonstrable objective and scientific
I (| fact in order to save their reputation as scientific men, ad
111 majorem scientioe gloriam. They will have to exercise their
) | brains this time, and I am sure they will try to find some
] | loophole out of which to escape from acknowledging the
| | truth, and that they have really been mistaken. I should
| | not wonder if conjuring were to be Dr. Carpenter’s last
|j| resource, since that of unconscious muscular activity”
j j and “ ditto cerebration” have been exploded,
11! Wiesbaden, July 31st, 1878.
62
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 9, 1878.
MR. C. 0. MASSEY. |
Me. 0. C. Massey, Barrister-at-Law, Vice-President of "j
the British National Association of Spiritualists, and the |
counsel who defended Mr. Simmons in the Slade case, has j
received public recognition of his high professional ability ||
from the lips of the Judge at the Cornwall Summer ||
Assizes, where Mr. Massey had defended a woman charged I
with child murder, Mr. Justice Denman’s remarks, before j
summing up, are thus reported in the Western Morning |
News of July 29th :— j
“ His Lordship summed up at considerable length. He | |
said that whatever the result of the case might be, there j
was one thing he was sure they would all agree with him, j
and that was that not only the jury and himself, not only |
the prisoner, but also the administration of justice itself, !
were deeply indebted to the learned counsel, who, upon I
the simple suggestion of the judge, in order that the I
prisoner might not go undefended, had given the best of !
his skill and judgment to it, and had suggested to a juryas j j
earnestly, as ably, and as successfully, all such points as I
might tell in favour of the prisoner—whatever might be J (
the suspicions and feelings that had arisen—as if he had |
been fee’d with ten thousand guineas. It was a fact which j j
was highly honourable to the counsel and highly honourable j j
to the English bar. He (the Judge) might mention that i j
he had asked Mr. Massey to conduct the case. He readily j 1
responded to the invitation, and he had taken the case j
entirely at heart, and never had he heard a cause more |
skilfully and systematically dealt with, nor had he seen | j
better taste shown, than Mr. Massey had exhibited from |
beginning to end. There were, however, certain things j j
mentioned in the address which he did not altogether agree j i j
with, and he should comment upon those later on. But |
he thought it would not be right for him to commence his
observations on the general facts of the case without
expressing his thanks and also that of the jury, and, he
might add, that of the prisoner, to Mr. Massey for the j j
admirable manner in which he had conducted the defence.” j
Mr. Massey is one of the most honourable, intelligent, and j j
utterly unselfish workers connected with the spiritual |
movement.   _   j
Mb. and Miss Dietz.—These well-known friends of Spiritualism are j)
about to give public entertainments in the provinces. The Pall Mall j)
Gazette says of them:—“Mr. Dietz excels in the recitation of American j (
poems—such as I Phil Blood’s Leap,’ and various productions—some |)
lyrical, others dramatic, others again indescribable—by Bret Harte and (
Max Adeler. Mr. Dietz has mastered all sorts of dialects and accents ; (
and his American twang, his Irish brogue, his North of England burr )
are equally effective. Miss Dietz’s method of recitation is impressive, j
without the least touch of exaggeration. She possesses abundant (
dramatic force; but her clear enunciation and her refined manner are )
quite as noticeable as her power of impersonating a character, or of j (
enteriqg into the spirit of a situation. Nothing could be more perfect I (
than her reading of Mrs- Browning’s Romance of the Swan's Nest." j)
Gambling House Religion.—This narrative is from the Sportsman j j
newspaper:—Among many other touching stories told of the late John I)
Morrissey by the New York papers is the following:—A young man of j j
great promise, a resident of New York city, and a clerk in a large j;
business house, found his way into Morrissey’s gambling saloon, and j /
while there lost in play a sum of 12,000 dols., which was for the moment j (
in his possession, but which belonged to the firm in whose service he ])
was. The next day the young man, realising his position, went to his j (
mother and told her what had happened. She, almost wild with grief, !
repeated the story to her husband, who at her suggestion confided it to j)
“ one of the best known Republican leaders of New York.” The j (
Republican leader, sympathising with the family in their trouble, went | (
to Morrissey, and, laying the case before him, assured him that dis- |)
grace and ruin would be brought upon an estimable family if the money | (
lost by the young man was not returned. Morrissey listened quietly j s
to all that was told him, and then said, “ Well, that is all very well, i)
but the young fellow lost the money fair; and as for him being a poor j (j
innocent young dove that didn’t know anything of the world, that’s all j v
stuff; he has been in our place often and won many a pile; but for the j )j
old woman’s sake I’ll see what I can do. Come to my house to-morrow j (i
morning, and like as not I can make the thing all right.” The next j \ i
morning the gentleman came as he was directed, and with the simple 151
words, “ Tell the old woman to keep her boy away from sportin’ houses,” I (]
Morrissey handed him the exact sum the young clerk had lost. This j) |
benevolent action of Morrissey was publicly related the other day in j
honour of his memory by Senator Cameron, who added, “If such an j(i
action does not cover a multitude of sins, my seventy-nine years of ||i
life have taught me no lessons and brought me no knowledge.” . \U
The Voice of Truth, the new weekly Spiritualist periodical in the
United States, has ceased to exist.
Mb. Shbosbbee informs us that he has taken a hall at No. 298, Com¬
mercial-road, London, E., where he intends to give facilities for the
holding of seances by inquirers, every Monday evening at eight o’clock.
A “ Woman’s Rights Intebnational Congbess,” has been formed at
Paris, in which, according to the programme sent us, all the great
countries of the world except England are represented. The secretary
is M. L£on Richer, 4, Rue des Deux-Gares, a Paris.
On Wednesday next, at 8 p.m., Mr. J. L. Bland, of Hull, will
lecture before the Hull Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, on
his recent experiences in connection with Spiritualism in London. Mr.
Thomas Thelwall is expected to preside.
Spibitualists are organising in Australia under the title of the
Victorian Association of Spiritualists. Orderly organisation promotes
freedom, by giving every Spiritualist a voice in the management of
the public business of the movement.
The narrative about the ghost of a musical pawnbroker, sent to us
from New South Wales, and published upon another page, would be of
exceeding value as evidence of “ spirit identity,” were it authenticated
by documentary evidence, and by the publication of true names and
addresses. Cannot some resident in Sandhurst send us a full verifica¬
tion of the narrative, thereby making id of scientific and historical
use %
At a meeting last week of the Marylebone Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism, Mr. George King presided, and stated that it was
himself who initiated the removal of “ the Christianity clause ” from
one of the earlier programmes of the British National Association of
Spiritualists. At that time he had neither seen nor heard of the
articles of Mr. Villiam Howitt, which articles Mr. Howitt told the
readers of The Christian World were the cause of the abolition of the
clause. Mr. C. W. Pearce then read a paper, which is published upon
another page.
A New Application of the Doctbine of Total Depbavity.—Every¬
body will remember the old lady of blessed memory who expressed the
conviction that total depravity was a very good doctrine, if people would
only live up to it. It is evident that the common house-fly is an earnest
believer in this doctrine, and that it lives up to its faith with the utmost
zeal and fidelity. The man does not live who has ever discovered a
single virtue in these pestiferous creatures, while there is not a vice
known to the moral code to which they are not recklessly and hopelessly
addicted. It is a case of original sin working out its results unchecked,
and no scheme of regeneration has even been introduced among them.
The ant is industrious, the bee is skilful and useful to man, the flea may
be taught amusing tricks, spiders have, ere now, become pets and
relieved the tedium of solitary prisoners, and even bugs and worms
have their modest merits, but the fly was never known to perform a
meritorious act, and all his energies are devoted to making an unmiti¬
gated nuisance of himself. Perhaps his most conspicuous trait is
his colossal impudence. Albeit diminutive in size, he will outdo a
wilderness of hotel clerks and railroad officers in the display of arrogance
and impertinence. He is more penetrating than love, and stony limits
cannot keep him out. No privacy is so sacred that this pestilent
intruder does not make his way to its inner depths, without even offer¬
ing an apology. He never waits for an invitation, but comes every¬
where as a“ dead-head,” without as much as remarking, “ by your leave.”
Not only is the fly an intolerable bore, through his persistent presence
where he is not wanted, and his offensive familiarity, but his habits are
every way bad. As a “ dead beat ” he has no rival in animated nature.
He keeps all manner of late hours, and utterly disregards the laws of
health and decency. He loafs about bar-rooms, and partakes of free
lunches without the least sense of shame or degradation. He eats and
drinks of everything that can be eaten or drank, and always at the
expense of somebody else, and without the slightest show of gratitude.
Filth is as attractive to him as elegance and luxury, and he has a most
repulsive habit of exploring every accessible mass of pollution and
straightway betaking himself to the unprotected cheek of beauty or the
delicious cates of the fastidious epicure. He delights in tormenting
man, from whose labours he derives his chief sustenance, and will take
any mean advantage to give him annoyance. If his victim has the mis¬
fortune of having to part his hair with a towel, he will rally his forces
and make the sensitive expanse of the bald cranium a regular parade
ground. He will pounce upon a man while he is helpless in a barber’s
chair, with his arms swathed beneath half a dozen yards of calico, and
the perilous edge of the razor at his throat, and will harry him almost
to distraction. He will catch his victim in the act of taking or trying
to take a nap, whether in the morning as a fringe to the disturbed
slumbers of the night, or after dinner as a restoration from the cares of
the day, and with maddening ingenuity will keep him from the desired
boon, and bring him to a state where he is ready to accept the counsel
of Job’s wicked wife. And what are the consequences of the life of
iniquity pursued by this depraved insect ? Is there retribution adequate
to his offences prepared for him either in this world or the world to
come ? On the theological branch of this inquiry we shall not presume
to offer an opinion, but we are sure that he never comes by his full
deserts here. We believe it is a fact that he never dies a natural death.
No one ever knew a fly to be stricken down by disease or to linger out
a painful existence under medical treatment. He sometimes falls a
victim to his invincible curiosity or insatiable appetite, and is scalded
in tea, drowned in milk, or smothered in molasses, and occasionally he
is crushed or slaughtered as a penalty for his temerity, but he never
dies of sickness or old age. Barring accident or violence the fly is
practically immortal, a perennial nuisance, a standing example of total
depravity, without, so far as we know, the eternal punishment which is
its proper corollary.—New York Times.
Aug. 9, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
63
THE IDENTITY OF THE HIGHER TEACHINGS OF
SPIRITUALISM WITH BIBLE CHRISTIANITY.*
BY C. W. PEAECE.
Mr. Chairman, Ladies, and Gentlemen,—The subject of this even¬
ing’s lecture was suggested by reading an extraordinary letter which
appeared in the Christian World of March 22nd of this year, written by
Mr. Wm. Howitt, from Meran in the Tyrol, under date 7th of the same
month, to warn his countrymen against the ‘ ‘ present degraded status ”
of Spiritualism. This letter was one of very many on the subject of
“Present-Day-Spiritualism,’’ which appeared in the Christian World
during several successive weeks in the spring of the year, the editor of
this paper having, with a liberality unparalleled by the religious press of
this country, opened the columns of his influential paper for many
weeks to communications on this subject.
My justification for referring to Mr. Howitt’s letter is his high
character and his well-deserved literary reputation throughout the
world. This prestige gives weight to his words, and compels those who
have evidence that his conclusions are erroneous to take notice of
them notwithstanding. Farther, if any man commands the attention
of Spiritualists that man is Wm. Howitt—not that there are not men in
the present day who work harder, and with almost an absolute abnega¬
tion of self, to disseminate the knowledge of open communion between
the worlds seen and unseen, but Mr. Wm. Howitt was one of those
who, twenty or twenty-five years ago, led the forlorn-hope of the move¬
ment against the hostile forces of the ecclesiastical and scientific worlds
with such an invincible determination and undaunted courage, that
their Mamelon and Malakof of non-possimus and closed-revelation were
taken and utterly destroyed, thus making certain, sooner or later, the
capture and complete destruction of the city of unbelief. These con¬
siderations, coupled with the publication of the letter in the Christian
World—a journal of pre-eminent influence and world-wide circulation-
make it necessary for us as Spiritualists to inquire into the truth of these
charges against “ Present-day Spiritualism,” made and placed on record
by Mr. Howitt; and, if they are proved to be without foundation in
fact, every one will regret that a man to whom we owe so much, and
whose name we wish to' cherish with unbroken gratitude, should be now
so far removed from us as to misunderstand and misrepresent us.
I have here the Christian World of March 22nd which contains this
letter. I do not purpose reading it in extenso—it is much too long,
occupying more than a column and a quarter of the paper—but I shall
cite from it sufficient to disclose its spirit. I have no doubt that, after
you have heard the citations, you might be under the impression that
in the uncited portion there will be something to mitigate the gravity of
the charges and severity of the denunciations. This, however, is not
the case; only the tip of the lowest feather in the back of the wing of
the angel of charity—that angel who “ thinketh no evil,” and “ hopeth
all things ”—is visible; and this is shown in the hope expressed that a
new Spiritualistic journal, then about to start, might be the “ beginning
of better things.” Were it not for this the entire letter, from its
first word to its last, would be a manifestation of unmitigated
uncharitableness.
Mr. Howitt, after a cursory reference to his defence of the truth of
the phenomena and a passing affirmation of their reality, says con¬
cerning the movement: “During its early years, its advocates—men of
serious character and elevated Christian convictions—entertained the
most cheering hopes of its becoming the means of corroborating the
miraculous relations of the Bible, and thus invigorating the Christian
faith, . . . but a totally opposite result has now taken place: everywhere
Spiritualism has announced itself as the sworn enemy of the Gospel of
Christ. It boasts of turning its votaries back to every species of
heathenism.” These comprehensive assertions strike the chord of the
whole letter. Those referring to the earlier years of the dispensation
are true beyond a question. To see whether the latter are, I purpose
citing from The Spiritualist newspaper, in which Mr. Howitt asserts
“ this anti-Christian leaven is sufficiently obvious;” and from the pub¬
lished utterances of some of the leading members of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, from whose programme, according
to our authority, “ Christianity was expressly banned and excluded,”
whilst its members were “ to embrace as fellows the holders of every
other spiritual credence, however absurd and degrading.” If time
permit, I will also quote from the direct utterances of spirits. To quote
from the direct utterances of spirits is, perhaps, to go outside of Mr.
Howitt’s circle, for I do not understand him to say the spirits have
announced themselves as the “ sworn enemy of the Gospel of Christ,”
although he says Spiritualism everywhere has announced itself as such.
But as the citations I shall give will be from the communications of
spirits to members of the British National Association, and reported by
them, and approved by them, they will be for every reason admissible.
Perhaps many or all of you will say, Why confine yourself to
The Spiritualist and. British National Association? Why ignore The
Medium, the “ Spiritual Institution,” and the other papers and societies?
Why 1 because Mr. Howitt has ignored them. Let them not, however,
think they are excluded from his condemnation. The phrases
“ Spiritualists everywhere,” “ Spiritualism everywhere,” include all. You,
here, who are striving to live so that the world may be the better for
your presence in it, who are trying, however imperfectly it may be, to
embody in your lives Christ’s glorious gospel of doing good; our
chairman, whose life’s aspiration is similar, and I, who desire to be
ruled by the same principle, are each and all, if active Spiritualists,
classed by Mr. Howitt as “ sworn enemies of the Gospel of Christ.”
In consequence, therefore, of Mr. Howitt’s reference, and to prevent a
charge of inability to refer to the pages of The Spiritualist, and the
sayings and doings of such Spiritualists as may sympathise with or
belong to the “ National Association,” I confine myself to these. If
* A paper read on Tuesday, last week, before tbe Marylebone Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism, Mr. George King, F.S.S., in the eliair.
II am told hereafter that these do not represent all the Spiritualists in
Britain, I shall not dispute the statement, for I am not a member of
the Association, neither has the editor of The Spiritualist undertaken to
represent me ; but he has frequently in the past allowed me to express
in the columns of his paper opinions differing from his own, so likewise
has the editor of The Medium.
i I have stated that the higher teachings of Spiritualism are identical
with Bible Christianity. This is my experience. By Bible Christianity
I mean exactly what Mr. Howitt means by “ the Gospel of Christ.”
| But Mr. Howitt says, “everywhere Spiritualism has announced itself
| as the sworn enemy of the Gospel of Christ.” Now, the simple Gospel
i of Christ is not difficult to formulate. The shortest is that enunciated
by Jesus Himself, viz., “ Hear, O Israel; the Lord our God is one
|| Lord, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with
all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength, and thou
I shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.” This commanded the assent of
| the learned scribe who asked Jesus to state which was the first or
| greatest commandment. This learned man, whose position and repu-
| tation depended upon his faithful observance of the Jewish ritual, the
| Mosaic ceremonial, instantly recognised the Gospel, Christ’s Gospel,
| and admitted its obligation, admitted it to be above, independent of.
I even more than their divinely appointed and most sacred sacrifices.
1 This definition Mr. Howitt accepts also ; but in order that there may be
| no misunderstanding what he means by this gospel, I will use his own
| words and make them mine. “ The Gospel of Christ,” says he,
| “ demands purity in the inward part, and the utmost possible love to
God, and to our fellow-men—a religion which has the most solid creden-
j tials of history, prophecy, and a code of the most divine and ennobling
morals.” This, then, is what Mr. Howitt regards as the “ Gospel of
| Christ,” and this I also regard as the “ Gospel of Christ,” and this is
! the “ Gospel of Christ.” I am thus particular about this matter,
because an immense amount of mischief and misunderstanding arises
I out of the loose and almost universal habit of regarding the Gospel of
Christ, i.e., Bible Christianity, as identical with that system of ritual,
| doctrine, and confession, most happily called by our chairman
Churchianic Christianity. These are no more identical than the
| clothes which cover the body are identical with the body, but they may
| be said to bear the same relation to the Gospel as clothes do to the
body. The body is of one blood in all men, and the Gospel of Christ is
; the same in all men. For reasons which would not be at all difficult to
I give, as you will readily understand, mankind, in this state of the world’s
development, deems it necessary to cover their bodies with clothes of their
own making, so also do they find it useful and necessary to cover the
j body of Christ with dressings almost as various as those which cover
i their bodies; but these clothes, these rituals, doctrines, and confessions,
although very useful, indeed absolutely essential to most men, are not ,
only not the Gospel, but they really encumber and hide it. Bearing in
| mind, then, that the Gospel of Christ consists in inward purity, and the
| utmost possible love to God and love to man, and that a conformity to
| any system of ritualistic or church fellowship forms no part of it, let us
now examine how far Mr. Howitt’s charges against Spiritualism and
| Spiritualists are sustained by the public and recorded utterances of a
I few of some of those who are now most actively interested in the move-.
ment. I could bear my own testimony to the Christian character and
j life of striving to embody the Gospel of Christ in everyday work of
! some whose words I shall cite, but I refrain. I will let them speak for
j themselves, as they are reported in The Spiritualist, the journal in
| which it is said “ the writers therein advocate Paganism as preferable to
I Christianity.” To prevent the inquiry becoming unmanageable, the
examination shall be confined to Spiritualism in this country. Mr.
Howitt says: “ In America, Australia, France, Italy, Spain, it is
equally distinguished by the same hatred of the religion of Christ, and
I the same proclivities to heathen ideas.” But, in excluding these
| countries from the present examination, I should not be doing justice
to my convictions were I to refrain from stating my belief that
j in each of these countries the heart of the movement throbs with
| a new and diviner human life. There is recoil, but it is the recoil
of the more sensitive spiritual life from Christian profession as
i opposed to Christian life. The rapprochement to the more anciently
given systems of truth, to the doctrines of Brahma and Buddha,
called “Paganism’’ by Mr. Howitt, wherever it exists I hail
with satisfaction, as an evidence of awakened spiritual life, as a rising
| above the traditions of the elders, which are so frequently, and in the
Christian Church too frequently substituted for the “ Word of God,” to
I His complete obscuration. Depend upon it everyone who, imagining
j Churchianic Christianity to be Bible Christianity, turns himself from
| personal tritheism and its naturalistic doctrines to strive to practise a
religion of life such as Buddha inculcated, will not rest there. He will
| either here or in the future life see Christ in Buddha, and acknowledge
him to be the Lord.
| In referring particularly to Spiritualism in this country, Mr. Howitt
notices a book recently published, entitled Hafed, Prince of Persia,
I dictated, written, and illustrated entirely by spirits through the medium-
I ship of Mr. Duguid, of Glasgow, and as an evidence of its hostility to
i the Scriptures he observes that the book teaches “ that Christ did not
I receive His doctrines directly from heaven, as the Scriptures, both old and
| new, everywhere assert,” and he adds, “ this book was rapturously received
I by the majority of English Spiritualists.” If all this were true, and it
j were the whole truth, it would tend towards substantiating Mr. Howitt’s
| charges; but as I read the book I am compelled to arrive at different
| conclusions. The following extract referring to the interview with the
Jewish doctors in the Temple is an index to the character of its teach¬
ings concerning the source of the knowledge of the man Christ Jesus.
| Hafed says:—
“ Coming back to the city, I went to the Temple, as I had been accus¬
tomed to do; and was surprised when I beheld the young Lad—whom
i I had left in charge of His parents—in the midst of the learned dis-
THE SPIRITUALIST.
64
Aug. 9, 1878.
putants, putting such questions and giving such answers as fairly to j
silence these venerable fathers of the Hebrew nation. I really smiled j
as I looked on their dumfoundered faces. Ah! where had this Boy j
gained His knowledge of these things? His teachings were not of j
earth ; they must come from the Great and Holy Spirit, the Source of
all truth, the Ruler of the universe. I took no part in the discussion, j
I was entranced. I could say nothing, and wondered to see the grey- i
haired venerable men sitting powerless before this mere Child.’’
jg: Issha, the Egyptian priest, stated by “ Hafed ” to have had the care
of the “ young Child ” upon His being taken to Egypt, says of the Child
—“ this little One speaks of Heaven, and opens up Paradise in all its
glory and beauty—telling me things not spoken of on earth. When I
contrast the wisdom of Egypt with the sayings of this Child the one is
far surpassed by the other. ... I believe this young Prince ... to be
indeed the Son of God, having in Him the Spirit of the Father.” As a |
Boy and a human being He would need education, and nothing j
more likely than that He would make Himself acquainted as a boy I
and as a young man with every system of religion which had been given j
to men. This relates to mere earthly knowledge. Those in whose charge j
and companionship He is made to be in the book, all unite in acknow- j
ledging His wisdom to be “not of the earth,” but “from the j
Spirit of the Father.” The book further speaks of Him as “ The Prince j
of Peace,” the “ Messiah,” the Giver of the “ Law and commandments j
to Moses;” and just the same account of His birth and Divine
parentage is given as is to be found in the Scriptures. The book was I
well received by English Spiritualists, because their reading of it was i
more careful than Mr. Howitt’s; and I deeply regret to observe this :
same want of accurate knowledge and careful observation is apparent in j
every charge against Spiritualism in this country made in this letter i
now under review. Of this I will give you sufficient proof; the allegations j
against the British National Association affording the next illustration. i
I must guard myself here against being supposed to charge Mr.
Howitt with making false statements knowingly. Indeed, this must be
understood throughout. I believe him to be incapable of deliberate
untruth; but I cannot resist the conviction that in this letter he has
written hastily and upon erroneous information.
This Association, we are informed, started with a programme from
which Christianity was expressly banned and excluded. It is not in
my purpose to inquire whether or not the Association is representative
of Spiritualism in England; I have to do with the fact of its existence,
and the use to which Mr. Howitt has tried to put it. By its programme
Christianity is said to have been banned and excluded. This banning
and excluding was, we learn further on in the letter, effected by one
particular article, suggested, according to our authority in his letter of
April 19th, by “ a very active medium and lecturer of the present time,”
whose name he mentions elsewhere. These statements are very cir¬
cumstantial, and it appears to be going hard with the Association. So
righteously indignant was Mr. Howitt at the “ shameful programme,”
that we are not surprised to hear that he made a “ vigorous onslaught ”
upon it, resulting in the Association being compelled “ to haul down its
colours in a hurry, and to expunge this particular article of their pro¬
clamation.” So precise is Mr. Howitt in his statements, so certain as j
to his facts is he, that in his second letter he plainly states the
“obnoxious article” was erased “at a public meeting of the Associa- |
tion, avowedly in consequence of my exposure.” Such evidence as this j
from Mr. Howitt would, in the absence of irrefragible proof to the !
contrary, be deemed conclusive, and the Association would stand con- j
demned. Now, if a person of lesser reputation than Mr. Howitt,
obtaining his information from a similar source to that from whence Mr. }
Howitt obtained his, viz., hearsay, were to assert that he had been 1
misinformed, that the information upon which he had based his state- j
ments was “ a mere refaciamento from (western) extravagances of fancy,
without the smallest possible basis of proof or fact,” he would probably
be made the subject of another such a “ vigorous onslaught ” as that |
inflicted upon the editor of The Spiritualist, whose correction of Mr. j
Howitt was denounced by him in the Christian World of the 29 th j
April in these words—“This is a hardy and impudent assertion,
of course resulting from my exposure of Spiritualism at present, j
and the character of that journal.” But if a person who j
took an active part in the construction of the “ shameful pro¬
gramme, who is personally conversant with every detail of the !
growth of the programme, from the causes which led to its inception, i
publication, and withdrawal, if such an one testify differently, you will j
have personal testimony versus “ hearsay.” The first would be received i
in every court of justice in the kingdom, the latter scouted from its doors.
Such testimony I myself can give you, and our chairman can confirm I
me in much. I am much pained to have to refer to this subject, but it I
is a duty. Mr. Howitt has rashly charged this Association with trying j
to institute a rebellion against the descent of the Divine Spirit; it is
consequently necessary to confute him. The statements he makes are— |
By a particular paragraph of the Association’s programme Christianity
was expressly banned and excluded. This paragraph was suggested by j
a very active medium and lecturer of the present time. A vigorous i
onslaught by Mr. Howitt compelled the Association to expunge the !
obnoxious article. The obnoxious article was erased at a public meeting |
of the Association, avowedly in consequence of Mr. Howitt’s exposure.
The members of the Association were to renounce Christianity, but to j
embrace as fellows the holders of every other species of spiritual j
credence, however absurd and degrading. The Association, notwith- !
standing the erasure of the obnoxious article, remains utterly hostile to !
Christianity. This hostility is every day more apparent. At the time j
referred to in the first four statements I belonged to the Association, and i
was one of its Organising Council, having been amongst the first who i
were invited by Mr. T. Everitt, in pursuance of the resolution of the \
representative Liverpool Conference, to form the nucleus of an associa- j
tion, and up to the time of the hauling down the colours and erasure of j
the article referred to ab^ve, 1 was permitted by my colleagues on the \
11 Council to take an active part in everything concerning it. A few weeks
11 after I joined the young Association, I was permitted to invite my friend,
1 ] the chairman, who is a scientific man, and closely related to one of the
I j most eminent of our Royal Society men, to connect himself with us. He
accepted the invitation, and was elected a member of the Council, and he
I remained a member of the Council long after I withdrew from the Asso¬
ciation. The Council Was composed of persons who were connected
j with different sections of the Christian Church, and of one or more who
i made no profession. All were in sympathy with the teachings of
Christ—with His simple gospel. During the construction of the pro-
| gramme, one of the Council, a gentleman professing the Trinitarian
i faith, suggested that the Association would make its way better if
Christianity were recognised in its programme. Now bear in mind
i that the Association was started to observe, record, and disseminate a
knowledge of the phenomena which demonstrated existence beyond the
| grave; nevertheless, the suggestion was taken into consideration,
I and adopted after careful consideration, although to frame an article
j which should evidence the sympathy of the Association with Bible
i Christianity, and its unsectarian character at the same time, was diffi¬
cult, because some of us failed at the first to see the difference between
Churchianic and Bible Christianity. Nearly three whole sittings of the
i Council were occupied in discussing the matter, and nearly every
| member drafted one or more articles, each one as it stood alone more or
| less objectionable. Ultimately, all agreed to fall back upon the un-
i obscured gospel of Christ—the teachings of Jesus—and an article con¬
taining the essence of all previous ones was adopted. This is the
i origin of the “ obnoxious ” article. Whatever its merits or demerits it
was constructed by the Council after full and earnest thought, and with
| a sincere desire to show the regard the Council felt for Christ’s gospel.
I At this time there was no active medium and lecturer on the Council, or,
i so far as my memory serves me, even a member of it, and unhesitatingly
| I declare that no suggestions from any such were communicated to the
| . Council in connection with this matter. This article was worded as
follows:—
| j The Association, while cordially sympathising with the teachings of
| Jesus Christ, will hold itself entirely aloof from all dogmatism or
i finalities, whether religious or philosophical, and will content itself with
the establishment and elucidation of well-attested facts as the only basis
on which any true religion or philosophy can be built up.”
The teachings of Jesus—the true gospel of Christ—Bible Christianity
meets here with cordial sympathy. It is dogmatisms and finalities, which
| obscure true Christianity, that are expressly banned and excluded. If
j Mr. Howitt disapproved of the construction of the article, he was not
justified in thinking evil, still less in expressing it. Why and how the
| article came to be erased from the programme is briefly as follows :—
| The Council, contrary to its hope, found, soon after the publication of
! the article, that the same variety of opinion as to what constituted
i Christianity, as had existed within itself, was manifested too
i antagonistically amongst the general body of its members to permit
i the hope that the definition agreed to by the Council would be
| accepted by them. When it became apparent that the laudable
I effort to please all had failed, our chairman—then a member of the
| Council, and then and now an earnest Christian—on his own respon-
1 sibility, and without knowing anything of Mr. Howitt’s “ vigorous
] onslaught,” submitted to the Council a fresh draft of the prospectus
j without the article, and moved its adoption in place of the original
j one. After due consideration Mr. King’s proposition was adopted by
| the Council, and submitted to the Association for ratification by private
| balloting papers, which were returned direct to the Council. Mr.
| King was ignorant of Mr. Howitt’s “ onslaught ” until this afternoon,
never so much as having heard of it. I have heard of it, but my
j knowledge extends no further. I never saw it. So we see the pro-
| gramme of the Association did not ban and exclude Christianity, and
! require its members to renounce it. On the contrary, Christianity
! has received cordial sympathy. The misunderstood article was not
I suggested by a very active medium and lecturer, but was the unin-
| fluenced composition of the Council. Neither was it erased at a public
j meeting of the Association, in consequence of Mr. Howitt’s exposure,
| but by the private ballot of the members, upon the motion of Mr. Geo.
] King, our chairman of to-night, who, until this afternoon, never heard of
| the exposure and onslaught paraded by Mr. Howitt. In closing this
| most painful part of the subject, let me say again I believe Mr. Howitt
1 is under the impression that the information upon which he based his
| statements was reliable. His fault lies as a public man addressing the
public in not obtaining his information from authentic records.
I will now consider the general charges against Spiritualism and
! Spiritualists generally, and as the authors I shall quote are some of
j them members of the British National Association, and as all my
| citations will be from The Spiritualist newspaper, I shall deal with
the whole at once. I need not recapitulate the charges. It is
| sufficient to remember that Mr. Howitt says, “ Everywhere Spirit-
!. ualism has announced itself as the sworn enemy of the Gospel of
| Christ. . . . The Spiritualists everywhere boast that they are on the
! way to discover a new and superior system of faith and worship from
j the teachings of the spirits In The Spiritualist this anti-
i Christian leaven is sufficiently obvious.” I have here The Spiritualist
I for more than a year previous to the date of Mr. Howitt’s first letter,
i and opening No. 229 I find Mr. Morse, who is, I suppose, the
most widely known trance lecturer on Spiritualism, saying in a trance
j addresss to the members of the National Association at their own
! rooms : “We rather oppose the idea of the erection of Spiritualism
| into a new religious system. ... We think not that we can give you
| any much better moral or religious code than you could get without
i Spiritualism. ... We may be able to help you to clear away clouds,
| to pull down barriers which stand before the grand truths of immor-
| tahty, but if we attempted to preach a new morality we think the
1 result would be a gigantic failure.”
THE SPIRITUALIST.
66
Aug. 0,1878.
In No. 235, Mrs. Hallock, the wife of Dr. Hallock, the well-known
Spiritualist, speaking at a conference held under the auspices of the
National Association, said she “ had to thank Spiritualism that she
was on the side of the Bible.” Dr. Wyld (M.D. Edin.), a member of
the Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists, at the
same place stated that “ modern Spiritualism had not taught him
any higher truths than those he arrived at thirty-five years ago by a
long and prayerful study of the mind and life of Christ, still it had
given him this blessing, that it had by its facts and revelations con¬
firmed him in his belief.” In No. 236, in an account of a seance with
“John King,” Mrs. Showers relates that he informed her in direct
writing that he found relief from despair in prayer to God. In No. 240,
the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly American Minister at the Court of
Portugal, relates that at a stance at which the late Theodore Parker,
the celebrated Unitarian minister, communicated, he informed him in
direct writing he now preaches from the text, “Now is Christ risen
from the dead, and become the first fruits of them that slept.” In the
same relation, Mr. O’Sullivan, referring to a certain Archbishop Hughes
whom he had known in the flesh, and who had communicated to him
since he departed this life, comments upon the Archbishop’s present
spiritual state thus—“ One thing is apparent from the Archbishop’s
communications, that while still adhering to the Church of which he
was a vehement champion as well as a high dignitary, the Catholicism
of Archbishop Hughes is now tha,t esoferic Christianity which is at the
root, and is the life and heart of all the sects, and indeed of all the
religions, and which is simply what Christ himself taught, viz., the
immortality of the soul, the Fatherhood of God, and the brotherhood
of men—in other words, ‘our Spiritualism.’” On page 161, Mrs.
"Woodforde, a well-known medium, in a long and interesting account of
spiritual impressions in Romish churches, speaks lovingly and reverently
of the Eternal One, with outstretched bleeding hands and thorn-
crowned brow, breathing into the heart the words, “Come unto Me,
all ye that labour and are heavy laden.” An anonymous writer,
a gentleman known to me, a very distinguished medium, through
whom a long series of papers were given which appeared in The
Spiritualist under the heading “ Spirit Teachings,” writing as a
medium in No. 242, says—“Read the lesson in the. life of the
Anointed One when He came forth to teach His people wisdom,
the whole of the spiritual life of the Jewish nation was cold
and bare as the leafless tree in winter. The sap had ceased, it
seemed, to flow. The branches were bare and gaunt, devoid of their
seemly covering of leaves. The weary traveller should look in vain
for fruit, or seek a stray flower to gladden his eyes. The death-
plague was on all. He came, the Anointed Messenger of God, the
chosen Messiah, on His missionary labours, the Son of Righteousness
and Truth—the Son, who was also the Sun, for there was no difference
there—shed His beams of enlightenment and warmth on those dead,
dry, naked branches, and see the change! Empty formalism glowed
again with spiritual truth, cold precepts were vivified again into ex¬
uberant life. What had been said by them of old time gained a new
and extended significance. Social life was elevated, reformed, ennobled.
Religion was raised to a pitch of spirituality it had never reached
before. In place of selfishness there was taught charity ; in place of
formalism, spirituality; in place of ostentatious idtual, silent, secret
prayer ; in place of open parade, religion—the seeking to be seen of
men—the seclusion of the secret chamber, the lonely communing
between self and God ! ” This is a specimen, and a fair one, of the
spirit, the essence, of column after column of spirit-teaching through
this same medium, as published in The Spiritualist. Miss Emily
Kislingbury, the secretary of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, in a communication to No. 243 thus expresses herself:
—“Nor can I believe that Spiritualism will create an entirely new form
of worship. In the past each new religion has been grafted on the old,
and the spirit has gradually passed from one to the other. Christianity
grew in the first place out of Judaism, and finally became assimilated
with the heathen forms of the various countries in which it took root.
It seems more likely that Spiritualism will enter into the Churches and
gradually modify and revivify the ancient forms ; that a new
Church will grow organically out of the old, and that a new
spirit will enter into it. . . . To me it seems that if we attempt to do
without creeds and forms we shall lose something which appealed to
our best instincts and satisfied our highest aspirations; more than
that, encouraged a holy frame of mind, and was an incentive to noble
deeds.’’ A church clergyman in the same number, in an article on
religion and science, says : As a Broad Churchman I see the great
beauty of the spiritualistic theory; it is capable of assimilation by
all religions. It is the one fundamental doctrine that lies at the root
of all, . . . the method of Spiritualism which is identical with the
method of Christ and the early Church.”
I wish time would permit me to repeat to you the sublime and
lovely language in which Archbishop Hughes from the spirit-world
addressed to the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan on the subject of the Christian
faith, but I can do no more than refer you to page 261, No. 249,
In No. 250, page 273, I find Mr. A. Smart saying, “ Thousands
have had before their ’apirations ideals of purity and goodness
infinitely more lofty than those of any sect or church in Christendom.”
This, I suppose, is Mr. Howitt’s justification for his assertion that
Spiritualists everywhere boast that they are on the way to discover a
new and superior system of faith and worship from the teachings of
the spirits. If so, he should have noticed the rebuke administered to
Mr. Smart by Mr. J. de Maine Browne in No. 253, page 309, and
Mr. Smart’s honourable explanation of an assertion which without it
appeared rash and extravagant. The spirit of the trance discourses
of Mr. Colville is best expressed by citing from a prayer offered by
him before delivering an inspirational discourse to the Dalston
Association of Spiritualists, in which he says: “Thou omniscient
and omnipotent Father of Lights, . . . may every soul filled
] i with love Divine offer unto Thee, both now and ever, acceptable
(| worship—even the worship of spirit and truth—which shall express
) I itself in love of Thee and of all mankind.” Mr. Alex. Calder, the
(I’ President of the British National Association of Spiritualists, was
i I accused by a member of the Association, in No. 274, of “ irreverence
) | for Jesus Christ,” and an attempt to “ supersede Christianity,” in his
(} address to the Association at the opening soiree of the season 1877-8.
11 Perhaps Mr. Howitt read this accusation, but did not see Mr. Calder’s
) i reply in the following number, in which he denies both charges, and
(| asserts that his address “ was based on principles similar to those uttered
j j by Jesus, and which may indeed be fairly called His own.” Now, if
) i Mr. Calder did not acknowledge in so many words-that Jesus Christ is
(I God manifest in the flesh, it is very evident he acknowledges it in his
| j effort to regulate his life by His principles, and in disseminating them.
) | Christ said to Peter, when he acknowledged Him to be the Son of God,
< | “ See thou tell it no man.’’ He said at another time, “ They that do My
) i will shall know of My doctrine.” The doing the will is more than the
) I doctrine, the life more than the most orthodox profession. The Rev.
( i Maurice Davies, D.D., author of Unorthodox London and many other
| i works, in advocating the religious union of Spiritualists, is reported
) i in No. 279 to say, “ But what we do not concede is, that the recogni-
(j tion of this intermediate agency would at all lessen the force of
j j Christ’s example, or diminish a man’s sense of the need of the Divine
) | Spirit. Quite the contrary. Again, it would teach him not only to
j | live soberly, not only to live righteously, but also to live godly in this
i; present world. ... If the angels in their graduated hierarchies ; if
)! the saints who blazon our calendar do not trench upon the honour of
j [ their Master, or lead us to depreciate the aid of the Holy Spirit, why
j | should this be the case when the angel is one who was once for us an
) i angel in the house?” I have now traversed the pages of The Spiritualist
| j for the year 1877, but I could multiply my evidences tenfold, from the
■ j! records of the year, that the spirit of the dispensation, as manifested
j) in the utterances of representative men and women, is loyal to the
j I Gospel of Christ, and that its higher teachings are identical with Bible
j I Christianity ; but 1 refrain. William Howitt’s assertions are now
|) placed side by side the utterances of the men and women whom he
| j j traduces. These judge them.
j THE SUICIDE OF A MEDIUM IN AMERICA,
j j Colonel Bundy, Editor of The Religio Philosophical Journal, Chicago,
] | U.S., has forwarded us the following sad intelligence:—
11 “ Last Saturday evening, Mr. Ernest J. Witheford, of No. 239, West
] I Madison-street, Chicago, hurried himself into the spirit-world by a
j pistol shot in the head. Lingering until daybreak on Sunday morning,
) 1 his spirit took its flight from its earthly tenement. He leaves behind
j I him a young wife, a sister, and an aged mother.
11 . “ Our readers will recognise his name as that of a person advertising
|! himself as a medium, and after following that vocation for years with
] j varying fortune, he was finally exposed, when adding to or performing
| j | manifestations at St.Louis, in company with ‘ Huntoon.’ Soon after this
) he turned exposer himself, giving exhibitions at Milwaukee, Madison,
! (| and Chicago; but his deceitful enterprise failed. He was not a had man
j j at heart. He was, beyond question, a medium for spirit manifestations,
|) | and had given hundreds of fine tests that will stand the closest
| ! scrutiny; but, lacking the moral stamina to withstand temptation, he
| | fell, and has paid the penalty. Only a few days before the fatal act he
| ) | desired us in the future not to couple his name with that of the knave
||| ‘ Huntoon,’ saying that he was trying to cut himself loose from such
| j company, and lead an honourable life. We cheerfully acceded to his
] 11 request.
“ The following is a copy of a letter found on his person after he com-
I | mitted suicide :—
| j | Chicago, July 20.—On August 24th, 1877, D. 0. Freeman struck the first
! )! blow at me when he stole my gas stock, worth over 700 dollars, by the aid of
) | letters of recommendation from B. P. Hutchinson and Major Blodgett, of
i 11 Chicago, and S. S. Merrill, of Milwaukee. Then A. B. Lathrop, of 239 J, New-
) j berry-avenue, struck the second blow when he seduced my sister. Finally the
) | pastor of the Third Presbyterian Church and the Presbyterian ministers
j i struck the last blow, when they turned traitors and betrayed every promise made
) j to me. I relinquished my life of fraud, only to be despised and run down by
j 11 them for taking a right step. My blood rests upon the heads of the three men
| ) i mentioned. “ Yengeance is mine, saith the Lord.”
| ) | Ernest J, Witheford, M.D.
j j j Friends, farewell.
j “ The poor fellow had been encouraged, petted, and flattered by the
!) | Presbyterian clergy of the city in his attempts to expose Spiritualism,
i j | When they had used him as far as answered their purpose they at once
i j gave him the cold shoulder.
Mi “ Every Spiritualist will breathe words of charity for poor Withe-
[! i ford’s career, and intercede with their spirit friends to aid him now that
If * the silver cord is loosed and the golden bowl is broken,’ and he is
| j | beyond the help of mortals. Let us not forget his heartbroken family,
| ] I and his mother, who, coming from a home of comfort and plenty in her
11! native England, finds herself in her old age in a strange land in
j j | poverty ; her daughter ruined; her son filling a suicide’s grave. Think
II j of his young wife, who after marrying the man of her choice, within a
few months finds him disgraced in the eyes of the people with whom he
I) j had cast his lot, and, after a short and ineffectual struggle, rashly
< j sending his spirit to another world, leaving her to go on alone as best
j j | she can. In the name of our readers, we extend to this afflicted
15 j family the tender sympathies of Spiritualists, and we know that one and
11 i all will gladly do what lies in their power to smooth the rugged path
I j { that lies before this bereaved household.”
1 (1 Mrs. Makdougall Gregory is in France,
66
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 9, 1878.
PROFESSOR TYNDALL AND THE SPIRITS*
BY P. P. ALEXANDER, M.A., AUTHOR OP “ MILL AND CARLYLE,” “ MORAL
CAUSATION,” ETC.
One only point of Professor Tyndall’s description of a
seance in Fragments of Science for Unscientific People seems
to me of any importance. Whilst a sentence about himself
was being spelt out, it struck him as odd that, though u the
knocks came from under the table, no person present
evinced the slightest desire to look under it.” He himself
asked permission to do so ; and “ having pretty well assured
himself that no sound could be produced under the table j
without its origin being revealed,” he found that the com¬
munications instantly ceased. So soon as, after a quarter !
of an hour of silence, he resumed his chair, the spirits
resumed their operations. This, as regards the seance in
question, seems certainly a little to discredit it: as regards
that at which Dr. Findlater and I were present with Mr.
Home, I have simply to set our experience against that of j
Professor Tyndall. Mr. Home expressly asked me to go j
under the table : whilst there, I, as thoroughly as Professor |
Tyndall could do, assured myself that no sound could be j
produced under the table without its origin being revealed,” j
and my experience was, that the knocks above, &c., went on
as vigorously as before. Subsequently Mr. Home even
urged that at any moment any one entertaining suspicion, j
should instantly seek to satisfy himself by going again j
under the table ; and, without impeachment of the phe¬
nomena, Dr. Findlater and I did so. Of course this
experience is only good to ourselves, and for the particular
case to which it refers; but I must be excused if, to my
own mind, it sufficiently disposes of the opposite experience
of Professor Tyndall as bearing on the general question.
For the rest, some of the main facts made use of by the
Professor, as disposing of the Spiritual phenomena, being [
meantime on the physical ground unintelligible to me, I I
must for the present decline to assign any weight to them. I
“ The knocks continuing, I turned a wine-glass upside down, j
and placed my ear upon it, as upon a stethoscope. The |
spirits seemed disconcerted by the act; they lost their play¬
fulness, and did not quite recover it for a considerable time.”
As the glass thus used as a stethoscope could merely a I
little, by vibration from the wood, intensify the sound of
the knocks, and could by no possibility avail to give hint of |
their true cause or origin, Ido not quite see how the spirits,
unless very stupid indeed, should have been seriously dis¬
concerted by an act so entirely unmeaning on the Professor’s |
part. It is not to this, however, but to his next use of the j
inverted wine-glass, that I specially desire to refer. A dis- j
tinct push having come to the table, Professor Tyndall
writes : “ I readily granted the fact of motion, and began j
to feel the delicacy of my position. There were several pairs j
of arms upon the table, and several pairs of legs under it; j
but how was I, without offence, to express the conviction j
which I really entertained ? To ward off the difficulty, I
again turned a wine-glass upside down and rested my ear j
upon it. The rim of the glass was not level, and the hair, on !
touching it, caused it to vibrate, and 'produce a peculiar buzz- j
ing sound. A perfectly candid and warm-hearted old gentle- |
man at the opposite side of the table, whom I may call j
A , drew attention to the sound, and expressed his entire j
belief that it was spiritual. I, however, informed him that j
it was the moving hair acting on the glass. The explanation j
was not well received.” There seems really no reason it j
should have been, being, as it was, so highly questionable, j
The odds are about ten to one that the glass used by Pro- j
lessor Tyndall the second time was the very same glass he j
had before used ; in which case the “ uniformity of nature ” j
might have led us to expect that the “ peculiar buzzing j
sound ” would have made itself audible to the company in j
the first as in the second experiment. Yet it should seem !
not to have done so—a point which a little requires explana- j
tion. Selecting from various wine-glasses some specimens j
not 11 level in the rim ”—i.e., the rim of which is not j
throughout its circumference in contact with the surface of |
the table—I have carefully tried the experiment, the result j
in every case being that no vibration whatever was induced, j
Putting my ear down towards the glass, and working my if
hair and whiskers against it, much more vigorously than |
* Extracted from Spiritualism, a Narrative with a Discussion, by &£ ?• Alexander, M. A. ! 1
j Professor Tyndall could have done in the circumstances, I
j am sensible of the faintest grinding sound of the hair
| against the glass ; but, as quite unaccompanied by vibra-
| tion, it is not sensibly diminished when I prohibit all
! possible vibration by clasping tight the bell of the glass
i and pressing it on the table. And so faint is this sound in
i the ear held close to the glass, that it must needs be well-
| nigh inaudible to the ear of anyone else; and is not without
i absurdity to be supposed heard as u a peculiar buzzing
| sound ” by people all round the table. Consequently,
| until I shall hear this peculiar buzzing sound pro-
! | duced in the way described by Professor Tyndall, or
[ | by some one else, I must beg utterly to doubt of its
i i existence, as so produced. Of the existence of the sound
[ | we can have no doubt; it was heard by u the warm-hearted
[ | old gentleman,” who had his own little theory of the matter;
' j it was also heard by Professor Tyndall, who at once jumped
11 to a theory of it: as it was synchronous with the contact of
11 his hair with the wine-glass, he at once assumed the relation
[ | of the facts to be that of cause and effect. His explanation,
\ i however, it seems, “ was not well received” by the company.
! | At this I don’t greatly wonder, as meantime much of the
| company’s mind, and quite declining to receive it. I say
| meantime declining, as meantime disposed to rest on the
accuracy of my own little course of experiment. The
experiment is an exceedingly simple one ; and every reader,
| per aid of a wine-glass and a mahogany table, may verify
| for himself my results, as compared with those of Dr.
| Tyndall. *
To proceed to another instance illustrative of Dr. Tyndall’s
scientific procedure. My attention,” he says, “was drawn
to a scarcely sensible vibration on the part of the table.
| Several persons were leaning on the table at the time, and I
| asked permission to touch the medium’s hand. ‘ Oh ! I
| know I tremble,’ was her reply. Throwing one leg across
| the other, I accidentally nipped a muscle, and produced
| thereby an involuntary vibration of the free leg. This
| vibration I knew must be communicated to the floor, and
thence to the chairs of all present. I therefore intentionally
promoted it. My attention was promptly drawn to the
motion; and a gentleman beside me, whose value as a
witness I was particularly desirous to test, expressed his
belief that it was out of the compass of human power to
i produce so strange a tremor. ‘ I believe,’he added earnestly,
‘that it is entirely the spirits’ work.’ ‘So do I,’ added,
with a heat, the candid and warm-hearted old gentleman
I A . ‘Why, sir,’ he continued, ‘I feel them at this
moment shaking my chair.’ I stopped the motion of the
I leg. ‘Now, sir,’ A  exclaimed, ‘they are gone.’ I
| began again, and A—- once more ejaculated. I could, how-
| ever, notice that there were doubters present who did not quite
! know what to think of the manifestations. I saw their per-
| plexity, and as there was sufficient reason to believe that the
disclosure of the secret would simply provoke anger, I kept
| it to my selfT
In one sense Dr. Tyndall’s procedure was judicious. Had
he spoken out—as clearly he ought to have done—whether or
j no he had provoked anger, he would certainly have provoked
| inquiry : his ‘ * free leg, ’ ’ as vera causa of the tremors, would
instantly have been called in question ; he would have been
asked to bring it out, with the other from under the table ;
to “ nip a muscle ” as before; and thus, or otherwise, as
before produce the tremors. And had he been asked to do
| so, it might perhaps have been found that the “ uniformity
| of Nature,” on which he so much relies, in this instance also
| failed him; the miracle (in Professor Tyndall’s sense a
miracle) might possibly have been made manifest to the
| company that Professor Tyndall could not successfully repeat
| his experiment. And it seems to me' really very doubtful
| whether he could have done so. The vibration of Dr.
Tyndall’s “free leg ” no one, of course, will question, seeing
he himself asserts it. As to the vibration of the floor as an
j effect of it, and as an effect of this the vibration, such as that
| impliedx “of the chairs of all present,” 1 confess I have some
| little difficulty. Precisely on the ground on which I before
j * Note a little point here: “ My hospitable host had arranged that the seance should be a
i dinner party. This was to me an unusual form of investigation; but I accepted it as one
!• of the accidents of the occasion” (provided the dinner and the wines were good, not, I
I should say, a disagreeable one). We may thus almost assume that a cloth would be upon
r the table; and with this condition, I have the highest scientific authority for saying that
i the phenomenon would be absolutely imposswle.—xJ, l’. A.
67
Aug. 9, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
impeached the asserted vibration of the wine-glass at a mere j j;
touch of Dr. Tyndall’s whisker (!) I have made rather care- | j j
ful experiment, and see reason to think that Dr. Tyndall, jv!
in the use of his legs as of his whiskers, merely illustrates | < I
what he himself would call the “Scientific use of the jj|
Imagination” (had not Dr. Tyndall been so really Scientific ! j
a person, I should have preferred to say its ww-Scientific use). I j
“I knew,” he says, “that this involuntary vibration of the
leg,” caused by nipping a muscle, “ must be communicated ! j
to the floor and thence to the chairs of all present.” What ir|
I for certain know is, that no such involuntary or automatic || |
vibration of a leg freely swinging from the knee would be per* | j !
ceptibly communicated to the floor, and thence to the chair of j n ,
any one present; and that no such repetition or 1 promo- j j
tion ” of it merely, as that indicated by Dr. Tyndall, could | I
possibly produce the etfects he attributes to it. The truth ijj
might seem to be that, as in the case of the wine-glass, a j |
mere relation of co-existence became in the imaginative j j
mind of Dr. Tyndall a relation of cause and effect. As to j
his telling us that when the leg stopped the tremors stopped, j j
to begin again when the leg began, this is not the least j |
inconsistent with such a supposition, particularly if we surmise 11 \
in Dr. Tyndall a little of the laxity of observation natural to j j
a person who has jumped to a theory and sees pretty much j j
what he wants to see in support of it. And had not Dr. j |
Tyndall been so careful to “keep the secret to himself,” it is I |
just possible that all this might have promptly on the spot j |
been made manifest. As it is, we must remain pretty much j j
in the dark as to the whole matter. Knowing little or if
nothing as to the special intensity of tremor to be accounted | j
for, and not very much of the vibrations of Dr. Tyndall’s ) |
“free leg,” we are quite incompetent to judge as to the j j
adequacy of the last, assigned as cause,* to produce as an j I
effect the first. And surely nothing can be much more odd j j
than Dr. Tyndall’s notion, that having, as he thought, dis- j j
covered the sufficient natural cause of phenomena announced j !
as Spiritual, he was entitled to “keep it to himself,” and j j
then go away and publish it ! It amounts in point of fact j j
to this, that though everything else may be investigated, Dr. j j
Tyndall’s investigations must not be; as on the spot, at least j i
on this occasion, he took very good care they should not. | i
Mu. W. Eglinton.—We have received a ship letter from Mr. Eglinton, j j i
written in mid-Atlantic, on his way to the Cape of Q-ood Hope in the I { ]
ss. Balmoral Castle. In the course of the note he says :—“ So far we j j
have had an excellent passage, though we had it very rough crossing the i ( I
Bay of Biscay and on fairly entering the Atlantic. It is now so hot as j j
to almost be unbearable, though we have no sun; it is difficult to breathe, !) j
so dense is the air. We have several officers on board who are going I j I
out to the war, and some of them—having been in India—have related i j i
some such extraordinary manifestations (at least I am sure they are) !) j
which they have seen in the presence of the fakirs. Two of the officers i j |
say they are certain the results were not due to natural means.” J j !
Artistic Ability.—The London correspondent of the Western Morn- ! ( \
ing News (Plymouth), July 29th, says of Madame de Steiger’s pictures, j ]
some of which recently attracted much attention at a soiree of the British j I i
National Association of Spiritualists:—“ Madame de Steiger, who | i
studied under Signor Beluni, of Florence, has long been a resident in ijj
Egypt, and has painted a few striking pictures, chiefly reminiscences of j j
her Egyptian surroundings. They are on private view at her studio in | j
Bedford-gardens, Campden-hill, and some of them are very striking, j j i
notably one entitled, ‘ Athyrtis, the daughter of Sesostris.’ In the same j! !
studio I used to see the Egyptian pictures of the late Mr. MacCullum, j j j
and the splendour of his sunsets haunts me still. The lady, whose j j i
paintings are now on view there, besides possessing great merit of her i! j
own, revives those recollections very pleasantly. Madame de Steiger has j j j
also some excellent portraits. The Egyptian pictures are for exhibi- 1 j i
tion in Manchester.” i ( i
* The tremors, as experienced at the stance before alluded to, were extremely peculiar.
That Mr. Homo may have somehow produced them, is quite possible; that he could do so
with his legs, in Dr. Tyndall’s manner, I do not the least believe. Had any one present
come to me afterwards and said, “ Oh! I was vibrating my free leg all the time, and so
producing, in the simplest way, the tremors that seemed to puzzle you so much,” I must
needs have held him, I don’t say untruthful, but in error, unless he could convince me of
his accuracy by once more effecting with his legs the same precise results—and the question
of precision and identity might in such a case be more or less a nice one to decide—on
which ground I must have held the gentleman injudicious in not speaking out on the spot.
That some sort of tremor, more or less violent, may readily be communicated to a floor by
certain uses of one's legs is, of course, a familiar point of knowledge to every one. Let us,
in the light of this knowledge, accept without criticism, and in its full integrity, the state¬
ment of Dr. Tyndall; it is clearly still quite inconclusive of the point at issue. For
supposing spirits to exist, and to have a whim, as alleged, of certifying their presence by
inducing certain temors in a room—supposing the thing a fact (and, whatever its “seeming
absurdity, to decline to admit it possible is really to set a stupid claim of omniscience)—
would this fact, siyjematural so-called, in the least be invalidated by the other fact, that by
natural agency we could produce v§ry much the same sort of temors ? Only a blockhead
will say so. That natural causes were shown to be adequate to the production of very
similar effects to those alleged due to supernatual, would indeed justify a very strong rational
suspicion that the so-called supernatural, causes were in truth only natural ones deceptively
hid away from us. But the strongest rational suspicion is still some little way short of
proof; and until this suspicion became certainty in the exposure of the modus deceptianis—
no very hopeless matter, one should say, where the thing is merely a deception—no accurate
person would consider that the question was thoroughly and finally disposed of.—P. P. A.
PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA IN AUSTRALIA AND'
ELSEWHERE.
BY FREDERICK SINCLAIR.
I send a few additional instances of spontaneous spiritual
manifestations culled from Australian and other newspapers.
These stories, be it observed, have not been recorded by
Spiritualists, but by ordinary journalists, many—and I might
say most—of whom would most fiercely denounce Spiritualism
should any circumstances demand from them an opinion on
that subject. To the Spiritualist it must be evident that
such, of the journalistic ghost stories as are true are simply
accounts of spiritual manifestations.
A MURDER DISCOVERED BY A DREAM.
About twenty-three or four years ago I lived in the town
of West Maitland, in New South Wales. There lived at the
same time in the said town a man named William Hayes,
commonly called Bill Hayes. This man was discovered to
be a murderer through the occurrence of a dream. A person
was missing, and was suspected to have been murdered by
some person unknown. The police could find no trace either
of the body of the missing man, or of his fate. The
suspicion respecting his fate had nearly died away, when a
person whose name I forget dreamt that he was by the side
of a certain creek, called Wallis’s creek, where he saw a
murder committed ; looking down into what appeared to be
a grave, he saw the corpse of the murdered man buried be¬
tween two sheets of bark. The bark of certain trees in
Australia is taken off in sheets as large as the surface of a
good-sized table, and used for roofing huts and other pur¬
poses. I am not sure whether the dreamer dreamt that he
saw the grave more than once, but I believe he did; but
whether he did or did not, he so pressed his dream on the
attention of the police that they were induced to visit the
spot, where they found the grave, and the body of the
murdered man in it, between two sheets of bark. Bill
Hayes was suspected, arrested, tried, convicted, and
executed for the murder. The circumstances connected with
this crime were well known, and much talked about in the
Maitland district at the time of their occurrence. I will not
affirm positively that this dream was produced by the agency
of a departed spirit, for it may have been produced by the
mind of the murderer operating on a sleeping mesmeric
sensitive ; but I think it more probable that it was produced
by the spirit of the murdered man, or by some other spirit
who wished to have the murderer punished for his crime.
After the execution of Hayes, a skeleton was found walled
up in the fireplace of the house in which the murderer had
lived, and this skeleton was believed to be the remains of a
man to whom Hayes owed £20, and who had mysteriously
disappeared some years previously.
THE BODY OF A SUICIDE SUPPOSED TO HAVE BEEN DISCOVERED BY A DREAM.
I use the word “ supposed,” because it is possible that the
dreamer might have seen the body of the suicide, and then
have pretended that he saw it in a dream. This explanation,
however, is extremely improbable, but I state it for the
benefit of the anti-Spiritualists. Unfortunately I have lost
the date of the year in which the supposed dream occurred,
but I know for certain that it took place within the last
decade. I quote from the Bendigo Advertiser of July 7th,
and I think of the year 1873. The Advertiser says:—
“ The neighbourhood of Back Creek was thrown into a state
of great gloom yesterday afternoon when it became known that
a young man named George Spencer, aged twenty-one, a
brother of the two children whom the gunsmith, Rea, is
alleged to have criminally assaulted, had committed suicide
by hanging himself from a tree, near the Grassy Flat
Reservoir. The facts in connection with the suicide and
with the discovery of the body are very strange. The deceased
was a shopman in the employment of Mr. James Port, who
keeps the Durham Ox hotel and store, at Back Creek, and
up to the time of the proceedings at the City Police-court in
the case alluded to, and the revelations consequent
thereon, appeared in excellent spirits. The investigation
of that case, and the disgrace thereby brought upon
the family, appeared to have exercised a very depressing
effect upon a mind known to be of a susceptible and reflective
cast, and subsequent to the hearing of the case, and
THE SPIRITUALIST.
68
the appearance of his injured sisters before the bench to
give evidence against the man Rea, he seems to have
been greatly affected, and to have fallen into a melancholy
and desponding condition. He continued, however, at his
work, and although the change in his spirits was observable
enough, no one apprehended that what followed would ensue.
He left Mr. Port’s place at about eight o’clock on Wednesday
evening last, ostensibly with the intention of returning on
the following morning as usual. He went, apparently,
straight from the shop to his father’s house, near the ranges
beyond Black Creek, where he resided. Nothing unusual
was observable in his demeanour when he reached home or
subsequently, and he left next morning, at the usual hour,
saying that he was going to work. He did not, however,
return to Port’s. As soon as Mr. Port heard that the
deceased was missed, he concluded that something was
wrong, but the family of Spencer appear to have yet appre¬
hended nothing serious, and thought he might have gone to
Sandhurst to see some friends. Some of the family came
into town, therefore, and made inquiries. No trace of him,
however, was discovered, and nothing being heard of him by
the following morning, search was instituted in every
direction about Black Creek without effect, although con¬
tinued all that day. On Saturday morning, a well-known
character about Sandhurst—Lovett, the chimney sweep—
narrated to several persons a dream which he had had. He
dreamed, he said, that he saw George Spencer hanging from
a sapling close by the quartz rocks known as the “ Two
Sisters,” at the back of the Flora Hill. He described the
apparel which he (Spencer) wore, and his position, with
great exactness, as revealed by the dream. He described
the spot minutely. Greatly disturbed he seemed to be about
this dream, and he appeared restless, and unable to perform
his work in his usual manner. He begged of some one to
go to the place with him, “ and see if there was any truth in
it,” as he was afraid to go there by himself. Little notice
at first was taken of this strange dream, and most of the
people to whom Lovett told it made light of the affair.
Yesterday, however, Lovett after dinner took a nap, and
again the same apparition appeared, he says, to his mind.
Again he dreamed exactly as he had dreamed before, and he
entreated some people to proceed with him to the spot.
Many were out scouring the bush at this time—some scores
of persons indeed—and a few volunteers offered then to go
with Lovett to the Two Sisters,” at the Flora Hill. There,
sure enough, they found the body of George Spencer hanging
by a hayband from a tree, and exactly in the manner and in
the same clothes as described by Lovett. The police were
communicated with without delay, and constable Bradley, of
Quarry-hill, was speedily on the spot and cut the body down.
Life was extinct. The unfortunate deceased was quite stiff
and cold ; he appeared to have been dead for a long period,
perhaps for some days. He was removed to his own resi¬
dence. The deceased was greatly respected by everybody
with whom he came into contact, and Mr. Port speaks in
the highest terms of him. He was unmarried. In con¬
nection with this tragic affair, it may be mentioned that the
life of the deceased had been threatened by John Rea, son of
Rea, the gunsmith, on account of the proceedings instituted
by the Spencer family against the latter.”
A STRANGE GHOST.
The Macleay Herald of September 6th, 1869, says that a
young woman, about nineteen years of age, named Mary
Craig, a servant at Mr. Litchfield’s, Port Macquarie, stated
that on a Saturday night, when walking by St. Thomas’s
Church, a man dressed in old-fashioned garments, the coat
being black, and reaching to his heels, with no hat on his
head, suddenly appeared at her side and walked along with
her. She spoke to him several times, but he did not answer,
and when she reached the parsonage gate she opened it and
went in, requesting the man to go in too, if he wished, as
she wanted to shut the gate. He walked close up to her,
and answered in alow tone, at the same time waving his
hands, that he could not go in there. This frightened the
young woman somewhat, and, hastily closing the gate, she
quickly made for the parsonage. The figure she represents
as being so tall that she had to look up to it. She thought
it was some man endeavouring to frighten her; but though
Aua. 9, 1878.
she could distinctly see his features, she could not recognise
| him as a resident visitor at Port Macquarie. His steps
I are described as being perfectly noiseless. Very little, we
| understand, was said about the matter that night, but on
| Monday night, when passing the same spot in company
| with the Rev. F. R. Kemp’s servant, the young woman saw
! the same figure, and exclaiming, “ Oh! there he is,” she
| ran away. Her companion felt nervous, and pulling her
hat over her eyes she walked steadily on, not looking on
| either side, calling to the other not to run away from her.
Some short distance farther on she found Mary Craig lying
| on the grass in a fainting fit. As soon as she recovered
| they proceeded down town together, and described what had
| occurred. Senior-constable Bennett, Constable Thing, Mr.
| Wright Hamson (the Thempsey mail contractor), and two
j other men, accompanied by the two young women, went back
to the church. When there, Constable Thing walked round
| the building to see if any person was hiding there, Mary Craig
at the same time talking and laughing with her companions.
! When Constable Thing returned he had no sooner remarked
that he saw no one, than the girl said, There he is along-
| side of you, Mr. Thing.” She then tottered and fell in a
I swoon. Constable Thing, as may be imagined, very quickly
| looked round to see the strange visitor, but though he strained
| his organs of vision to the utmost, he could discern no one,
I and said so. The rest of the company did the same, but
| could not see the supposed man. Here the matter rests—
| the young woman Craig declaring that she was not deceived.
| and no one else having seen the grim personage. Mary
| Craig has always been known as a robust and strong-minded
| young woman, not easily frightened and of a jocose dis-
| position. This shock has so detrimentally acted upon her
system that she has been ill ever since, and has been
recommended by her doctor to seek change of air and scene.
I She states that she never knew anyone like the figure she
| saw. She would know him were she to meet him alive
until the day of her death, or could recognise a photograph
of him. Some two years ago, we are informed, the young
| woman was bitten by a black snake on the arm, the scar of
| which is visible to the present day ; and it is the opinion of
some that it is the effects of that still operating in her
| system—as snakes are just beginning to leave their dormant
state. Hampson was so frightened at the state of the girl,
and not being able to discern anything himself, that he
| states he could scarcely sleep that night, and will not forget
the occurrence as long as he lives.
A TROUBLESOME GHOST.
The next ghost story which I have to narrate appeared two
or three years ago in the Shoalkaven News, from which it was
I quoted in the papers of the Colony rather extensively. The
editor of the Skoalkaven News states :—
u From time to time we have received startling intelli¬
gence from Bamerang anent a ghost, or rather ghosts, that
| have been seen by many persons, some of whom are persons
not likely to be carried away by idle fancies. Mr. Robert
| Williams, who has but recently gone to reside at Bamerang,
| has been terrified, his faithful watch-dog driven mad, and
| his whole household routed and thrown into the greatest
:! consternation by the appearance of an apparition. On Tues-
| day night Williams’ family were startled by what seemed to
i be a man walking up and down the verandah with heavy-
| nailed boots. The dog, who appears to have heard the noise,
| and it would seem also saw the cause of it, was rushing about
in a most frantic manner, and would every now and then
! make a desperate spring at the intruder, but finally gave up
| the contest in sullen silence. The ghost, in defiance of all
1 locks, bolts, and bars,’ entered the house, and Williams
I then saw the figure of a man, dressed apparently in the garb
! of a bushman. It went to the bed where Mr. and Mrs.
I Williams were lying, and pulled the bedclothes off the bed,
| and lay down beside Williams, who, however, could feel
nothing when he put his hand out to touch it. After a
! while the apparition went to where thare was a crosscut saw
standing, which it sounded several times as if beating time
| to music. After keeping Williams and his family in a
terrified state for some time, his ghostship departed.
I Williams avers that he has heard and seen this strange
i visitor several times since his location at Bamerang, and
Aua. 9, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
69
challenges all unbelievers to go and stop at his house and
judge for themselves. Other persons, as we have before
stated, have reported they have seen similar apparitions in the
locality, and one gentleman, well-known in this district,
who resided at one time at Bamerang, saw, or will swear
that he saw, a low-set man, with a manilla hat on, dressed
in moleskin trousers, and a blue guernsey shirt, carrying an
axe over his shoulder, enter his bedroom, and when the witness
referred to attempted to ascertain who he was and what he
wanted, found that the supposed man was only a shadow.
.It is asserted by the very old hands of the district that one
or two sawyers had been found murdered in the locality many
years ago.”
The annals of Spiritualism contain many stories analagous
to this, which like the present story admit of explanation on
the spiritual hypothesis.
TUB GHOST OF A MUSICAL PAWNBROKER.
The next story I have to notice relates to the doings of a
musical ghost, which are reported by the Bendigo Advertiser,
on the authority of a trustworthy witness. The report states
that:—
u A gentleman well known in Sandhurst as a dealer in
furniture, whom we will call Lamb, at whose establishment
many an article has been 4 popped? by needy persons,
recently sold a piano that he had received as a pledge, to an
equally well-known speculator, whom we will call Smith.
It so happened that within a week after the piano had been
disposed of, Lamb departed this life rather suddenly, and
was duly buried. Smith had the piano removed to his
parlour. One night recently he had retired to bed, and was
wrapped in peaceful slumber, when, at about two o’clock
in the morning, he was suddenly awakened by loud and
continued playing on his piano, which he had previously
locked securely. He rushed downstairs for the purpose of
reprimanding the supposed individual, when to his great
terror and amazement he observed, as he says, the ghost of
his departed 1 uncle ’ walk direct and firmly from the piano
right through the front door. Being horribly frightened,
he lost no time in retracing his steps upstairs. His better
half was not awakened by the first performance on the
piano, which consisted of a selection from Handel’s ‘ Mes- ! j
siah; ’ but Smith had not long been in bed before the strains j)
were resumed, the selection this time being from Mozart’s j
‘ Gloria ’—the 4 Twelfth Mass,’ in which there are several j
deep and striking notes. Smith heard all this, and after !)
mentally abusing the piano he resolutely took refuge in the j
arms of Morpheus. His wife was awakened by the music, | <
and immediately screamed out and endeavoured to arouse j
her husband, but such seemed to be an impossibility, and I
she herself resolved to go downstairs and ascertain the j
cause of this unusual musical entertainment. On reaching i
the room her bewilderment was greater than that of Smith, j
she having observed the same identical man, and under
precisely the same circumstances. In a frantic state of
excitement she rushed upstairs; she succeeded in arousing
Smith, and informed him of what she had seen. Next
morning he determined to get rid of the awful instrument.
He succeeded in doing so ; but whether the same perform¬
ance has been repeated at the house of the individual to
whom he sold it or not he is not in a position to say.”
SPONTANEOUS SPIRIT RAPPING.
I have neglected my usual custom of marking the date of
the occurrence on this extract, but the event occurred only
a few years back. The stoiy is evidently a description of
a spiritual manifestation, and is quoted from the South
Australian Chronicle :■—
u Sir,—I wish to correct a statement which appeared in
your issue of the 17th instant, concerning a knocking at the
doors of my house. I, for one, have never believed in ghost
stories ; but I will give you a true account of what I, with
my family, witnessed and heard. On Saturday evening,
June 8, at 6 o’clock, there came a rap at the front door, but
on going to the door nobody was there. It came again
afterwards at the back door—a rap, rap, rap—but no one
was to be seen. It then came to the front and passage
windows. I then determined to try and catch the boys
who, I thought, were causing the disturbance, and got my
family to remain at the bottom of the passage while I
searched every hiding-place. During my search the
|| knocking continued at the back door. This rapping con-
i| tinued until half-past ten o’clock. It was so loud that it
11 was heard across the road, and by ten o’clock my house and
[’ | the next one were surrounded by my neighbours and family,
11 but no one was to be seen as the cause of the mischief. We
|| heard no more after half-past ten o’clock till Sunday
11 morning, as we were going to have breakfast. At half-past
> t seven o’clock there came two gentle taps at the front door ;
j | I answered the door, but could see no one. Directly after-
| wards it came rap, rap, rap at the back door. This was
j heard by my neighbours, who ran out to see if it was my
j door. We then searched the roof and every part of the
j premises, but nobody was to be seen, and whilst we
I stood talking at the back the rapping continued at the
i front door. My little boy said the door half opened
I in his hand, and there were three heavy raps before
| our eyes. My next door neighbour stood under the
j verandah watching the outside of my door, and he
j saw the door shake with the knocks. The back door
I was beaten severely, and I said—£ Open the door and
j see if it will be better;’ but the rapping still continued,
I and about ten o’clock it came to the inner doors, and re-
| mained inside the house all day. There are six inner doors,
| and each one had three heavy raps. At one o’clock the
| knocking was very severe, and I had eight adult witnesses
| in the house who saw the doors shake with the rapping,
j This continued until half-past four o’clock. On Monday,
j the 10th, it returned again about eight o’clock, and at half-
j past ten o’clock a man who had been lodging with me was
I in the house, and the rapping was so loud that he ran out
| quite frightened, and was ill next day in consequence. I
| know not what is the meaning of all this, but I have given
| you a full and clear account of what occurred, and I only
| hope we shall not be troubled with it again. As to my
j child, which died on the following Tuesday night, I am not
jj. going to suppose that the knocking had anything to do
| with my child’s death. I may also mention that a friend
| of mine, who considered the whole affair complete humbug,
II was in my house on Monday, and when the rapping com¬
menced on the partition, he started, and inquired if that
was the noise. On being told that it was, he rushed out of
the house, vowing that he would not live a day in it, and
was ill all night from the fright. “Philip Howell.
“ Adelaide, June 17.”
If there be no such thing as spirits, how do all these
tales originate, and how curiously do they all correspond
with and resemble the stories which appear in the records
of Spiritualism, as descriptive of phenomena which occur
at spiritual seances? On the spiritual hypothesis such
stories admit of explanation; on any other hypothesis
they are mysterious and inexplicable.
Surrey Hills, Sydney, New South Wales, June 19th, 1878.
The Hydesville Manifestations in 1848. — An authorised
description of the outbreak of the phenomena of modern Spiritualism
in the Fox family at Hydesville, N.Y., in 1848, was published by Mr.
Robert Dale Owen, in his Footfalls on the Boundary of Another
World (Triibner and Co.). A longer and equally trustworthy account,
)| accompanied by quotations from original documents, was printed in
(j E. W. Capron’s Modern Spiritualism: its Facts and Fanaticisms (Bela
jl Marsh, Boston, 1855). But the earliest official account was contained
/| in a pamphlet published in 1848 by Mr. E. E. Lewis, at Canandaigua,
(j New York. Can anybody tell us the title of that pamphlet, and is a
icopy of it still in existence ?
| The Matrimonial Affairs of Mr. Perkins, of Boston.—Does the
j following paragraph from last Saturday’s Echo refer to “ Mr. Hardy-
Perkins,’’ if such a name may be coined?—“ The spirits are progressing.
They have taken to match-making, and may probably soon interfere in
politics. ‘ Perkins—Carleton, no cards,’ has recently been announced
in Boston, and we believe the triumph of the medium is complete.
Mr. Perkins lost his wife, and has brought himself to believe that he
communicates with her spirit through a Miss Carleton, a medium. Mr.
! Perkins is probably an eligible parti, and his wife, good soul, still looks
after him. She, through her medium, directed him to invite Miss
| Carleton to dine with him, which he did, and then his deceased wife,
II speaking through her medium, desired him to marry Miss Carleton,
saying, wise soul, f The world will think you insane ; but never falter,
j we will protect you.’ Mr. Perkins was obedient, and agreed, even to
the day named, through the medium, by his doubtless lamented spouse.
Now, was Mr. Perkins insane ? Unkind people hint that Mr. Perkins
did not require any admonition, while others say that Miss Carleton
I was a clever actress.”
70
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 9, 1878,
^orresponuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned;
copies should he kept hy the writers. Preference is given to letters which are not anonymous.']
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN THE HOUSE OE THE REV. E. PHELPS, D.D.
Sir,—The information you ask for in The Spiritualist of August 2nd,
p. 53, about the spontaneous spiritual manifestations in the family of
Dr. Phelps, may be found at length in Spicer’s Sights and Sounds, 1853,
pp. 101 to 110 ; and in Capron’s Modern Spiritualism: its Facts and
Fanaticisms, 1855, pp. 132 to 171.
Sargent’s Planchette, 1874, gives a short but rather important notice
of them on pp. 5 and 49. They are also mentioned, but without
details, in The Occult Sciences, edited by Elihu Rich, 1855, p. 199 ; in
Hoveitt’s History of The Supernatural, 1863, Yol. II., p. 175; and in
Crowell’s Primitive Christianity, 1874, Yol. I., p. 516.
W. Whitear.
High-street, Hornsey, August 5th, 1878.
Sir,—You ask in The Spiritualist about the Phelps manifestations.
There is a chapter of forty pages, describing them with facsimiles of
characters, in Modern Spiritualism: its Facts and Fanaticisms,” by
Capron, 1855.” C. E. Isham.
Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Sir,—In reference to your inquiry in The Spiritualist, August 2nd,
for an account of the occurrences at the house of Rev. Dr. Phelps, you
will find one at page 101 of Sights and Sounds, by Henry Spicer;
Bosworth, Regent-street, London, 1853.
lam informed that the book is “out of print.” From its genial
and amusing style, and its very full and fair presentment of such
facts as had at that time been witnessed, it still remains one of the
best popular introductions to Spiritualism.
Would it not be well to have a new edition? It will—apart from
its merits—always be interesting in the history of Spiritualism as the
first book of any importance published in England on the modern
phenomenal phases of the subject. The Divine Revelations of
Davis, published by Chapman in 1847, can hardly be taken as an
exception.
The original account of the manifestations at the house of the Rev.
Mr. Phelps was, I believe, given in E. W. Capron’s Modern Spirit¬
ualism : its Facts and Fanaticisms. This account, which is fuller
than that in Sights and Sounds, is copied by Dr. Hare, and will be
found at page 333, fifth edition, of his Spiritualism Scientifically
Demonstrated. R. H.
August 4th, 1878.  
IVORY RINGS.
Sir,—I feel certain that all lovers of scientific exactitude in the
study of Spiritualism must feel grateful to you for your suggestion that
a section be made of the ivory ring which, I understand, has been
taken to Leipzig, with a possible view to microscopical examination.
I have not seen the specimen in question ; yet, for the sake of those
numerous readers who share with me this ignorance, it might be
advisable to place on record now some of the conditions which may
occur if a transverse section is made of the ring.
What is an £< ivory ” ring ? It may be of three descriptions—
animal, vegetable, or even of the compound mineral (?) nature, which
an ingenious manufacturer has applied to the formation of such objects
as billiard balls.
I will not attempt to describe this last compound, of which the
manufacture is a patent, but merely remark that in the transverse or
broken sections I have seen the fracture is crystalline. For the same
reason I shall not say anything on the histological characters presented
by the vegetable ivory, as the description belongs to the duties of the
botanist. But with regard to the animal ivory, I deem it necessary
to call your attention to the fact that each several description of
animal ivory, whether derived from the elephant, the walrus, the
manoti, or the hippopotamus, shows a clear and definable section. It is
possible to discover from the slightest shred or splinter, which may be
broken off from a section of ivory (and, for the purpose of examination
by transmitted light, the narrower the section the better), not merely
the order of mammals from which the shred of ivory has been derived,
but even the species.
I cannot indicate the peculiar “ engine-turned ” pattern which is
exhibited by some of the sections of elephantine ivory without a
diagram, and I must refer all readers to Professor Owen’s Odonto¬
graphy for further particulars.
While the pattern of the elephant’s ivory is perfectly unique, and
easily distinguishable from the different patterns which are shown by
the hippopotamus or other ivory, it must not be forgotten that the
characters of the longitudinal sections are quite different from those
of the transverse ones. Such rings as curtain rings, when turned from
an elephant’s tusk, are naturally cut in a transverse direction to the
axis of the tooth, and would consequently show along their round
surface examples of every curve which would be taken by the trans¬
verse or the longitudinal sections of ivory.
I would therefore respectfully suggest to those who have the care of
this interesting specimen that a preliminary microscopical examination
be made to enable us to realise the fact of what sort of ivory the ring
is made.
I have, of course, accepted as a provisional hypothesis the statement
that one of the rings was really composed of ivory, and not of bone,
which latter often bears a high polish; and I hope that the
microscopical- botanists of the country of Unger will tell us of what
sort of wood the other ring was composed.
In a case like the present, which appears to be an important piece
of evidence in favour of the passage of ‘‘form through form,” or, as
some term it, “ matter through matter,’’ it behoves scientific Spirit¬
ualists to be very careful that the original conditions of the problem
should be stated, as it is only on a foundation of exactly defined fact
that we shall be able to appreciate the true nature of the forces which
operate in the production of results which may be induced by the
“four dimensional” things, the nature of which we are all endeavour¬
ing to ascertain.
The fact that the present experiment has been made with substances
which show variability' of texture, such as wood and ivory, renders it
of an entirely different nature to the effects which have been produced
by welded iron rings. One of these, made in July or August, 1875,
at Middlesboro’-on-Tees, showed externally no trace whatever of
the secret joins. When rung on the ground, no sign of join was
visible, and it bore the examination of several skilled iron-hammerers
with glasses on. Yet it was really hammered in two pieces, and there
were consequently two solutions of continuity on the circumference.
This ring cost £1 12s., which was a fair price for an iron ring only
eight inches across.
I may state that at seance after stance some of us have seen two
ordinary curtain rings, composed of differently coloured pieces of wood,
placed in the cabinet, and on all occasions they have been left
untouched.
Such constant failure in the presence of witnesses of every shade of
thought, leads the cautious speculator to ponder on the causes which
have led to the unparalleled success which has crowned the experi¬
ments of Herren Gillis and Christian Reimers with a reward for
which so many others have waited with patience,
C. Carter Blake.
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
j Sir,—I send you a few lines to inform you of my whereabouts and
I purposes in this country, and of the general condition of Spiritualism
! in Australia.
You will see from my address that I am now in America. I landed
in San Francisco from Australia a fortnight to-day, on a lecturing tour
and for the benefit of my health. It had been my intention for years
to visit this country as soon as a suitable opportunity offered. My
health having broken down some time ago, and believing that a
thorough change of climate and scene would do more than anything
else to complete its restoration, I left the colonies in which I had spent
fifteen years, for America, and ultimately, England, my native country.
I spent a fortnight and gave ten lectures in Hew Zealand on my way.
There are a good many Spiritualists, and still more Freethinkers, in
that colony, though they are considerably scattered, and do not unite
and fraternise as much as would be for their individual pleasure and
collective good, and for the interests of society generally. Mr. C.
Bright, who has taken to lecturing as a profession, is in that colony,
where he finds ample scope for his energies, and is doing good work.
The movement in Australia is steadily gaining ground, in spite of the
manifold opposition it has had to encounter, and has a very hopeful
future awaiting it. It has been my lot to do perhaps the largest share
of the public pioneering of Spiritualism in that country, inasmuch as I
was for several years the only lecturer devoted entirely to the work.
And I suppose my experience has been pretty much the same as that of
other pioneers of new and unpopular movements—one of hard work,
considerable suffering, and inadequate remuneration. The path of a
preacher of the Gospel, with fashion, respectability, numbers, and
wealth on his side, is much smoother and pleasanter than that of a
lecturer on a system which has but few supporters—none in some
places—and which from its very nature provokes prejudice and opposi¬
tion in many quarters. And yet, rugged as my path has been during
the seven years that have elapsed since I lost my church through
embracing Spiritualism, I have been a happier man than I was during
the ten years I spent as a minister of the Gospel, because I have felt
conscious of standing on a firmer foundation, and teaching a more
rational and ennobling class of truths. What success may have
attended my labours in the spiritual vineyard is not for me to say,
but I trust I have done some little good in correcting erroneous im¬
pressions, removing prejudice, stimulating a spirit of inquiry, and
generally commending Spiritualism to the favourable consideration of
intelligent and thoughtful minds ; and whilst I regret that I have not
achieved greater results, I shall ever feel thankful that I was privileged
to do something for so noble a cause in that far-off land.
A marked change has come over the press and the pulpit generally
of Australia in their attitude towards Spiritualism. The pulpit used
to thunder against it as a thing of Satanic origin, and to warn the
faithful against touching it. But its wrath is nearly spent; the enemy
has boldly entered the sanctuary; and the clergy, as a rule, are for the
present silent—apparently considering whether other measures can and
ought to be devised to expel him, or whether it is to their interest to
try to come to terms with him, and endeavour to convert him into a
friend and ally. The press for years heaped ridicule and abuse upon
it, suppressed everything that told in its favour, and eagerly seized and
magnified aught that was calculated to damage it in popular estimation.
But it finds that the thing lives and grows in spite of all its efforts to
destroy it; and now in many places it is either silent, or compelled to
admit that the movement can no longer be treated as formerly, but is
fairly entitled to a hearing; and, as a consequence, the public, who are
so much influenced by the press and pulpit, are also veering round, and
manifesting considerable interest in it. Its literature is being exten¬
sively read; its mediums are called for, but, unfortunately, there are
scarcely any public ones to respond ; its public advocates are listened
to with attention and respect, and the number of converts to its facts
and principles is daily increasing. Mrs. E. H. Britten was doing
i exceedingly well when I left, and so was Mr. Thos. Walker, the
Aug. 9, 1878.
71
THE SPIRITUALIST.
excellent trance speaker. Dr. Peebles did a fine work during liis two
visits. The Harbinger of Light, conducted by Mr. Terry, of Melbourne,
has an increasing circulation, and is doing much good ; and there are
many other friends of the cause in the different colonies who are in a
quieter way doing all they can to emancipate society from the bondage
of error and superstition, and elevate it to the higher planes which
Spiritualism unfolds. There is still, however, much to be done, and
many of the professed friends of the cause are very indifferent to its
welfare.
I intend remaining in California a few weeks, and then working my
way towards the Eastern States, I hope to be able to visit England
next summer, and to have the pleasure of seeing you, and of speaking
on some of the liberal platforms of the country. I will only add that I
still take The Spiritualist, and cannot but admire the ability with
which it is conducted, and the variety and character of the subjects
discussed in its columns. John Txerman.
319, Kearney-street, San Francisco, California,
XJ, S. America, July 4, 1878,
VISIONS IN MIRRORS AND CRYSTALS. j !
Sir,—By way of supplement to Dr. Kenneth Mackenzie’s interesting j j
and instructive paper, entitled “ Visions in Mirrors and Crystals,” and j j
in reply to the request for further experimental information on the j j
same subject, in your paper of the 5th April last, by Mr. Hunter, I j(
take this opportunity to give my experience in the matter. It is j !
rather meagre, albeit eight years ago I published the first and only I j
book which has ever appeared devoted to this subject; it was entitled i j
The History and Mystery of the Magic Crystal. In it I sought, but in
vain, to popularise this fascinating and somewhat easily attainable i j
phase of psychical development—conscious clairvoyance. j j
Many persons of both sexes beyond doubt can obtain the power who i i
are not appreciably sensitive to any other form of occult influence. | i
The only way to ascertain individual capacity for development is to i I
“try.” Various and many are the forms and shapes of the mirrors | |
and crystals used to develope the faculty ; the crystals should always | |
be of quartz ; the shape is immaterial, but they are usually round or j j
oval balls, though flat pieces answer just as well. This substance does | j
unquestionably possess the power of attracting and retaining psychic or H
organic influences, especially occult human emanations, and when not i j
in use it should be kept in the dark and safe from promiscuous /
handling. This rule equally applies to all things used for these j j
purposes. H
Now to mirrors. The black ovids, known as the “ Bhatteh Mirrors,” ] j
are of course the right things, but even the small sizes of these cost not j |
less than five pounds, so are out of the reach of ordinarily circumstanced i j
experimentalists. After a variety of trials, involving time, money, and i |
patience, I found a good and efficient substitute in what are known as j j
“medallion glasses,” covered for reflective purposes on the convex side j j
with some opaque black coating; this altogether does not involve an n
outlay of more than a few shillings. The concave basin, after being i|
suitably mesmerised, forms a ready means for the formation of these i 11
marvellous pictures, which appear rather on than in or through them, i |
The influence of daylight, and the position in which the mirrors are ! j |
held, seem to make no difference where the faculty for seeing exists in j
the sensitive. The influence of ceremonies and prayers seems to me j j
useful only so far as it serves to impress the mind, and to concentrate i (I
the attention to the matter in hand, no matter how imposing or fervent | (|
it may be. So long as it is sincere and earnest, nothing else is really | i
requisite for success but time and patience. j j
The truth of the facts is now well-nigh beyond dispute, for many | j j
of all classes and grades unhesitatingly affirm them to be demonstrated j 11
realities. They include landscapes, emblematical groups, events i j
transpiring by land and sea, whether in the snowy fastnesses of the i 1
far north or on the burning sands of southern climes. The forms !
of deceased friends flit across them in visions of the past, present, j I
or future. Figures of men and animals are seen in motion, also I j
carriages, the waving of foliage, ships and steamboats arriving or ! |
departing. All these have the distinctness and vivid colouring of j
nature, and afford a high intellectual feast. j (
One of the Six Hundred. |
Bath, July 29th, 1878. I /
women’s freedom.
Sir,—Observing in The Spiritualist that an effort is being made by
certain Spiritualists in Great Britain to support those who are trying to
introduce a bill into Parliament to enable woman to hold property in
her own right, I take this opportunity of sending by mail a copy of our
own law on this important subject.
Our worthy lawyer and statesman, the Honble. Geo. Higinbotham,
introduced the measure here some years since, and, I am glad to say, |
succeeded in passing it through Parliament. Of course, croakers prog- I
nosticated all sorts of evil as the result; but we have found no evil; an
immense amount of good has been the result. When a woman marries,, j
why should she give up all her rights? Many a scoundrel gets her j
property, and leaves her in poverty.
I am glad to tell you that that noble woman, Mrs. Emma Hardinge
Britten, is drawing crowded houses at the Opera House, Melbourne,
leaving scarcely standing room. Every Sunday night there are nearly
four thousand persons present. Edwin Gill. j
Ohingford, Avioa-street, South Yarra, Australia,
June 11th, 1878.  
DISINTERESTED spiritualism.
Sir,—In an article in The Spiritualist of the 19th July, Mr. Atkinson I
advances the opinion that “pure and disinterested Spiritualism” should
be distinguished from “ the mere belief in spirits of the dead and a future
for ourselves.” Perhaps it should; but as a thing is best known by its
essential attributes I would ask Mr. Atkinson to define Spiritualism, if
he can, without introducing the ideas referred to above. Surely the
“ endeavour to render more humane the human race around us ” is not
Spiritualism. Robbed of the “mere belief in spirits, &c.,” Spiritualism
may be what Mr. Atkinson likes—perhaps only a kind of transcendental
materialism, or the “ enthusiasm of humanity j’’—but for my part I find
nothing left in it but a metaphysical hypothesis.
The word “disinterested” as applied to “ pure Spiritualism ” gives
us the key-note to the writer’s thought. To care about a future life is
egotism when not mere moonshine and affectation. As such it should
be condemned. Well, if the Creator intended virtue to be disinterested,
why does he give us so many motives to be virtuous ? Again, how can
we really care for the “ human race,” of which we form an integral part,
without caring for ourselves ? Zchokke’s idea that “ disinterested virtue
would be an impossibility if we possessed an indubitable certainty ’’ of a
future life may be true; but then it is an impossibility now, for we have
the certainty of future rewards and punishments here. Let me cite Mr.
Atkinson’s favourite author. Bacon says:—“ Beware how in making
the portraiture thou breakest the pattern : for divinity maketh the love
of ourselves the pattern,* the love of our neighbours but the portraiture.”
G. F. G.
THE ENGLISH £ SOUVENIRS ” OF MR. A. J. RIKO.
Sir,— I send you a few lines about my visit to the English
brethren, and perhaps you may deem them worthy a place in your
columns.
I need not enter into particulars of the seances I attended at Mr.
Williams’s and Mr. Herne’s ; their manifestations are generally known
to English investigators. One interesting point was that at a stance at
Mr. Williams’s, where other strong mediums were present, and where
the manifestations were extraordinary, a spirit addressed me in perfect
Dutch, and answered my questions intelligently. That spirit mani-
fested for the first time, I was told, and nobody there could understand
him but myself.
I chiefly wish to speak about Dr. Mack and the well-known Cook
family. The first proved himself to be a powerful healer and a kind-
hearted man ; he very much benefited my wife’s health during our stay
in London by his treatment. Some time ago I submitted paper mes¬
merised by Dr. Mack to the examination of a sensitive medium at
The Hague. In my absence the medium pointed out Dr. Mack’s paper
accurately amongst other sheets of the same shape and kind; his
paper had been marked by me in a way not to be detected by any
other person but myself. This is a conclusive proof (I obtained it
more than once) that there is something in that paper.
In company with my countryman, Mr. Tiedeman Martheze, of
Brighton, I witnessed some remarkable manifestations through Mr.
Rita’s mediumship, including a materialisation while the medium was
held in the circle.
The most remarkable of my experiences were those I had in the
bosom of Mr. Cook’s family. I very highly appreciate the favour of
my introduction into that quiet home circle. Many decided proofs I
obtained that the medium, Miss Kate Cook, a young, innocent, lovely
girl, and the spirit, Lillie Gordon, are two separate individuals. Lillie
invited my wife and myself into the cabinet; she allowed us to touch
the medium; she spoke while I stood before her at a distance of not
more than one foot, and let me touch her hand, arms, hair ; she wrote
a letter on my own paper, and with my own pencil, under my eyes,
in perfect light; she gave me a lock of her hair (much thinner and
fairer than the medium’s) and a piece of her veil. She brought out
the medium, and while Miss Kate stood awake and talked with us the
spirit Lillie did likewise. Short it was, but wonderful. I certainly
never will forget the Cook family, nor Miss Kate, nor the celestial
visitant Lillie.
I think that Mr. Charles Blackburn merits every true Spiritualist’s
thanks for the care he takes to develop the wonderful gift in that
interesting circle, and I think the family act very wisely in making it
difficult for strangers to come to their seances. Not every one can
appreciate and understand them.
I made acquaintance with many new brethren, and my souvenirs
are of the most agreeable kind. A. J. Riko.
The Hague, Holland, August, 1878.
Psychography.—Psychography: a Treatise on one of the Objective
Forms of Psychic or Spiritual Phenomena. By “ M.A. (Oxon).” Lon¬
don : W. H. Harrison. This is essentially a presentation of facts.
“ I have desired,” says the writer, “ to present no theory for acceptance.”
But he adds, “ I have endeavoured to elucidate one among many of the
facts which testify to the existence of a soul in man, and to its inde¬
pendent action beyond his physical body ; an earnest of his survival and
independent life when released by death from its earthly prison-house.”
“Psychography” is the production of writing abnormally—that is to
say, without the ordinary use of a physical hand, and (apparently)
without the control of a mind in a physical body. The writer, who
seems to be a cultivated thinker and sober-minded inquirer, appears to
know perfectly well how this will sound to persons who have not paid
serious attention to the subject; but he is not deterred. He quietly sets
forth his evidence, and challenges a judgment. We hardly think it will
overcome the ordinary prejudgment that the thing is impossible, and
that it must be a trick; but the evidence is very strong, and it will pro¬
bably have weight with persons who are humble enough to think that it is
just possible they do not know everything in the universe.—The Truth-
seeker.
* “ Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself ’’—here the -words “ as thyself ” express the
pattern,—G. F. Gh
72
Aug. 9, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
DR. B. W. RICHARDSON ON SPIRITUALISM.
BY R. M. THEOBALD, M.A., M.R.C.S., EKG.
In some sections of his work on Health and Life, Dr.
Richardson shows incapability of getting beyond the beaten
track of orthodox physiology and pathology. In discussing
Visions and Hallucinations, he gives the well-known story
of Nicolai, the Berlin bookseller, and then adds, with a cool
audacity of assertion which is simply amazing,—“ In the
whole history of spiritual manifestations, so called, there
is nothing that equals in marvel this experience of Nicolai.”
Dr. Richardson need not say anything at all about Spirit¬
ualism unless he likes; but if he does mention it, he
should exercise a little candour and common sense, and
not prejudge a great and difficult question by reckless
assertion, which is at once unscientific and unjudicial.
There are several accounts, in the records of spiritual
manifestations, of living persons and inanimate things
being conveyed considerable distances without any visible
mode of transit. We do not say that these are true, but
we do say that they are marvels of quite a different kind
to anything recorded in the category of spectral or optical
illusions. Nicolai’s spectral illusions were phenomena of
the kind best known to the reporter himself—i.e., they were
purely subjective, and if he had professed them to be any¬
thing else the explanation of imposture, so much delighted
in by scientific investigators, would have been easy and
immediate. The objective phenomena with which the
records of Spiritualism abound are marvels of a totally
different order, and to reduce them to the level of Nicolai’s
spectra is to prejudge the whole case. As Dr. Richardson
cannot see this, we distinctly refuse to accept his guidance
on any such matters, and can only conclude that he is
about as fit to discuss Spiritualism as a cook is to discuss
astronomy. And in this respect he is but a sample of the
scientific class to which he belongs. In supersensual, and
especially supernatural matters, their discourses are, as a
rule, just about as worth listening to as the average meta¬
physics of a stump orator who murders grammar and
drops or mal-accentuates his h’s.
We feel bound to point out these class vulgarisms which
deface Dr. Richardson’s book—the plush livery which he
wears in common with the rest of his class. But setting
these aside, the book is full of interesting and valuable
facts on which we need not always reason as he does, but
may use and apply according to the point of view we prefer.
—The Nonconformist, July 31st, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM IN MANCHESTER.
According to printed announcements, an open-air meeting in connec¬
tion with Spiritualism was held in Albert-square, Manchester, at eleven
o’clock last Sunday. About that time a number of Spiritualists
arrived on the scene, some from Liverpool, Hyde, Macclesfield, and the
surrounding district, with the laudable intention of commencing a
mental small gun and artillery practice upon the inhabitants of Man¬
chester, for the purpose of arousing them to think and act for themselves
in matters spiritual as well as physical. But, however anxious the
various speakers were to scatter seed by the wayside, the rain came
down in torrents, and put an end to the regular meeting.. A meeting
was then held within the sheltering gates of the Town Hall, and an
unpleasant morning was made pleasant by an impromptu eowvmaza'owe,
during which many extraordinary experiences were related of trance
and vision. The friends then made way to an adjoining hotel to
dinner.
The conference of the Lancashire District Committee of Spiritualists
was held at the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-street. The weather
having cleared up, there was a fair attendance of Spiritualists to listen
to the inevitable dry details of societary proceedings. Mr. Lament, of
Liverpool, occupied the chair. Mr. Parsons, of Rochdale, Mr. Fitton,
of Manchester, Messrs. Johnston and Hartley, of Hyde, and Mr.
Coates, of Liverpool, occupied the platform. The Chairman made a
short but telling address upon the principal features of the movement,
then called upon Mr. Johnston to read the quarterly report, which was
a lengthy document. It set forth that the committee had been able, by
efficient and judicious organisation, to cause the delivery in the district
of ninety-nine lectures, at the nominal cost of 5s. 3d. each—a great
amount of work, with very little expenditure of money—weak and
struggling local societies having been furnished with able speakers,
trance and normal. “ Chamber meetings ” had been given, and seances
held, which could not be done if the mediums had not been sent by the
committee.
The committee are getting more help in money and speakers, and are
doing greater work every quarter. Amongst the objects contemplated
by the Lancashire District Committee, is a memorial mission to com¬
memorate the thirtieth anniversary of modern Spiritualism. For this
I purpose it is intended to raise a guarantee fund of £50, and the entire
|( j Lancashire district is to be “missioned” in October and November
|) i with the best lectures to be obtained in the country. Mrs. Batie, the
I i | inspirational medium, will be specially engaged for two months as one
i \ j of the speakers, and at the conclusion of her labours will be presented
j J i with a purse and testimonial. Lancashire Spiritualists will take this
| ( | means of acknowledging her faithful services previously to her depar-
i ( j ture for America. Mrs. Batie, better known as Miss Longbottom, has
I) | been a.good worker, frequently labouring under great difficulties, never
i ( j looking for a present reward. The collections are in every instance to
| j | go to the testimonial fund.
|) | The working committee were re-elected : and when Mr. Hartley, the
H I iC Guarantee Fund and corresponding secretary ” was re-elected for the
i) j next twelve months, some of the audience rose to their feet, and the place
j / ! re-echoed with deafening applause. Mr. Hartley possesses the entire con-
j ( | fidence of the district; although fully engaged in his own business
! | | daily, he has unceasingly paid prompt attention to all the duties
j j j devolving upon him as secretary, and for no other remuneration save
I ( I that his heart is in the work.
I j The evening meeting was held at 6.30. By some oversight this
I ( I meeting had not been advertised; notwithstanding, there was a good
j ( | audience, composed principally of Spiritualists. Mr. Fitton occupied
j ) | the chair. After some good congregational singing of hymns from the
| ( I Spiritual Songster, Mr. Coates lectured. In the course of his remarks
j | i he said that he did not undertake to define what was “ spirit ” and what
i j was “matter; ” whether “spirit” was the outcome of or evolved from
j ( j “ matter,” or whether “ matter” was the crude covering of “ spirit.” He
i | i might possibly have felt—
j ( !. “ That spirit, as spirit, was wholly nnscrutable,
! ( i And nothing at all could be known of matter,”
I j were it not for his acquaintance with Spiritualism. Here he knew that
| ( | spirit and matter were distinctive terms, which never could be con-
I ) | founded, or made synonymous, as clearly demonstrated by certain
| j I phenomena occurring in our midst to-day. He narrated some experi-
I ences in mesmerism, clairvoyance, and Spiritualism. In conclusion, he
|) I said it was clear to him where that which was called “ matter ”
| (the body) was left behind, that which was called “spirit” existed,
| j | free and independent of the “ matter ” and manifested intelligence,
| ) | which no “matter,” no matter how organised or combined, was ever
| ( | known to possess.
II | Mr. Johnston, trance medium of Hyde, then arose under control and
! addressed the meeting. He advocated free and full inquiry into things
( | spiritual and physical. He thanked God for materialism and
j | secularism, as liberating noble minds from the trammels of theology ;
| j and he spoke highly of the utility of a free platform and a free press
( | in this country. He considered the doctrine of eternal punishment to
! be derogatory to God, degrading to humanity, and he believed it to be
( | one of the means of driving intellectual and thoughtful men out of the
( | Church. He then besought attention to the claims of Spiritualism.
| I Both addresses were well received.
i Mr. Colville will lecture next Sunday in the same place at 2.30 p.m.
I i and 6.30 p.m.
j ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
( j H. (Carlsbad, Bohemia).—By this time Dr. Slade has nearly reached
) j Melbourne, and his present intention is to go thence to California. It
) j would benefit, the true interests of science if he could be induced to
( ! return to Europe. The actions of two ignorant young men have driven
( | him from England.
| i Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
I SPIRITUALISM.
I By P. P. Alexander, M.A. ;
| Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
) j This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
) | * observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
( i of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
j | “ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
I I The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
| ! Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
i A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
( j Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
i poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
I | excellence.
f | The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
| | By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
i Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
! Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
j “Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
I Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
I STUDIEN UBER DIE GIESTERWELT,
I By the Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
) I Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
![ GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
[ j The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
THE SPIRITUALIST
Aug. 9, 1878.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.G.'
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way coimected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men wKb investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey,
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens’ these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DA.YIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ .
The Thinker. „ V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. .
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology . . ■
Morning Lectures . . . . .
d.
15 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
5 0
7 0
2 0
3 6
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 6
7 0
6 0
7 6
7 6
5 0
5 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spibituahst Newspaper , .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 0
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts .16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind’; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes: or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . .' . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
iii
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Oloth; red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination has been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of of priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
-startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth,
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Charter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. It. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Keens, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Charter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
• John King.
Charter. IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Charter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Charter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Charter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—^Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Charter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Punphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Charter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and iievd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Charter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Charter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt-
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections tci
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Charter XVIII.—Furtlier Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aacl the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage-paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, XI 10s.
London: W. fit* Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Price five shillings. Crown Svo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCH OGRAPHY,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes. '
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics,
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidense of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshcad, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E > idence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Conteasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.R., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyid,
M D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar;
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.C; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial Svo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religions aspects of Spiritualism (given throng ’•
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakot—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peokcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurghm. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
ot Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Yon Yay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D .—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Woithington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—.
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,.
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors'or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age."
13
THE SPIRITC ALIST.
ufa mw ERA.
H' TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE- ]
AgVTDRE.' PEATI1 BT NAT^UAL JI^KAnA
| 0Rt| BEAC0NSFIELD justly. "stated ^ tlie other
diiTOhat. “'-the health of the people IS refllly thejjoundation j
upon which ail their-happiness'and {S0w6r as a State depend.”'
For the most practical mpdp of] preventiog desease and prematiure j
death seffa large Illustrafe'9. Slieet git'en 'with each‘bottle of i
FISO’S FiJtUIT SALT. The iftformation is inyalhable* Ah a 1
IlF.ALTlf-CtlVmQ, ltEMtESHI-lirG,:GO.GLIFIGV ahd‘:iNVI(5b- :
K.vyFlG ;B EVEBA£rI£, or as"a, gentle .laxative a,nd>tpjvjc Jh ithe
v A-fous form's of ihdlgestion;'hse END'S .FlitriT>'SA'ET'(prepared'‘
frhm sound ripe friiit). -It is,sthe'rbest-ipi'Sv.eiitivh.aii.d jC#icoLfor I
llilipusnessftSick • hjeadache, -Skin 'Eruptions’, ’ impure • Blood, i
ffitftt’ples d|t,4he'Faee,'Grdaindss^-EeVers;'Eeveri^iiie|^ F^eri^h |
Coldst Mdffllil I^epressian,'AVarit of Appetite,’Sourness, of'.the 1
SthnndclBpghifs'tipatioii, Toniiting, Thirst, &c.,~ahd to reniote’the j
efmcts 'bf^enhrs of.eating and drinking.
NO oF FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many :
4y;< rsdM-varigd medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth .century
n{ne, perhaps), has .advanced so rapidly into publicnotice
adfENO’S 'FItUITSALT. A. GomparatiyelJ^ unknown
s^me, year, or so. ,ago,\this ^preparation, which is made
L'; fronrTijie soundifruit,-is nQw.rhet with-'in evpry quarter
' of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is .
. thatJtit'Kbeps.'the'blond, pure,andAthe ^system’iierfebtly ,
cighy, and Jims takes away the groundwork, of. mala-
- rihB| r'drSeases, soocemmon'to' towns and districts which
t ■ ar^ll-dratoed.- .There is little doubt but that the time
• jud®oventually.coine when Jevers and diseases resulting
ft'-m'-hoisoned -blood :will.s,be. considered as- offences
agamsl? the/Weil-being- of^comnmnitiescat large; .but we
■,, wmA in all probability, be some.,while yet before' it
■ sljau. have arrived at such a pitiJli of sanitary.perfection. .
k .J&anwbile, we; cant1°l; withhold ■ a ■yvelcome to any
. speeMC whichmay prove a means of preserving or restor- i
■ ., iajsthgalth. - The.simpler the better, so ,long;only as it is
' e^pfltal." ENO’S. vFitUIT,; SALT;dias1 been -found an
-eSa)Ient.CQrrecti>veJtO pie digestiYe/orgahs,. and in .the'j
coKmies, in jlndia,' apdiinj South America,- has a Jajggly .
incrSasing’sam.- It is-better-by .far than “nips,” and i
jk t.-catr^uffigtithe Gsod Tomplars-ra numerous community all
over, the world—it is'recognised not'only as. a refresliing ■
- J}i|^lsb,as'a‘strirtula'ting European J/diY, Nov. 1,
• * :#HAT-'EVERYBODY WANTS TO =
. JKiiife :,;kN0Y?:. !
IgjffHiMSKiwiKg ■ SALT;—A; Gbiitleman, writ
-'Y^fe;e'x;Ha%..uM''E-NOlSjiiFR;0JT ''SALT-nig
rites- ;—
gjit'and
mur^Thg^my headaches; &e., .have deftme, and^tbis after
.. supaing for above twenty years. . You'shbuldj.make ..this
factjteli’known.;”p r - '■*".'%' ■ i A gu
PNO’S’' FRUIT ‘ SALT. — A’ Lady - writes.: —^
wl-i' “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to .abt properly'for
at least three months before I eoihmenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished tne or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that'I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHATt EVERY TRAY ELLIN G TR UNKt^AND HOUSEHOLD
IN' THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—a BOTTLE OF
E
NO’S^FRUIT SALT,
AS .A'.
• wmm GENERAL,L4.X4TIVB AND TOJflC . .
: . 'jN rHE-VAPiOJJs'lpEM's 'O^'INDISESTipN.''• -
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
fruit. :
The .Frffiijflalt Is one of Nature's own products. I-t oontains all
tUCAkldh®PtskUne,:cbnstituen'ts of 'Ripe Fruit -fe .a vpdftahle,
agreeable; arm ;S'mpie form, and. is in every.re’s’peCf'as harmless
as the iiiices'offi'uits from which it is Obtained.
—In Pimpled, and!'Blotches ■on.-the'Face,,Sallowness of the Ckin,
rtnd-Depressibn of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendation's is its resemblahcebo 'fruit in the natural way
fn which it relieves the sv’stem of effete or poisonous matter,-
WhiCh, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fniif isi that it can be always at hand when required.' Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or. foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
iK'iyous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise. - . . .. ; , 
. ENO’S ERjilT . SALT’
is particularly valuable; 'NO traveller should leave home-without
a supplyv for by its use - the'most dangerous forms lof lFeversf;
Blood Potsons; -&c., aid Prevedted and .Cured. It is,; irn truth', a
Family MediOine Glieat in the simplest yet unost potent term.
Instead’of-being-iowerihg to the system; this:-preparatibnis, in
tbe liighest’ degree; invigorating.' Its effect in relieving thirst,
givhigtohe to the system; add'aiding digestion is most striking. >
TjiNO-’S . F.RUIT SALT : (onh of Naiure’s. own.
J-i .. prbducts)beeps.the blood pure, and is thus oti itself .one oL
ttie most valuable means, of keeping, the bicod ’ free, from
Yr • "fevers > and blood poisons, liver, jcomplamts, &c., ,ever.
discovered. , As a meaust of preserving' and restoring.
. . n^ljth; it is unequalled; and at is, moreover, a pleasant,'
. refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
‘ fad careful-, observation of .its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that ..if its great value in keeping
- . tlie body .healthy were universally known, not ahouse-
■ •»». hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
. J. C- Eno.
ENO’^FRUIT SALT.-—j“ I am very much, pleased
> wfth your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
f eff^a.Qy'byitS.haYing’eiitireiy .cured me-of indigestion.”—
TV^Wobp. Ju^., Tud.pr-rpad, ,Canterbury..
ORjHY. OF; NOTICE.—PALPITATION'.’ OF.
Yt THE HE ART, caused by LiyerDerangementand In'diges-
' tioilf frequent!y’-called (or mistaken for) Hea'rt'Disease
*,t “On-April MIpurchaBedabottle of your FRUITS ALT,
• not’feeling very well at the time, arid it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when Ihoughtit. Tliad suffered more
crless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
* « Dutjyery badly during (he last few years. The leashthing
y.wouTd produce it during..-the day, and at night my sleep ■
.jiras very muchdi@tUrbed;-',-S.trange to.say, after thp Rrst
gffjm, of FRUIT-' SALT, the. dangerous, annoying;, and
* jjwuty disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
'p-fieftsed, and have not since r eturned. Out Of gratitude for
p«tlie<b.eneflt wliieh I have received, I have recommended it
s:£to?i^t.my friends,b<$th in London and Yarmouth; At the
A-'sa'me’tame, I feel-'it a duty to state the above facts, of
, ^wulOn'you can make whateyer use youblease. — I ’am,
' ' ^de.a4',sir,'y'oufsl-esppctfully, . ' “.W. B. Beckett.”
* Aug.bOfdSTf^—10, York-sq^are, Commercial-road, London, E;.
/Y AUTlpN.Examine each Bottle and* see the
V-/, Capsmeis.warked “E^.O’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
youbave'beejt.imposed oh by a.fworthleSs.imitation. TRADE
Md-Rlt—ESSjOa-MtuiT Salt, Fjsuit Saline, or Fruit Powder. .
‘-f So!pby,^ll Chemists. . Price 2s;-9d.and4s, 6d. £
Sg<’e&c/mt br Parw-PHARMACIB- DE BERAL. 14, RUE
. .. JiA PAIX, :■ “ ' Ml
i t«-Just .Publislied,:.
Price Seven Shillings ah(TSixpence',"post free, Crown 8yo, richly gilt,
gjj' T 'H K ’ UAZ Y '
, A ND . P Rtis;i^ ft.M A QI $1 I N G^S, ,
. By ^illiaji-n. iiAiiaisoN.
An Elegant arid Amusing. Gift-Book of-Poetical and Prose
» Writing^ Grave and. Gay.'.- _ / -r
Tlie gilt-uevice On the c&er, designed by FlSreiice, Ciilxton Mid the'I
• • •• - -.- - AriiliOi-. i,*' :r ' ,
Jk-Atb i/i . b,.. '«T ,. .'Contents. t>t- J- Jts.,55.’— --- -
. ‘ PAiiT l:^Mis<$Zfmeovs Ptie/jis and Prose sa
L The iLay of thd?L'azy Author—2! The Song of the Newspaper \
f Editor.—Sr The'tSonl of-the: Pawnbroker.—4. The CSstte.^S.^The *
iLay.of) the,’Fat,‘Mau.-t-6,#The Poetry of Science.—y.-btow Hadji;
Ai Shacahac was Phoiogi'aph’ed. (Aletter from Iladji Al'Shacabac, ;
' a. gerifleman i who .visited London on business connected, with ai
.Turkish Loan, to 'AH Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief,of the Col-;
lege of Howling'Dervishesl»t Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the 1
BroSd-Bririimed Hat.—9. St. Bride's Bay?—10.' The’. Lay of the •
; Market' Gardener.T-llA o Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven. |
L; -^-13. ^Materialistic-Religion.—13.:. The Lay oft the, Rb6tographer.Tr-
jll.^How to DoublO-the ^Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The i
SOng or-the Motherin-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—Vi. “Poor Old
Jori ! ’W18., The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
'20. A bove SOng.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the liimes.”—23. The ’
' Angel bf Silence;
- Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke- i
stone.'—26. The" Rifle'Corps.—-2!r. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman." ;
Opinions of j the Press.
From The Morning Post, jjj
The Morning Post, which-strongly recommends the book in,a
treyiew nearly a' Column long,'says:—“Comic literature Which
'Honestly deserves'the epithet seems to be rapidly-beooming-a
.thing.of tHe past; consequently any writer who, like Mr! Harrison,
'exhibifs'ageriiiine vein ; of humour, deserves the praise of all who ■■
are ijbt.too stu'pid,tb‘enjoy'_an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
Te'stficts'herself oftly to suph lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
•sdmebf his poems-tqiich on the' deepest and most sacre'd feelings j
of oui‘;eommon humanity.-;. . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
,of-his adyeuturestamongst the magician^ of Whitechapel is quite
’one! of.the funniest; things-that has been published; for years. ...
.The-book contains, quite .icriough to ensure it, a welcome-from
whifch its,.tasteful appearance will,not detract.” .The 'Morning
Post skys of TheWomlejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it-saysthat the rhymes are pitched in “ soiridthing
like the same, key ” as*'TVie Bon Gaultier Ballads or The 'Biglow
Papers, “ with an'appreciably successful result.” t
■. ** From The Court Journal.
t “All. are of mariced, ability.. . . Occasionally we find ye’rse of
great beauty,'showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’1’'A ;
• From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). gBoth the.verses and the short essays are really
funny, ;and in come of the latter there is a vein of jgenial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun; T!i& Laif of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, -if- rathei; seyere, and so. is.The Lom of, the Mqcebearers;
hut onebftlie mosf laughable bits'is the Turk’s'account of how he
went tobe photographed.” ' ' • ...... t , ,
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably, good verse...'. Some of the metrical
legends remind us. of the. wild chants that used to he sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen,years-ugo. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where- to plant hi’s fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific.mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read-a pleasant volume magnifleently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most..entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all Ul-natufed.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronologj’) a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal qf Photography.
"u 'The DaxjpLdys'include Vri'any admirable pieces, some of yvbich
arein-yerse and;others.in prose, some scientific, bihers social, but
all of ih'eni excellent. >. > The Lazy Aosj’s will make excellent and
amusingTeadjhg for an qccasionalsp’ai'e.half-hbur... .-They con^
tain nothingunrefineh-br iiibad taste.’b , „
1 : ‘Frp'm. TheDublin Ur.ivefsily Magazine, ,
' “ How HadjiAl GhaTcahaq, an amiable.Turk^ was photographed,
is well ddrie. ,‘1. BburidYri a coveirbr semewtiat powerful.dbsign.”
From: The Photographic News.- ■' : '-
'“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other, scierttiflc literature, has
cofisiderable facility of versification, and; deals, in pleasant arid
humorofis mood, with'piany-scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
* In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
-there is a gobd deal of broad humour and satiric power, with'a due
' foundation of sofid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle,.
" “ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabae was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjefcts should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.. . . The
poems are all-characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
.... The work-is very elaborately bound in eldth and gilt.V. . A
gorgeous dfesign upon the cover'. . . .If our readers','vvisli to en¬
courage laziness"tliey have 'a most deserving object in-a very
clever and Versatile member qf the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.-
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy. Lay si Mr,
William.H. Harrison provides-a gift-book elegarit.in its?appear¬
ance and entertaining in its; contents... . The author, is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and, amuses, all while offending
norie.’ll J
From TheWestern Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen'of Mr. W. H. I Jar risen, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial pre'ss, arid
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Majiv of the humorous .poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legpnds.. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some , of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy Of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and tliere pervade'the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept-
able.to most readers.”
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
. “ The finest thing in the book is ‘HowIIadji AI Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to bpr not too ex¬
tensive, comic literature. The story.is one of which extracts'
would not give anadequrite idea ; it is intensely-humorous,...
' Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in TM Lazy Lays,”
Aug.4$, .1878,
/ From The Bristol Daily Post, r
. “ A curious collection of verses and prose’ essays of unequal
• merit. ... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mi’s. Ilemans’s or L E. L.’s’'productfbns.”_
From The Kensington News...
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Maqk Twain, or aqy
’of thgse merry souls'WhbdO quite as ihuch good in’their day and
--generation as the authors of the most serious works.- The Lays
, are alWay^; original?1 sometimes serious, generally comic,“but
rievenyulgar.” . .
''Trom.IFhe Malvern News
' Y’ltas in‘itsfeiflSii'iv9bi,k'rof'itslif^priginal; ^arid"a'"c&sr“df its
, author’saiiirid.’ It is a,work of' great power and beKuty; full 5f
liVely.: iii^glriings. afidi5 bold CriutSpi^en thoughts, abounding, in
*Tetiflernefs anabatlmsI'spai'kiing-with-Twt arid humour'; and one
that maybe req,d many times over.;. The get-up . of the book is
' very handsome.” ” *
From The Folkestone Nows.
“A number of clever sketches and poems), among the latter
•being a series of papers onfXtio&'The W.obtylejaw Ballads, ythich,
appeared in the 'columns of ; this paper'a.-short time ago,
and which created .suqh a \ at the'-time,.’’ [W.B; An
irate member, of the Town-. Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor, and. Corporation of Folkestone Jo. the. burleMuesj/n the
I “ Wobblejaw Lsattads,” but the members qssemMed laughed at the
i mattes, and proceeded to the next SiisihUsL Th'e' Maj/or said- that he
. did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, ishound in.cloth richly-gilt; and'h'as an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.’:
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Brunch Office of the'
Cpm'fMaffsf Newspaper, London,’W:.Ci*.!.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA, '
OR . . ; ,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,: *
By the late Wm.- Gregory, M.p., F.R.S.E., ’Professor of
Cheniistryat Edinburgh | Univepsity, S..
;Dedicated byAthe Author by Eerinissiori to His Grace'
! .the Duke of Argyll. i
The second arid slightlj-, re^visgd and. abridged'edition, for
. its .quality-and. size,the, cheapest larg'ei work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or. 5s. 6d. popt:f^ee;’or five copies
post free for; 2ls. Copies may also be had bbiind in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8§f'6cL‘ per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs. Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject >in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep .Caused by .Silent Will; and.at a
'Distarice—Attraction Towards the:Operator—Effect iri the Waking
State of Gommarids Given in the Sleep. ;
: CHARTER IIT--:.— Sympathy— Community of Sensations; o
■ Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage -^- Sympathy ■with the Bystanders—Thought-
‘Roading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathiesr—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without.,
the-Eyes—Vision'of Near Objects; through Opaque Bodies tat a
Distance—Sympatliy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pfe-.
dieted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the' Set‘r-«,.
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—ytriking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision.
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness. in Mes-
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in ..
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The,Sub¬
ject must beStudied.
CHAPTER VII;—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s JExtatics—Visions of the S liritual
■World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
'Effects ofTouchingthe Head in the Sleep—Variety .in the Pherioirf-
,ena—Suggestion—Sympatliy—There are Cases in which' these Act;
and o.thers m which they, do not Act—Phenomena Deserihed—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesirierism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of . Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on.lt. . „ • • f. .■
CHAPTER IX :-r Action of Magnets, Crystals. etc;; bn the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical'with' the
Mesmeric Fluid of.Mesmer, or with the Influe,rice which Causes tile
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Waters-Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiolbgical, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witcheratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced.to Natural-Causes—Apparitions — Secorid Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds,
i CHAPTER X ;—An Exjilanatibn of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odylje) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is. Probably the Medium of. Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects, of.Odyle—Somriam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylip Emanations—Ody lie/Traces followed* up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic tftid Witclictaft^The Magic Crystal, arid Mirror/etc.;'Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal. Sympathy—Lueid Pfirieiitibu 'of
the Future..’ S ",
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesriierism;by,Men.of Scienc
—Due Limits of .Scientific Caution—Practical. Hints—Conditions, of
Succes&in Experiments—Cause ■ of Failure—Mesmerism'a Serious
Thing—Cautions to.be Student—Opposition to be: Expected. ■.,
CHAPTER XIIPhenomena Observed' in the Conscious w
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion, on Persons in an Impressible
State-rMr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without 'Suggestion—
Oases—-Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases —Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, .-Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s’Method —Cases—The Magic Crystal. Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptiah Magic.: i .. ....
: CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the'Mesmeric Sleep—Casfes—
Eight out: of Nine Persons-Recently Tried .by the Author Thrown'
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep.Prodriced without'tfie Knowledge of th
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathi'c Clairvoyance hrthe Sleep—Oases—Percfeptiori of Time'
—Cases; Sir J. Fr'ariklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retro vision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Case^—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Cleyrg-
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other, Gaset.
CHARTER XVTranqe—Extasis — Cases.—Spontaneous Mes-j
meric Rhenometta—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVICurative Agency of Mestnerism—Concluding ■
Remarks, and Summary.
•London: W.C. Sgirituaiist Igewppaper Branch Office^ . ,
Printed tor' the Proprietor,' by BEVBRifictB & Co., at the
Holbprh Printing Works, FnlTwood?n Rentg, High Holborfi
-in the Parish of St, AndVew-abo.verpar aud. St. George
the Martyr, London, arid published’ by E, W Allen, Aye'
•Maria-larie, Loudon, E.C.
