HaGisTERED as A Newspaper.
SK® 03^ ®^YdS0I<0^lC®I< ^dl5<]sfC5<.
|MHk Spntwaltsm m (&xtut §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 10x0, Seventh-street.
No. 267.—(Vol. XL—No. 14.) LONDON: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontents.
Reviews -.—Words of Warning—The Court of Divorce in
the Golden Land 157
William Lilly, the Astrologer. By Charles Carleton
Massey 158
A New Spiritualistic Organisation in Australia—Report
of the Provisional Committee of the Victorian Spirit¬
ualistic Association  ... ... 159
Tbe Responsibility of Mediums. By Eugene Crowell, M.D. 160
At Home with Fire   ... 161
The Baron and Baroness von Vay 162
The Phenomenon of the Materialisation of a Spirit Closely
Observed. By the Rev. Thomas Colley, late Chaplain
to H.M.S. Malabar 162
Seances in Paris  '  163
Mesmerism. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S 163
Dr. Slade's Movements   164
A Haunted House   164
Correspondence:—A Seance with Mr. Fletcher—Spirit¬
ualism and Mesmerism in Dublin—Materialisation of
Spirit Heads, No. 12, Photography in the Dark—
Problems—Provincial Notes—The Astrological Look¬
out 164
The Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism ... 167
Spiritual Phenomena in Australia 168
Paragraphs:—Mr. J. M. Peebles, 158; Mr. Tyerman, 161 ;
Mr. Morse's Appointments 163
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics qf
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
Jl oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the "Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay s the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Air. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer¬
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Ilonywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fahyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. Wilham Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places: —
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Oapucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Malionaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio,_ Via del
Corso. Naples: Bri'ish Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICA.L THEORIES, set
forth, in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
c., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
ussel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.C.
Agenda for October, 1877.
Friday, 6th.—Seance Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 6th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 pm.
Tuesday, 9fA.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.ra.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Thursday, Wth.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Soiree Committee, at 6 p.m.
Friday, 12th.—Library Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 16th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
Friday, 16th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 20th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
Thursday, 25th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 26th.—Seance Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
,, „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 27th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m,
SEANCES FOR ENQUIRERS.
A series of three Seances for Enquirers will be held at 38,
Great Russell-street, on Wednesdays, October 10th, 17th, and
24th. Enquirers may have tickets free, on application to the
Secretary. Admission to Members, Is. each.
SOIREES.
The Soirees will recommence in November. It is proposed
to invite friends to give short addresses on some subject directly
connected with Spiritualism, in order to give these meetings
a more definite reference to Spiritualism than they have
hitherto had.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &e , apply
to—
 H. E, FRANCES, Hon. Sbo.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S^ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
VV and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Ca-diff.
MR. J. J. MORSE’S BENEFIT SOIREE
Will be held at the
CAVENDISH ROOMS, MORTIMER STREET,
REGENT STREET, LONDON,
On Wednesday Evening, October 17th.
Tickets, 2s. 6d., with tea; and Is. after half-past seven.
They can be had of Mrs. Maltby, 16, Southampton-street,
Fitzroy-square, and at the doors on the evening of the
meeting.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
As exhibited at the Oaxton eelebration), is a self-inking one
and can easily bo worked by a child of ten. Its work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saving you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW
TO PBINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of printing
materials, specimens of type, <5cc., &c., post free 13 stamps.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co., Patentees.
Show Rooms:—18, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Price from £3 to jG9 10s.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S,,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by ;
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
THE FOURTH SESSION
Will commence on Thursday, 1st November, 1877, at 8.30 p.m.,
when the President will deliver his usual Opening Address.
All particulars may be obtained on application to Francis K.
Mnnton, Honorary Secretary. Residence, Willesden, N.W.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
ViOE-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton. Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeiand, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton
Rooms—53, Sigdon Road, Dalston Lane, Dalston,
London, E.
(Close to Hackney Downs Station, Great Eastern Railway,
and five minutes’ walk of Hackney Station, North London
Railway.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism ; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism. •
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The tef Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have’the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines aro
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
ormation of circles and conduct ot seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can he obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.: quartetly 3s. All subscriptions payahlein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the Duke’s Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
HE SOUL, AND HOW IT FOUND ME ;
being a narrative of phenomena connected with the
production of England and Islam, by Edward Maitland.
Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C,
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSOROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 5, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Eitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.'W.
Gregory,Mrs.Makdougall,21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 82, Warwick-square, S.W'.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Massey, O. C„ Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. D., Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.T).,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Win. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. w. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent's-park, N.W.
Pearce, Kichard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa. Church-end, Finchley, N,
Str'awhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redclifle-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vaJe, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. E. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Lcuehtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Banca Fenzi, Florence, Italy,
err Constantin Delhaz, Singerstrasse No. 7, Vienna, Italy.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammohton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
. U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer-
. sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clintou-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson,Esq.,M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstanes;Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre, Etterbeck, prussejs,
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue flu Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloueester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Hondre, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr, A. E. Ne.hrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W, Day, Esq,, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvn. 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
AUied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez. 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
pRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
vX will be published as soon as Mrs. W eldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier. Holman Hunt. Thomas
Woolnor, Van Der Heyde, R. 8. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Garter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Oh. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. ALLEN, H, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, YERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.  
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
9 engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—16, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
9 delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces, (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired)
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.C.
ESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
71, Pocock-street, Blackfriars-road, London.
MR. J. HAWKINS, 11, Mount Pleasanf,
East-road, City-road, Magnetic Healer, open to en¬
gagements to start seances and to develope mediums.
T>SYCHOMETRY.—For delineation of cha-
JL racter and ioformation on development consult (if by
letter enclose photo and 10s. 6d. as fee) Mr. J. Skipsey, Ash-
ington Colliery, near Morpeth, Northumberland.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 61., paper cover, ‘‘ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. f. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trtjbner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
X >OEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
_b_ LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the snirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : COLBY and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
fubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE MAGIC STAFF, by‘A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author ; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.   
"OEVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JL\i logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1 st
of every month. Price, 5 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.- Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
1VFR. J. COATES, the mesmerist, is about to
IvJL visit Ireland, calling at Belfast, Dublin, Cork, and
intermediate places en route. He will undertake the treat¬
ment of patients directly or under medical supervision ; also
give sittings for the development of clairvoyance. Persons
desiring a visit will please wriie him at his address, 12, Lime-
streef, Liverpool.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRIT-
UALISTS.
IVTUSICAL BOX.—A fine Musical Box,
-1 vJL eight-aired, and in good condition, to be RAFFLED
FOR. Thirty-two shares at balf-a-crown each. A few shares
still to he disposed of. Application to be made at once to the
Secretary. 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300/or Is., post free, or 500/br Is. 6c?., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLI0 MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will bo
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
HE FOOD THAT WE LIVE ON. In-
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price i s. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerableability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomena], Histosical, and Beligious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
jt l|&}mjir tl tJ nnh xtf ^pijjt(urfi$nt*
Volume Eleven. Number Foup^teejm.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
^ebteb^.
Words of Warning, in Verse and Prose, addressed to
u Societies for Organising Charitable Relief and Sup¬
pressing Mendicity.’’ By S. C. Hall, F.S.A. London :
Hamilton, Adams, and Co.
The object of this little book, by that respected and
venerable worker in the cause of Spiritualism, Mr. S. C.
Hall, is clearly set forth by the author in the following
paragraphs :—
Many believe—as I believe—that “societies for organising charitable
relief and repressing mendicity ” are pernicious in their influence, and
evil in their results ; that they dry up the natural channel of the heart,
check or destroy sympathy for suffering, stand in the stead of personal
inquiry, by substituting official “ inquiry,” make indifference to woe ex¬
cusable if not obligatory, encourage belief in the universality of crime
as the concomitant of distress, and the invariable necessity for over¬
caution as a duty ; while striving to absorb all organised and established
charities into a vortex, (inviting “ to avail themselves of the societies’
assistance, clergymen, district visitors, the heads of philanthropic in¬
stitutions, and all who are engaged in charitable work ”) ; in short, do
incalculable mischief as “ set off’’ against a little good ; it is therefore
I have been impelled to write the work I respectfully submit to sub¬
scribers to these societies and to the public.
The view I take has been so well expressed by the Rev. William
Pepperell, in the Standard, that I adopt it:—
“1. It separates the exercise of charity from the sphere of religious
and moral influence, and the softening and improving effects of personal,
kindly, sympathy as between the giver and receiver, and hardens the
whole work of benevolence into a narrow groove of materialistic con¬
siderations, destroying all sense of real individual responsibility on
account of social relations and duties.
“ 2. It places charity towards the poor on a fundamentally erroneous
basis, by insisting that every applicant for relief shall undergo a strict
investigation as to antecedents and character, instituted and carried on
by its own agents, and that relief be administered or hot according to
their decision.
“ 3. The Charity Organisation Society has adopted a system which
invites the clergy and all ministers of religion, and local charities and
benevolent individuals in connection with it, or otherwise, in effect, to
suspend their functions of local usefulness, to place their consciences in
its hands, and to assist none of their poor without the information it (the
Organisation Society) professes to be able to impart after its professional
investigation.”
In this book Mr. S. C. Hall deals with a very difficult
problem. Some years ago we heard Mr. Gladstone state,
that after due inquiry it had been discovered that the ma¬
jority of street beggars were professional impostors; charity
organisations, we presume, try to rid society of these
habitual swindlers, who are supported by the donations of
the well-intentioned. Mr. Hall argues that it is better to
pay some undeserving persons than that others in real dis¬
tress should go without. But, assuming the former to out¬
number the latter in the proportion of two to one, it seems
to be an easy kind of religion, governed by a doubtful kind
of intelligence, which encourages giving halfpence to two
swindlers out of three applicants in order that “ the natural
channel of the heart ” may not be dried up.
u An argument,” said a great thinker, u is never answered
at all until it is answered at its best,” and Mr. S. 0. Hall’s
non-attention to this principle prevents us from at present
coming to any conclusions upon the subject upon which he
writes, except that it would be well to have both sides of
this most important religious problem brought out by cor¬
respondence in these pages. The author not only does not
present the arguments and facts of the other side of the
question at their best, but he does not present them at all;
moreover, he keeps back the address of the Charity Organisa¬
tion Society, thus placing an impediment in the way of those
who, like ourselves, thought of writing to them for further
information. In presenting a minor portion of the position
of his opponents at its worst, he points how, in Woolwich,
a branch of the Charity Organisation Society had in 1875-6
an income of £112 14s., and expended only £10 11s. 6d. in
OCTOBER Sth, 1877.
charity, whilst all the rest went in salaries, printing,
and so on, and Mr. Hall says that this is “a specimen of
the whole ” of the branch societies, “larger or smaller.”
He further mentions that the parent society has a great
| number of these branches ; “ in the suburbs of the metro¬
polis it has no fewer than thirty-seven.” If all these
numerous branches for “ charity organisation ” spend £10 out
of every £11 received on other than charitable purposes, the
figures are appalling. Still there is an absence of details. In
| building up any new social machinery there must be an
| outlay at first in the formation of the necessary mechanism,
and the absence in Mr. Hall’s .pamphlet of any possible
| explanation by the other side, leaves an irresistible impres-
I sion on the mind of the critical reader that he is listening to
I strong ex parte statements, from which no safe conclusions
| can be drawn until the other side has been heard. A few
individual cases of hardship, apparently due to the action of
the organisation, are given, but the particular does not prove
the general, and in the working of the best and most useful
descriptions of social machinery, there must be failures in
| exceptional instances. Whether the cases brought forward
by Mr. Hall in his little book belong to this class of excep-
| tional cases, there is no evidence to show.
If any society could rid our streets of the majority of
| professional impostors, they would do good to society; but if
I it made the sufferings of the deserving poor greater still, the
organisation would but be a cover for stinginess, and for in¬
flicting injury upon the helpless. Mr. Hall says that among
| the subscribers to the society are “ several who hold
| prominent rank in the noble and numerous army of philan¬
thropists,” and who are “foremost leaders in the best and
i truest charities of the kingdom.” One would like to know
| why these still support the institution, notwithstanding the
| deterrent cases put forward by Mr. Hall; they must have
| some reason which cannot be gleaned from Mr. Hall’s book.
The question seems to divide itself into two parts : First,
| the ridding of the streets of professional beggars who swallow
up alms intended either for the benefit of poor recipients, or
I for the “ prevention of the drying up of the natural channels
| of the hearts ” of the donors. Secondly, the best method of
treatment of the deserving poor. If organised action keeps
] these questions quite distinct from each other, the diffi-
| culties of the case are simplified, because every living soul
| would be glad that the impostors had their deserts. Then,
| as to the deserving poor, much is to be said in favour of Mr.
| Hall’s method, and much in favour of organised action when
| individual charity is not strong enough to relieve all the
| suffering.
We think that Mr. Hall’s book unintentionally makes out
| a strong case against the Church of England, for if most of
| its pastors in London did their duty, the poor in every dis-
| trict would be well tended. The late Rev. W. Pennefather,
of Mildmay Park, by the aid of his flock, kept the poor of a
| large district well tended, body and soul; he and the mem-
| hers of his church, old and young, were so well up in the
j troubles and deserts of the poor of the whole district that
| any impostor had a poor chance with them, and every indi-
I vidual who desired to act personally in the distribution of
i charitable aid had work to do. It is clear that if the clergy
| all over London worked similarly, both in fulfilment of the
| doctrines they teach and in return for the vast sums in the
| shape of income, lands, and vested interests they hold at
the public cost, fewer deserving poor would be found in our
| streets, and impostors would find it not so easy to dupe the
! benevolent. In short, we think the evil now left to be dealt
| with chiefly by the laity, to be one largely created by the
| neglect of duty of a proportion of the ministers of all deno-
I minations, but more especially by a proportion of those who
i have most culture, income, and leisure—that is to say, those
158
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 5, 1877.
who hold as sinecures their positions in the Church of Eng- j
land. | |
Mr. S. C. Hall’s book is written with kindly and chari- ! j
table intentions, and we hope that both sides of the question
will be brought into view in these pages by correspondents
versed in the details, for the best method of dealing with
“ God’s poor ” is, in the highest sense of the word, a spirit¬
ualistic question. The book will be useful to those who wish
to learn the merits of one side of the problem. It contains
some admirable specimens of wood-engraving.
The Court of Divorce in the Golden Land. London: j
Remington and Co. 1877.
This is an anonymous pamphlet, in which the writer, who
signs himself u Iota,” appears to possess all the charac¬
teristics of a street preacher, and has the impudence to put i
his ideas into the mouth of a ghost, who gives the Queen a i
severe and authoritative lecture for not having refused on i
theological grounds to sign the Divorce Bill when it was
placed before her. Perhaps few bills have removed more
misery from English homes than the one censured, and no
ghost of any experience, no ghost with the slightest claim to j
respectability, would say a word against the cutting of man¬
made ties, in which the affections—the jewels of the spirit—
have been sacrificed, perhaps in deference to the authority of j
the match-making mothers of the period, or perhaps because j
of similarly low aims and motives of the persons chiefly con¬
cerned. All the ills and troubles of human life are light
when there is love at home, but where this is absent, no
external conditions can remove the ever-present misery.
As Emerson says, u Nothing is so severely punished as the
disregard of those affinities on which alone society should be
formed.” If the author had brought his censures to bear
upon the causes of the evil, rather than the judicious remedy, |
it would have been to his credit, but not a few preachers
have the vice of fighting for incomprehensible dogmas |
which no intelligent person believes, yet of permitting the
more glaring and palpable vices of society to exist un¬
touched.
From a political point of view the pamphlet is equally j'
objectionable. The Queen, in her official capacity, does not i!
interfere in political or theological strife, and signs all bills as ! ]
a matter of routine duty. Yet this pamphlet not only blames j i
her for so doing, but the author pictures her as deeply and 11
seriously impressed with the common-place rant of his own, I i
which he has put into the mouth of an imaginary ghost.
In some parts of the pamphlet the author strongly i
enforces the high doctrine that God should be served rather j
than man, under all circumstances. But not satisfied with j
this noble position, he proceeds to define his notion of what |
serving God is, and to insist that the Queen and all others j
shall accept his definition. He has not yet arrived at the j
moral or intellectual altitude of giving others that liberty of |
opinion which he claims for himself, but exhibits narrow- I
minded priestly intolerance ; the same spirit, in fact, which j
was at the root of the fire-and-faggot deeds of the Martyr j
ages. |
Me. J. M. Peebles.—The Harbinger of Light says that from Ceylon, i j
Mr. Peebles will go on to Calcutta. He left Australia in the mail j
steamer Bangalore on Tuesday, June 10th. The same paper says:— I)
Dr. Peebles has finished his second mission here, has sown the seed and j
departed on his way. On the occasion of his former visit to this city, i j
in 1872, the press made common cause against him, and did their best !!
during the first month of his lectures to aggravate popular prejudice and i
write him down. It required a considerable effort on the part of his [|
committee and friends to overcome this antagonism, and place him
fairly before the public. This they finally succeeded in doing, and the (j
five lectures given by him in the Opera House prior to his departure in j j
February, 1873, were fairly reported, and very extensively read. The )j
influence of these lectures was doubtless an important factor in modify- ! (
ing the prevalent animus against Spiritualism, and preparing the public i j
mind for a more favourable consideration of its philosophy. The rational j |
views of religion promulgated by Spiritualists have had a marked in- |)
fluence on religious thought in Victoria, and large numbers are to be ) j
found, not connected with us as a body, whose views in all but the i j
fact of spirit intercourse, are identical. To this we owe the more j!
favourable reception of Dr. Peebles on the present occasion, the only j |
abuse he has received being from the sectarian press. The modern i |
‘Ephesians’ follow the example of their ancient prototypes, and cry ji
down everything that conflicts with their vested interests. The secular ]]
press has carefully avoided giving prominence to Dr. Peebles or his i i
lectures, but what it has said has been fair and truthful.” i )i
WILLIAM LILLY, THE ASTROLOGER.
BY CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY.
The following particulars (from an autobiography in the
British Museum) respecting the examination of W. Lilly
before a committee of the House of Commons appointed to
inquire into the causes of the great fire of London may be of
interest:—
u In Monarchy or no Monarchy, printed 1651,1 had framed
a hieroglyphic, which you may see in page the 7 th, repre¬
senting a great sickness and mortality, wherein you may see
the representation of people in their winding-sheets, persons
digging graves and sepultures, coffins, &c. All this was
propounded by the more secret key of astrology, or pro¬
phetical astrology. In 1666 happened that miraculous con¬
flagration in the City of London, whereby in four days the
most part thereof was consumed by fire. In my Monarchy
or no Monarchy, the next side after the coffins and pickaxes,
there is representation of a great city all in flames of fire.
The memorial whereof some Parliament men remembering
thought fit to send for me before that committee, which then
did sit for examination of the causes of the fire; and
whether there was no treachery or design in the business,
His Majesty being then in a war both with the French and
Dutch. The summons to appear before that committee was
as followeth*:—
1 Monday, 22nd Oct., 1666.—At the committee appointed
to inquire after the causes of the late fire. Ordered, that
Mr. Lilly do attend the committee on Friday next, being
the 25th Oct., 1666, at two of the clock in the afternoon, in
the Speaker’s Chamber, to answer such questions as shall be
then and there asked him. “ 1 Robert Brooke.’ ”
“ By accident I was then in London when the summons
came unto me. I was timorous of committees, being even
by some of them calumniated, upbraided, scorned, and
derided. However, I must and did appear, and let me never
forget that great affection and care yourself (oh, most ex¬
cellent and learned Esquire Ashmole) showed unto me at
that time. First, your affection in going along with me all
that day; secondly, your great pains and care in speaking
unto many worthy members of that committee, your ac¬
quaintance, that they should befriend me, and not permit me
to be affronted, or have any disgraceful language cast upon
me. I must seriously acknowledge the persuasion so pre¬
vailed with those generous souls that I conceive there was
never more civility used unto any than unto myself; and
you know there were no small number of Parliament men
appeared when they heard I was to be there.
Sir Robert Brooke (the chairman), spoke to this purpose:
(Mr. Lilly, this committe thought fit to summon you to appear
before them this day to know if you can say anything as to the
cause of the late fire, or whether there might be any design
therein. You are called the rather because in a book of yours
long since printed, you hinted some such thing in one of your
hieroglyphics.’ Unto which I replied, (< May it please your
Honours,—After the beheading of the late king, considering
that in the three subsequent years the Parliament acted
nothing which concerned the settlement of the nation in
peace, and seeing the generality of people dissatisfied, the
citizens of London discontented, the soldiery prone to mutiny,
I was desirous, according to the best knowledge God had
given me, to make inquiry by the art I studied what might
from that time happen unto the Parliament and nation in
general. At last, having satisfied myself as well as I could,
and perfected my judgment therein, I thought it most con¬
venient to signify my intentions j- and conceptions in forms,
shapes, types, hieroglyphics, &c., without any commentary
that so my judgment might be concealed from the vulgar,
and made manifest only unto the wise; I herein imitating
the example of many wise philosophers who had done the
like.’
“ ‘ Sir Robert,’ saith one, ‘ Lilly is yet suh vestihulo.'1
I preceded further ; said I,—‘ Having found, Sir, that the
City of London should be sadly afflicted with great plague,
and not long after with an exorbitant fire, I framed these two
* I first met with the story of Lilly’s examination in the form of a statement that he had
been summoned to appear at the bar of the House. I referred to the journals, and finding
no record there concluded that the story was a fabrication, or a “ growth," until I came
upon Lilly’s own account. All orders and proceedings of the House would be entered in
the journals, but not those of committees.
t It is worth while to note this old sense (now almost forgotten) of the word “ inten¬
tion," as denoting meaning.
Oct. 5, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
159
hieroglyphics, as represented in the book, which in effect
have proved very true.’ ‘ Did you foresee the year?’ said
one.’ * I did not,’ said I, | or was desirous; of that I
made no scrutiny.’ I proceeded, -—( Now, Sir, whether
there was any design of burning the city, or any employed to
that purpose, I must deal ingenuously with you, that since
the fire I have taken much pains in the search thereof, but
cannot or could not give myself the least satisfaction therein.
I conclude that it was only the finger of God, but what
instrument He used thereunto I am ignorant.’ The com¬
mittee seemed well pleased with what I spoke, and dismissed
me with great civility.”
From Lilly vindicated, and astrology honoured in his
person by a committee of the House of Commons in 1666,
let us glance back eleven years, and see him standing at the
bar of the Middlesex Sessions, to answer a vulgar charge
which seems to have partaken of the two characters (signi¬
ficant of a transition state of public opinion which had then,
however, hardly commenced) of sorcery and fraud.
“In 1655 I was indicted at Hicks’s Hill by a half witted
young woman. Three • several sessions she was neglected,
and the jury cast forth her bill, but the fourth time they found
it against me. I put in bail to traverse the indictment.
The cause of the indictment was that I had given
judgment upon stolen goods, and taken two shillings and
sixpence. And this was said to be contrary to an Act in
King James’s time made.”
This was the Act against sorceries, conjurations, enchant¬
ments, &c., repealed and replaced by the 9 Geo. 2, with
which Slade was threatened, should the Vagrant Act of
George 4th not prove applicable to his case. In 1736 the
transition of opinion was complete, and obtained legislative
expression. Thenceforth professors of occult arts or gifts were
to be punished as aforetime, but as charlatans, pretenders and
impostors, not as sorcerers. But upon the earlier Act it was
doubtful whether fortune-telling, “judgment of stolen
goods,” &c., were within the offences defined, and upon this
doubt, as will be seen, Lilly escaped. Had the Act of
George 2nd existed in 1655, he would have had no chance,
for these “ offences ” are specifically included in it.
So, let this be a word of warning to professional astro¬
logers, casters of horoscopes, &c., at the present day; for this
Act is unrepealed, and such successful prognostications as
those of “ Prosper© ”* in the Pall Mall Gazette may
exasperate the “ opponents of superstition” almost as much
as did the reports of Slade’s spirit writing.
“ This mad woman was put upon this action against me
by two ministers [persecution having not yet passed out of
the hands of the priests of religion into those of the priests
of ‘science’], who had framed for her a very ingenious jj
speech, whkh. she could speak without book, *as she did j
the day of hearing the traverse. She produced one woman j
who told the Court a son of hers was run from her ; ‘ that, |
being in much affliction of mind for her loss, she repaired unto j j
me to know what had become of him ; that I told her he was j i
gone for the Barbadoes, and she would hear from him within | |
thirteen days, which she said she did.’ ” [How this, or much j i
like it, which follows, and which I omit, could be evidence I
of the particular offence charged, one fails to see. It will be | I
remembered that similar evidence, tendered by the prosecu- i
tion in Slade’s case, was objected to, and only admitted by the
magistrate upon new summonses, including the additional
cases.] “ I owned the taking of half-a-crown for the judg-
ment of the theft” [which could not have been in the least I
material upon the charge under the Act of James] “but said j
I gave no other judgment than that the goods would not be
recovered. My counsel was the Recorder Green, who, after
he had answered all objections, concluded that astrology was
a lawful art The jury, who went not from the box,
brought in—‘ No true bill.’ ” [The sessions were not sitting,
as in Slade’s case, in the exercise of an appellate jurisdiction,
so there was a jury, and the “No true bill,” must mean a
* I do not know if “ Prospero " Bees The. Spiritualist. It is possible. If so, let even one )
of “the anti-English party” respectfully entreat him not to suffer his interpretation of ) j
the stars to be warped by his proclivities. Information. from occult sources has at all ) i
times been discredited by this tendency, which it must require a dispassionate vigilance to )
guard against. The man of science, however, can guard against it; whereas, probably, i) j
in the case of a medium the communications, whencesoever derived originally, are neces- !)
sarily coloured in their passage. This would be the case even with “ direct writing,” if, as j)
has been ingeniously suggested in your columns, the objective manifestations are only the j)
more perfect and rapid development of the subjective. The obviously subjective character j) j
of some of Slade’s messages caused more scorn and denial than the evidence of physical IJ i
interference. '''
|| verdict of “ Not guilty.”] “ I had procured Justice Hooker
| to be there, who was the oracle of all the justices of the
peace in Middlesex”—as Mr. Edlin, the assistant-judge
| should have been, on a point of law, the other day. We
| had our “Recorder Green” in Serjeant Ballantine; alas I
| that Mr. Serjeant Cox could not have played the part of
J that “judicious” Hooker I*
j | ] Temple, Sept. 29th.
| A NEW SPIRITUALISTIC ORGANISATION IN AUSTRALIA.
\[\ On Friday, 29th June, several prominent Spiritualists met Dr.
1111 Peebles, at 84, Russell-street, Melbourne, to talk over the present
i j i prospects of the movement here, and consider what could be done to
i | utilise the effect produced by his lectures. It was considered by those
j) j present that the time had come for a reorganisation of Spiritualists,
] j and with that view it was determined to adjourn the meeting for a
| I week, in order that a larger number might be present at the initiation,
jj j In accordance with this resolution, notes were sent to several of the
I (| leading Spiritualists of Melbourne, requesting their attendance on Fri-
j j day, 6th July, and were in most instances responded to, twenty-six
| j | ladies and gentlemen attending. Mr. H. Brotherton was voted to the
j (j chair, and Mr. W. H. Terry accepted the office of secretary pro tem.
j)[ On the motion of Mr. A. Deakin, seconded by Mr. J. MTlwraith,
! those present enrolled themselves as an organisation of Spiritualists,
jl A provisional committee was appointed, consisting of Messrs. Bro-
! j therton, Bonney, Strachan, Stow, Williams, Deakin, and Mrs. Williams,
j and the work indicated for them—to ascertain the practicability and
|j probable cost of establishing a library and reading-room, a monthly
I) conversazione of a social and intellectual character, and such other
| matters as were likely to conduce to the dissemination of a knowledge of
| Spiritualistic truth.
j The committee so appointed held two meetings, and prepared the
j following scheme for presentation to a general meeting, which was held
at the Masonic Hall, on Thursday, 26th July:—
j REPORT OP THE PROVISIONAL COMMITTEE OP THE VICTORIAN SPIRITUALISTIC
ASSOCIATION.
Melbourne, July, 1877.
The committee appointed by the meeting of Spiritualists, held at
84, Russell-street, on the 7th July, to ascertain the practicability and expense
of establishing a library and reading-room, also a monthly conversazione, and
other matters tending to unite Spiritualists and disseminate a knowledge of
Spiritualistic truth, has held two meetings, and now has the honour to present
for the consideration of this meeting a progress report, containing a scheme
of organisation, and a plan for carrying out the objects suggested by the
general meeting.
Your committee, in the first place, recommend that the organisation be
called, “ The Victorian Association of Spiritualists,” this title being considered
both comprehensive and definite.
Secondly—That the objects of this Association be the investigation and ad¬
vancement of Spiritualistic truths and purposes.
Thirdly—That a permanent office and reading-room be established and
maintained, at a cost not exceeding £52 per annum. That this reading-room
be opened daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and from 7 to 10 p.m. Also on Sun¬
day afternoons, if volunteer attendants can be obtained.
Fourthly—That a conversazione of a social and intellectual character be
held once a month.
Fifthly—That membership consist of enrolment in the secretary’s book, and
the payment of a quarterly subscription, the amount to be fixed by the appli¬
cant. Applicants to be approved by the committee before being entered on
the permanent roll, the committee having power to reject any name, or expel
objectionable persons. After the first election, new members not to be entitled
to vote until throe months after enrolment.
Your committee recommend the election of the following officers, viz.: —
One president, two or more vice-presidents, two secretaries, one treasurer and
librarian, and a committee of not less than seven.
A. Brotherton, B. Bonney, A. D. Strachan, J. L. Williams,
Florence Williams, A. Deakin, W. H. Terry.
The recommendations of the committee were submitted to the meeting
seriatim; the first and second were passed without alteration; in the
third, the maximum present expense for maintenance of the reading-
room was increased to ,£75 per annum, and with this alteration, passed.
The fourth recommendation for a monthly conversazione was passed,
a quarterly social gathering on a larger scale being also suggested. The
fifth recommendation was passed without alteration, and the sixth with
the number ten substituted for seven. A resolution was also passed to
the effect that the committee submit all matters of general policy to a
meeting of the Association, the quorum on such occasions not to be less
than twenty.
The meeting then proceeded to the election of officers, when the
following were elected:—President, Mr. John MTlwraith ; vice-presi¬
dents, Mr. T. W. Stanford, Mr. Henry Brotherton; secretaries, Mr.
S. B. Bonney (general), Mr. D. Deakin (corresponding); treasurer and
librarian, Mr. W. H. Terry.
Since the meeting Mr. MTlwraith has been compelled to decline the
presidency, owing to pressing business matters.—Harbinger of Light.
* When writing the above I was not aware that the particulars given were to he found
in a book so easily accessible as Mr. Bohn’s edition of Lilly's Introduction to Astrology
by Zadkiel, republished only two years ago. It would be interesting to know if your cor¬
respondent “Aldebaran ” can confirm the confident statements in the preface, that Horary
Astrology is both infallible and easily learned.—0.0. M.
160
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 5, 1877.
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF MEDIUMS.
BY EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
I have no sympathy with the disposition which leads
many blindly to rush to the defence of doubtful mediums
when accused, upon sufficient grounds, of deception ; and
this, even when the accusation is made by long-tried, ex¬
perienced, and intelligent Spiritualists, whose only motive
may be the vindication of the truth, and a proper regard for
the purity of Spiritualism. This indiscriminate and quixotic
defence betokens a credulous nature, and a falsely chivalrous
spirit, which, when it results in glossing the faults of the
medium, is quite certain to lead to the commission of further
acts of deception, and finally to his exposure and disgrace—
a disgrace which all Spiritualists are compelled to share in
the eyes of the world. By some of these zealous but not
discreet champions of all mediums, whether true or false, it
has been urged that they should have a sufficient strength
and independence to enable them to deny having their divine
powers tested in any way whatever.” For the sake of the
cause and of mediums themselves, I hope never to see the
day when this rule will prevail, for then, instead of having
one pope, like the Roman Catholics, we shall have a host,
equally fallible, and the doctrines taught and the miracles
performed, will be of a more unreliable character than those
of the Catholic Church.
Mediums, like all others, should be held to a strict ac¬
countability, for a moment’s reflection will convince every
reasonable mind that the knowledge of their exemption
would open wide the doors to every species of charlatanry,
fraud, imposition, and even crime ; and Spiritualism, based
though it be upon the immutable foundations of demon¬
strated and divine truth,would crumble and decay, and its true
supporters and defenders would be compelled to flee from
the righteous indignation of outraged society. All good
and intelligent spirits teach us to accept nothing from them
without proof, or nothing at least which cannot bear the
severest tests that our judgment can impose. This is the
true and proper method of communicating with them, as
taught by themselves, and can it be that this rule, thus
approved, should apply only to them and their teachings,
and not to their instruments, the mediums, through whom
they manifest? Is the instrument of communication less
fallible than the communicating intelligence ? Does all the
risk of error rest alone with the latter, while the former is
guileless and free from error ? Experience and observation
do not confirm this; but, on the contrary, they teach us the
necessity of exercising equal caution in our dealings with
both.
If persons professing to be mediums are detected in coun¬
terfeiting manifestations, they should not be allowed to
shield themselves under the “ plea that their hands or
persons have been used by the spirits,” for mediums and
their spirit guides are for these purposes units—of one mind.
An honest medium will always successfully rebel against all
attempts at dishonest practices on the part of his spirit
guide, and it is not only impossible for any spirit to
habitually or even frequently practice deception through an
honest medium, but it is doubtful whether an honest me¬
dium exists whose spirit guide is not equally honest. My
observation has led me to believe that this is a rule, with
few, if any, exceptions. So, if we should be charitably
disposed to exonerate the medium from direct action or com¬
plicity in the deception, we still have his associated spirit
guide to deal with, and we cannot exonerate both; and as
they are virtually one in mind and intention, we must, if
we desire to avoid being imposed upon, while pitying the
medium, shun both, for it is quite as often true as otherwise
that “ the spirits of the prophets (or mediums) are subject
to the prophets.”
Modern Spiritualism appears to have been destined to
bear, not only its own proper burdens, the scorn, and even
malice of perverse bigotry and opposing interests, and the
affected contempt of shallow and thoughtless minds, but, in
addition, to encounter the organised attempts of professed
friends to foist upon it practices and teachings which are
entirely foreign to its spirit, its objects, and aims, and
which, if firmly engrafted upon it, would surely crush out
its life, and sink it to the level of those base superstitions
which in all ages have defaced the records of humanity;
< | from which nothing beneficial has ever proceeded, and whose
11 only fruit is evil.
>| The path of the true Spiritualist is not strewn with flowers
j I alone; thorns are also to be encountered, and if we would
\\ pursue this path successfully we must exercise proper dis-
;! cretion and constant care and watchfulness, lest we lose sight
s | of the flowers in the suffering inflicted by the brambles and
?| thorns which we have neglected to guard against. We
)j should be animated by the spirit of charity in all our
< i thoughts and acts towards each other, and especially toward
/j mediums, but our charity should be discriminating, and not
flow so abundantly as to deteriorate in quality until it is no
a longer sustaining and helpful. In other words there should
)j be a reasonable assurance that the objects of our charity
(| are worthy of it, otherwise we are unjust to honest mediums,
<! who alone are entitled to our full confidence and protective
) | care, and such a false course is calculated to render valueless
(j in their estimation the good opinion and approval which are
| so indiscriminately bestowed, and to cause them to become
S \ indifferent to either praise or censure.
> | My advice to all true and honest 'mediums is to comply
! I with all reasonably, timely, and 'proper demands for test con-
) I ditions. When a medium professes to render service for pay
11 there is an implied understanding that the payer shall receive
[ ( a quid pro quo for his money, and to this extent it is a busi-
11 ness transaction, and I consider the medium bound to ex-
y tend all courtesy and consideration, as just said, to all
11 reasonable and proper requests for test conditions. This is
i ] the business view of it, but beside this is the question,
j | u What do the true interests of both the medium and the
!| cause demand, in relation to this subject?” and it should
11 be apparent that the course here indicated is the best and
[ j most advantageous for both, for the arbitrary refusal to com-
11 ply with the reasonable wishes of investigators invariably
j leads to dissatisfaction and suspicion, and colour is given to,
j it may be, calumnies, which not only react on the medium,
| disturbing his condition and dissipating his power, but his
| character and influence are unfavourably affected, and the
| cause itself brought temporarily into contempt. Whereas, if
the requests of the investigator are met in a kindly and
fraternal spirit, it is quite probable that not only all this
j difficulty will be avoided, but that the investigator will be
favourably impressed with, perhaps confirmed in, the truth,
and the medium secure a lasting friend, instead of an ad-
| versary.
But the reader should not infer from what is here said
! that I am in favour of a medium submitting to the sense-
| less, or, perhaps, ill-intended demands for conditions, which
| sometimes are made by persons lacking -every qualification
| necessary for investigation, or by enemies, both of the
medium and the cause. Here the medium should not only
refuse compliance, but he should be supported in his refusal
by friends present. He and they should then decide what
is, or what is not, proper to concede.
In my experience, I have always found the most reliable
j mediums the most willing to submit to reasonable tests,
I when proposed in a proper spirit and manner. How is it
| possible to discriminate between true and false mediums
| unless it be by testing them? The greatest of all mediums,
| Jesus of Nazareth, as a materialised spirit, invited the
I sceptical Thomas to test his substantiality by touching him.
j This is an eminent and forcible example, which none of our
j mediums can afford to ignore.
With our best mediums of approved honesty and power
| certain unsatisfactory manifestations may occur, unaccom-
| panied by any convincing evidence of collusion or fraud,
| while there may be possible grounds for suspicion. The
| difficulties involved in the exercise of mediumship are
| always great, and sometimes insurmountable ; the power is
| often exerted unequally, and is liable in its operation to
frequent checks and imperfect manifestations, and with
| perhaps all mediums this unequal operation, and the partially
| accomplished results, are the principal stumbling blocks in
| the way of conviction. To condemn a medium upon the
j accusations of one or a dozen incompetent witnesses would
I be unwise, uncharitable, and unjust. It is clearly the duty
| of Spiritualists to defend the medium against such apparent
| but unfounded aspersions, not by denouncing the probably
l honest accusers, but by taking measures to demonstrate their
Oct. 5, 1877.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
161
error, and the consequent injustice of the charge of fraud,
and, if the accusation be groundless, by pursuing this course
the innocence of the medium will surely be established, at
least in the minds of all intelligent Spiritualists, and this
result is, perhaps, more to be desired than that the accusers
should be convinced. At any rate, the sensible and proper
course will have been pursued, and the cause of truth will
not suffer in the end.
The attempts to shield mediums from their responsibility
can never result in good to honest mediums. They neither
ask nor require such exemption, while, on the other hand,
dishonest and immoral mediums eagerly avail themselves of
the shield which such attempts interpose between them and
the consequences of their acts. Their hands are strengthened
by all such unwise and unworthy attempts, and they find
encouragement and support in their deceptive and sometimes
immoral practices, while the cause their professed advocacy
defiles is rendered more or less odious to earnest and sensible
unconvinced investigators who may witness and detect their j)
imposture.—Religio-Philosophical Journal. j
AT HOME WITH FIRE.
To the Editor of the “ Banner of Light ” [September Voth, 1877).
Sir,—On Sunday afternoon, September 1st, I heard that
Mrs. Suydam, the ufire-test” medium, was to give a sfance
at Eagle Hall, in the evening, and I went to see it. It was j
very satisfactory. She thoroughly and quite permanently (
held her hands and arms in the hot flame of a kerosene lamp, j
also manipulated burning alcohol, breathing it into her >
mouth. She did enough of this to have blistered or roasted
flesh under ordinary circumstances. j
After she had finished (and the committee of sceptics had
stated what any one in the room could see was the fact,
that neither her flesh, nor even the small hairs on
the flesh experienced in the least degree any dis¬
turbance by the operation), a person claiming to be a
Spiritualist, whose name was said to be Moore, arose and
said the whole thing was a fraud; he afterwards qualified it, >
as u his opinion.” The rudeness of the attack was based
not on any knowledge of Mrs. Suydam, but wholly on the
fact that people had advertised and performed "more wonder¬
ful fire feats, such as holding live coals and melted lead in
their hands, and putting them into their mouths. He said
that spirits had nothing to do with it, but that it was
the result of chemical protection. This speech was followed
by an animated but disagreeable discussion. Finally a man
named Butler, who said he was not a Spiritualist, but had (
some knowledge of chemicals, offered to come prepared to
test the lady on some occasion for his own satisfaction, and
said he would like to bring with him some experts and
doctors. This was agreed to by Mrs. Suydam. Tuesday
evening (4th) was fixed for the seance^ and a very intelligent-
looking audience gathered on the occasion, Mr. Butler ap- j
pearing with a number of chemists and doctors, who, by
general consent, took charge of the exhibition. Dr. Thayer,
a well-known city physician, was requested to examine Mrs. j
Suydam’s arms ; he did so minutely, and pronounced them
perfectly healthy and natural; he could detect no chemical j
application on them. Mr. Butler then bathed her arms and (
hands in a solution that would annul any chemical applica¬
tion ; Mrs. Suydam then washed them with soap and water,
and wiped them dry, Mr. Butler providing the materials.
Mrs. Suydam next deliberately took the hot glass with
both hands from the lamp, held it steadily in her hands, and
then laid it on her cheek and neck, with apparently the same
effect as if it had been only blood warm. She then put her
hands into the flame and kept them there, drawing her arms |
slowly through it, allowing it to run up through her extended
fingers, turning her hand slowly without withdrawing
it, allowing the flame to run through the fingers the other
way.
The exhibition was as remarkable as it was satisfactory,
and was unanimously and enthusiastically applauded. Re¬
marks were made by several persons, and the discussion was
quite animated. Every one was satisfied that the thing was
fairly and actually done, but the how was quite a problem.
The committee did not seem to think the spiritual claim
good, they not being Spiritualists; that was a matter of
course. Mr. Butler, who seemed to be the leader of the
evening, thought by practice he could do it, and while saying
so, his first attempt to remove the glass (which was some
degrees cooler than when Mrs. Suydam took hold of it)
made him jump, and the audience smile; he thought the
carbon, or smoke of the high flame, possibly became
gradually a protection to the skin, and then proceeded to
put his hands in and out of the flame, not as Mrs. Suydam
did, to stay and be at home in the flame, but as any raw
operator would, moving them all the time, and not in the
flame two consecutive seconds. Still, he thought that by
practice he could do all that the lady did. At this point he
remarked that he smelled burnt hair, and looking at his
hands, he found his trifling manipulation of the flame had
burned all the small hairs off of his hands. It was the
testimony of the committee, including Dr. Thayer, and the
experience of any who chose to examine, that after Mrs.
Suydam’s protracted association with the same flame, and
also the manipulating of an alcoholic flame, not a hair on
her hands or arms was singed.
This was so evidently a success, and the astute observers
were so at a loss to explain it, that the closing discussion
was quite scientific and respectful; even Mr. Moore, though
disbelieving the spiritual claim, seemed inclined to apologise
for his rudeness, as some considered it, on Sunday evening.
A full report of the remarks would be interesting reading,
but I have confined this article to the simple details of the
|f test.” One remark which Dr. Thayer made was so true,
and from so intelligent a source, that it is worth noting in¬
dependently of the seance I have attempted to describe.
The doctor said that he did not say he was not a Spiritualist;
the study of material science, physics, tended to make
people materialists, and he had had doubts of a future
existence, but as he had grown older he had become satisfied
that man was immortal. “ Most of you here,” said he,
seem to be Spiritualists. Let me say to you that one-half
of the brain of Boston is very hospitable to modern Spirit¬
ualism. One- half of the brain of this city receives the mani¬
festations of modern Spiritualism with a good deal of tender¬
ness, and many more would own up their belief if by
admitting being Spiritualists they did not seem to be
approving manifestations that are silly, degrading, and
fraudulent. When the subject is purged from tainted
associations many will be openly with you of culture and
science who know it roots in truth, but do not wish by
identification seemingly to endorse the doubtful or dis¬
creditable.” John Wetherbee.
We are bom to an inheritance of opinions, right and wrong, and
right or wrong, we cling to them with a pertinacity exceeded by nothing
but our attachment to life. The seeds of error, as well as of truth, are
planted by the stupid parent in the minds of his unfortunate children,
and lucky is the child in whose mind the tares do not choke the wheat
before he is able to distinguish one from the other.— Voltaire.
Mr. Tyerman.—Mr. John Tyerman, the well-known Spiritualist
lecturer, returned to Sydney by The Barrabool on the 24th ult. Our
readers may remember that his visit to Melbourne was undertaken in
the hope of restoring his health, which had failed principally from over¬
exertion of the mental powers. We are happy to be able to report that
the object of his visit has been so far attained that there is every
prospect of his being able, in the course of a few weeks, to resume his
public labours. This result is in a great measure due to the mesmeric
treatment of Mr. Singleton. Mr. Tyerman expressed the regret he felt
at being unable to give any public lectures here, and requested us to
thank the many kind friends who contributed to the fund initiated on
his behalf. The only occasion on which he spoke in public here was at
the Melbourne Spiritualists’ Lyceum for Children, on Sunday, 15th
July, of which the following is a brief report:—Mr. Tyerman prefaced
his remarks by referring to the unfortunate circumstances under which
his present visit to Victoria was made. He had come here in the hopes
of recruiting his failing health, and although he believed he was de¬
cidedly better, he felt that he was not yet strong enough to speak in
public as he desired. He had seen a little of the Lyceum when here
before, but what he had recently seen had so heightened his estimation
of that institution that he should, when his health was restored,
endeavour to establish one in Sydney. It appeared to him that the
principle of the Lyceum was not to cram or indoctrinate the children,
but to cultivate and draw them out. He had formerly had considerable
experience in connection with orthodox Sunday schools, to which the
Lyceum formed a marked contrast. He exhorted the little ones of the
Lyceum to practical goodness, and to remember the proximity of their
spirit friends. To the elder members he enlarged upon the truths of
Spiritualism, and the eclectic nature of the Spiritualistic belief, com¬
prehending Freethought. and all that was good in the Christian religion.
Mr. Tyerman’s remarks were listened to with attention, and were
applauded at the conclusion.—Harbinger of Light.
162
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Got. 5, 1877.
THE BARON AND BARONESS VON VAY.
In the course of a private letter from Prussia, dated
Sept. 27thto Mr. W. H. Harrison, the Baroness von Yay
says:—
“ Early in October we shall be back again in Gonobitz.
We hope to return to England in 1879, and to make a longer
stay in London, the magnificence of which pleased us very
much.
Ci Would you be so kind as to repeat the Baron’s and my
best thanks to all the members of the British National
Association of Spiritualists for the hearty and nice welcome
they gave us. That evening remains one of the best re¬
membrances of my life; you were all so kind and friendly
to us. I scarcely thank you enough with these simple
words, and wish I could express all the ( estime ’ I feel for the
Association and its members. Had it not been for the illness
of my mother-in-law we should have spent several weeks in
London, but this hastened our steps homewards.
u Our seance with Mr. Slade, at the Hague, was one of
the best ones. I am fully convinced, and so is the Baron,
of that medium’s genuineness and good character.—\_N.B.
Before the seance the Baron and Baroness von Vay were fully
aware of all the assertions of Messrs. Maskelyne, Lankester^
and Donkin about Dr. Slade.~\
u We sat in full daylight at midday, and got spirit-writing
upon our own slates, Slade holding them upon the Baron’s
head. He (my husband) felt the writing upon the top of
his head, and we heard it distinctly. Then Slade held the
slate upon the Baron’s shoulder, and again a message was
written.
“ When our hands were all united upon the table, I felt
somebody pressing my knee. On looking under the table I
saw a nice little woman’s hand coming near to me; I took
it in mine; it grasped me, then melted away in my touch.
Once the table floated upwards, and a chair too, which stood
very far from Dr. Slade. So the seance was a very con¬
vincing one, this occurring all in broad daylight before our
eyes.”
THE PHENOMENON OF THE MATERIALISATION OF A
SPIRIT CLOSELY OBSERVED.
TRY THE REV. THOMAS COLLEY, LATE CHAPLAIN TO H.M.S. ,f MALABAR.”
Springs the immortal from the mortal ?
Heaven is twin with earth ;
Man is made the Spirit’s portal,
And th’ invisible hath birth.—Thos. Colley.
I have just witnessed the most marvellous materialisation
phenomenon I have ever heard of or can conceive. About
half-past six o’clock this evening, Dr. Donald Kennedy,
of Boston, U.S., with Dr. Monck, called on me to accom¬
pany them to a hastily-improvised and telegram-arranged
sitting at the house of a friend near London.
First we sat, four men only, with our wits about us, I
hope, for preliminary manifestations in the light, consisting
of test si ate-writing-. Dr. Kennedy was instructed to write
a question, secretly, on one slate, and then tie it over
another, with a bit of pencil placed between, so that by
invisible power the spirit answer might be given. This was
done, the slates being tied up in a handkerchief and placed
for a moment on the carpet, in the shade, under the table,
all hands being visible while the writing was in audible pro¬
cess. The answer was pertinent to the question put, a
communication to Dr. Kennedy also being added, which had
in it the nature of a test, inasmuch as it bore reference to a
matter of private interest and importance to the gentleman
named.
After this some writing paper was placed between the
leaves of a book, and, with a lead pencil, these were put
beneath the table, Dr. Kennedy instantly placing his foot
upon the volume to secure it. Samuel (Dr. Monck’s control)
then requested him to name the number of the page and
line for an extract; page twenty and line ten at random
were suggested, and quickly the mystery was accomplished,
Dr. Kennedy removing his foot for a moment for the book
to be handed up. The extract was literally and correctly
given, and a further message to Dr. Kennedy was found,
consisting of fifty-six words over and above the thirteen
transcribed answering to the page and line desired, making,
with the slate and other direct writing yet to be noticed,
one hundred and four words in three totally different styles
jij of handwriting, each communication being consistent as to
" jjj style throughout.
1|| And now a small bell, placed on the table, was seen to
j|j rise from and float over it, and hang suspended in space,
j j then dip obliquely, and ring several times, we surrrounding
j it, passing our hands above and about it, to be per-
j j fectly sure that no hair, or wire, or thread, magnet below,
| | or fraud from any place still lower sustained it, as, in
11 wicked opposition to known laws, it acted in a manner frolic-
| | somely contumacious of scientific propriety, and was sadly
| | regardless of what might have been expected from it on the
| i score of gravitation.
| Then a lead pencil, placed on some paper, got up, sloped
j itself to the writing angle, and, with no hand visible to guide
j it, wrote with considerable pressure, manifest from the depth
of colour and indentation of the pencil point in the paper, a
sentence of five words. The surpassing swiftness with
j which these few words were written was amazing. I tore
| the paper, and placed it under the pencil, which latter, no
j sooner raised itself to the proper pitch to feel its point, than
| | with electric speed it moved, and the sixty-eight separate
| | movements of the pencil necessary to write the five words
! i were effected instantaneously.
| | But yet another slate-writing test was to be given. Two
m slates were placed together, with a splinter of slate pencil
j between them, and Dr. Kennedy, resting his hand with
j force, with Dr. Monck’s, upon the upper one, dictated
| i that the word “ Remember ” should be written ; and while
| | so held in this manner, precluding all possibility of decep-
11 tion, with six eyes watchful to detect, and six ears acute to
| | discover anything like hanky-panky, no sooner was the word
| | given than the sound of writing under Dr. Kennedy’s hand
| | was heard, and instantly the unpremeditated word was
j i written.
Then having half-an-hour still to spare, the two ladies of
| | the house joined us, and we sat for materialisation. The back-
11 room, divided from the front by folding doors (one shut, and
| | a curtain partly covering the other) formed the cabinet,
I I which was little needed; for Dr. Monck, under control of
1 a Samuel,” was, by the light of the lamp—the writer not
]|| being a yard away from him—seen by all to be the living gate
| | for the extrusion of spirit forms from the realm of mind into
jjj this world of matter: for standing forth thus plainly before
||| us, the psychic or spirit-form was seen to grow out of his
I | left side. First several faces one after another, of great
• beauty appeared, and in amazement we saw, and as I was
I | suffered to stand close up to the medium, even touching him,
|| I saw most plainly—several times, a perfect face and form of
• i - exquisite womanhood partially issue from Dr. Monck, about
| | the region of the heart. Then, after several attempts, a full
j | formed figure, in a nebulous condition at first, but growing
| | solider as it issued from the medium, left Dr. Monck, and
! stood, a separate individuality, two or three feet off, bound to
| him by a slender attachment as of gossamer, which at my
| request, Samuel in control severed with the medium’s left
| hand ; and there stood embodied a spirit form of unutterable
I loveliness, robed in attire spirit-spun—a meshy web-work
I from no mortal loom, of a fleeciness inimitable and of trans-
| figuration whiteness truly glistening.
| But Dr. Kennedy was now invited to draw equally near,
| and realise more closely, with me, the marvel of the separate
| identity of the spirit form from the medium, and as we
| stood, looking with all our soul upon the mighty fact of
| spirit birth from mortal man. Dr. Monck, still entranced,
| placed the lovely visitant from the inner world between us,
| and affording it the support each of an arm, we advanced
| with our sweet spirit companion some steps further into the
| room. Meanwhile, holding the hand of the spirit arm that
| rested on mine, I felt the wrist, palm, fingers, and finger
I nails. It was in every respect a living hand, answering to
>| my touch, yielding to pressure, having natural weight and
|| substance, and all things pertaining to humanity, but it was
II damp and stone cold; and the thought passed through my
11 mind how like steam, first invisible, condensed, is then
I seen as cloudy vapour, which precipitated, may finally take
solid form in ice, this figure at my side had, by a somewhat
| analogous process, been rendered visible and tangible, from
j the vital force, viewless and imponderable of the medium.
[ It had, under the chemistry, not yet understood, of the highei1
Oct. 1 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
163
life, condensed into the nebulous condition instanced of the j
form’s first appearance, then further solidified into the lovely j
creature we supported and wistfully beheld. I
But, not to theorise, I now come to the climax of the j
night’s most wonderful phenomena. i
When the form at last retired, I was, as an extreme favour, j
which might cost the medium great prostration, permitted |
to accompany it, and draw near with it slowly and cautiously j
until I came again close up to Dr. Monck, as he, still en- |
tranced, stood forth full in view of all, waiting to receive j
back unto himself the marvellous iEon, phantasm or emana- j
tion that we must call angel or spirit. As it neared him, j
the gossamer filament again came into view, its attenuated
and vanishing point being, as before, towards the heart. |
By means of this subtle cord I noticed how the psychic j
figure seemed to be sucked back into the body of the medium, j
For, like a water-spout at sea, funnel-shaped, or sand column j
such as I have seen in Egypt, but horizontal instead of vertical, j
the superior vital power of Dr. Monck seemed to absorb and j
draw in the spirit form, but so gradually that I was enabled j
closely to watch the process; for, leaning against, and |
holding the medium, with my left arm at his back, and my j
left ear and cheek to his breast, his heart beating in a most
violent and alarming way, I saw him receive back the lovely !
birth of the invisible spheres into his very person ; and, as j
I gazed for the last time on the sweet face of the disintegrating i
spirit, within three or four inches of the features, I marked |
its fair aspect, eyes, hair, and delicate complexion, and i<
kissed the dainty hand, as, in process of absorption, it dis- |
solved, and saw the angel face disappear and fade, as it was j
drawn, positively, into the bosom of the medium. Gazing |
thus closely, with awe and breathless interest, did I, there- I
fore, watch the departure of our angel friend, and, through the j
living gate and avenue of the medium’s very self, did I, with |
feelings indescribable, mark the steps of her progress to j
regain, through the living organism and body of Dr. Monck, I
her home in the viewless spheres. j
London, Tuesday, Sept. 25th, 1877. j(
SEANCES IN PARIS. j
For some time past the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, has pub- j
lished in these pages many of the details of interesting !
seances held in Paris by himself and the Count de Bullet, j
with the medium Mr. Firman. The groupe in Paris has |
been one of those best of all circles for obtaining advanced j
results, namely, one in which the medium is not worried, |
but protected like a delicate instrument from bad or stupid |
usage by the ignorant, and wherein the powers at the root i|
of the matter, freely have their own way. Mr. Blackburn |j
conducts a circle on similarly wise principles in England. |j
Another good feature about the seances, is the unquestion- <
able honour and integrity of the chief witnesses. This at j
once reduces all questions at issue, to problems of a purely j
scientific nature, and to the amount of absence of error in j<
observations and conclusions. j!
One of the results obtained at Count de Bullet’s seances |j
seems to be thoroughly established, namely the passage of h
solid matter through orifices too small to permit the trans- j!
mission of the objects by any means known to science. The j1
objections made to such results do not seem to us to have h
sufficient weight to be taken into consideration, as possible j!
alternatives, without practical demonstration. |]
Photographs of the results have been presented to the <
Council of the National Association of Spiritualists, which, j!
after thanking donors for presents, always refers the gifts |]
connected with phenomenal Spiritualism to the Research J'
Committee, before they are placed on permanent public view, j!
Of this Committee Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, the electrician, \\
is chairman. There may be a few natural questions which 1
the public would like to ask and Mr. O’Sullivan to answer, !
about the moulds, so perhaps those questions had better be put
through the Research Committee.
The new session of the Psychological Society of Great Britain begins
early in November.
Me. W. H. Haeeison’s book of selected prose and poetical compositions, i
many of them written while engaged in the work of daily and weekly i
newspaper editing, before Mr. Cromwell Varley called his attention to
Spiritualism, will be published to morrow. ‘
MESMERISM.
BY HENRY Q. ATKINSON, F.G.S.
You should remember that but a few of the older mes¬
merists are now alive, and that they are old, so the work
must be recommenced by the young. It was in 1851 that
my Letters to Miss Martineau were published, the same year
as Dr. Gregory’s book, which together seemed to form a sort
of termination to what I may call u the mesmeric period,”
since the interest found in mesmerism was transferred to
the more startling phenomena of Spiritualism, and it is
only lately that Spiritualists have shown a more real
scientific interest in the phenomena in question, and seen
that all the correlated facts, such as the mesmeric, must be
taken into their account. Until lately I do not think that
even you, sir, would have given place to detailed accounts of
mesmeric cases.*
Captain James refers to a case of mine of a young lady
kept in the mesmeric state, not for weeks, as he says, but
for seven months, during which time she neither ate nor
drank anything, and was continually spitting blood. She
was one of the most perfect clairvoyants I have known. But
a still more remarkable case of mine is given in the Rev.
George Sandby’s book on Mesmerism and its Opponents,
dedicated to Captain James, but which has been long out of
print. The case I refer to was that of Annie Yials, who
became an ecstatic. Hundreds of persons, actors, poets,
authors, artists, and scientific men, together with the
nobility, visited my house to witness the striking beauty of
the phenomena, and I should be happy to copy out the case,
with additional remarks and information, if I knew that it
would be acceptable. There are not many such cases as
those I am alluding to, because to devote yourself for seven
months night and day to one case is not a light matter ; but
the remarkable phenomena that occurred during all that time
repaid me for the labour. I have received a note this
morning from a Mr. Francis Ashley, who, it seems, is a
mesmerist, but, like Mr. Serjeant Cox, does not believe
in any actual mesmeric force. Mr. Ashley thinks the
so-called mesmeric state is u self-induced,” and that is a
matter to be considered, of course, but that could not account
for thought-reading, brain-sympathy, and sympathy at a dis¬
tance, of which I could give most positive and striking
instances. It would not account for Mr. Thompson and my¬
self causing a sensitive in a crowded room to go and do what
we silently willed. So common is thought-reading with
some operators, that they refuse to believe in phreno-mes¬
merism, considering it to be all and only thought-transfer.
Unfortunately people will generalise from insufficient evi¬
dence and from their own particular experience, but it so
happens that I never induced thought-reading in any of my
patients notwithstanding the cases of sympathy at a distance,
certainly not in the cases of phreno-mesmerism, on which I
relied. The case of Goethe’s grandfather, related by himself,
makes it certain that there is such a fact as mental transfer,
and indeed a large portion of what is termed clairvoyance,
must be accounted for in this way—that is, by a sympathy
at a distance with persons en rapport, and Lord Bacon him¬
self reports instances. It seems to me that sympathy is the
first step in mesmeric matters. Similar phenomena occur in
the normal state, and of them we have such abundant
accounts on record. The principle on which Mr. Braid acted
was quite a different thing. To conclude,'I hold that the
older mesmerisers have done their part, and now it is for the
younger ones to do theirs.
Quai de la Douane, Boulogne-sur-Mer, Sept. 30th, 1877,
Mr. Morse’s Appointments.—On Sunday next, October 7th, Mr. J.
J. Morse will deliver an inspirational address in the Spiritualists’ Hall,
Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne—subject, “The Spirit-Man”; to
commence at 6.30 p.m. On Monday, October 8th, Mr. Morse will
deliver another address at eight p.m.,—subject, “ Gods, False and
True.” On Tuesday evening, October 9tb, Mr. Morse will address the
Spiritualists of South Shields; and on Wednesday and. Thursday,
October 10th and 11th, he will deliver trance addresses in the Hall
School, Sunderland. During the next two months he will deliver
several trance addresses at Stockton-on-Tees.
* This is quite a mistake; we have been for years to all the mesmeric experiments we
could get a chance of witnessing, and with the full knowledge they were connected with
Spiritualism. The first mesmeric lecture so witnessed was summarised in The Spirit¬
ualist eight years ago. All through the last eight years we have also given much time to
the gathering of information about the physiology of the nervous system, instead of giving
attention to the exact sciences which constituted our former “ groove,” and the facts
ascertained were recorded in these pages, ready for Spiritualistic students when the
should begin to feel the want of them.—Ed.
164
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 5, 1877.
DR. SLADE’S MOVEMENTS.
A letter from Mr. Simmons, dated September 30th, informs us of
the intention of Dr. Slade and his party to leave Brussels, October 2nd
(last Tuesday), for Nykjoebing in [Denmark; after staying there for a
time they expect to go on to St. Petersburgh.
The Harbinger of Light (Melbourne), received by the last mail, con¬
tains the following paragraph :—
We are in receipt of a letter from Dr. Henry Slade, dated ‘‘The
Hague, Holland, 10th May,’’ in which he definitely announces his ac¬
ceptance of an invitation, formerly sent to him, to visit Melbourne
immediately after the fulfilment of his Russian engagement. In re¬
ference to the latter, however, he intimates the probability of the
Russian war interfering with its fulfilment, in which case he would be
prepared to leave Holland, en route for Melbourne, before the end ot
October.
Dr. Slade is one of the most gifted and reliable mediums living, and
to those who imagine that the Bow-street conviction was the result of
fraud or trickery on his part, we would recommend the perusal of The
Slade Trial and its Lessons, by M.A. (Oxon.)
Our esteemed friend, Dr. Peebles, has been intimately acquainted
with Dr. Slade for many years, and has every confidence in his honesty
as a medium. We have little doubt that the Spiritualists here will give
him a cordial welcome, and take steps to prevent any attempts at perse¬
cution by prejudiced bigots.
A HAUNTED HOUSE. j
[From the “St. Louis Globe-Democratf)
In' one of the most pleasant and aristocratic localities of our city, a 11
few evenings ago, there were some strange manifestations, by some |(
supposed to be spiritual doings. The bells began to ring. First the | \
front door bell, then the servants’, then the kitchen, and then all the j (
bells rang at once. The inmates watched first one and then another of j (
the bells, but they always rang when they were not watching. After ] j
guarding outdoors and in until exhausted, and they had become ex- j)
treraely alarmed, the ringing stopped at 3.30 in the morning. The I (
servant girls gave notice that they would leave next day, but to quiet ! |
them the gentleman of the house told them that the disturbance wTas !)
caused only by electricity, and he would have the bells fixed; and I (
away he went to see the bell-hangers, and get them to ascertain what n
was the matter. They tightened some of the wires and loosened others, j)
spending nearly a day in the work. ‘‘All right, now,” said they to
the gentleman, “you’ll have no further trouble.’’ But the bell-hangers j j
had barely reached the street when all the bells began to ring again, j)
and with astonishing violence. j (
The next evening at eleven o’clock the invisible bell-ringers began 0
their clanging music again, and continued it half an hour before reach- !/
ing the closing note. For two evenings they acted only as they were j (
acted upon by the tangible fingers of doubting Thomases. It was i)
thought that electricity had completed its work, and there would be ! (
no more trouble ; but that thought was a mistake. In the morning 1(
the beds of the children were found moved across the room, the loca- }
tion of other pieces of furniture changed to different parts of the room,
the pictures broken down, and the cords cut. The children denied i \
that they knew anything about it, with the exception of the eldest, i)
who said he had heard loud raps around the room. This disturbance i(
■was repeated three evenings, when the children were removed into the jv
parents’ room, as they were all too much frightened to sleep in their j)
own apartment. . j(
The next evening, however, they returned to it, and they were just [ j
comfortably turned in for the night, when the piano began to play. |)
They opened the door and listened, and it played most beautifully, j(
accompanying a lady’s voice in song. They then went down stairs j|
and opened the parlour doors, when the music ceased, and the instru- jl
ment was found locked, with no indications that any one was near or ij
had been there. For five nights peace and quiet reigned within, the |;
children occupying the room adjoining that of the parents, the door j)
being left open between the apartments. One little boy went to bed K
on the sixth night at eight o’clock, and he had not been there long j)
before the family saw the bed moving across the room ; and loud rap- j(
pings and other singular noises were heard on the furniture. The \(
little fellow was taken into the parents’ chamber again, when an in- \\
visible power picked him up, lifting him three feet, and carried him !(
along and placed him back in his bed. The terrified parents were now h
satisfied that it was not done by any human agency. i)
'While meditating as to what should be done, the family standing in ||
a group in one corner of the room, they all saw what appeared to be a ii
little boy emerge from the fireplace. He looked natural, but thin and i)
pale. He went toward the door, and then vanished before their eyes, j (
This frightened them more than ever. They made their beds on the H
floor, and all slept together. j)
In the morning the gentleman related the whole occurrence to an old K
friend, and that person said he had heard of a gentleman in the city of |)
the name of Charles Tuckett, who was posted in spiritual phenomena, u
and he would hunt him up and see if he could solve the mysterious is
problem. Seeing the latter as per agreement, Mr. Tuckett, with a |j
clairvoyant and trance medium (the beautiful daughter of one of our |(
wealthy citizens), and two gentlemen (not Spiritualists) repaired to the js
disturbed residence and agitated family at eight o’clock the following j)
evening. A circle was formed, consisting of the persons just mentioned j(
and the family. : 1)
The medium soon being under “spiritual control,” said ; “ I see a j)
lady by you, madam. She is tall, with dark hair, and says she is your |(
sister. A little boy is holding her hand.” f.f 1 >
The sister-spirit then took control of the medium, and said—
“ Sister: When I died you promised to take care of my two little
children. You neglected them, and this one now with me in the spirit
world died from neglect. It is the same little fellow you saw in your
room. You placed them among strangers and they were cruelly treated.
This one died, and the other is being used cruelly by the persons you
have placed him with. I desire you to bring him away to-morrow and
take care of him as one of your own, as you promised me. If you do not
I will trouble you more than you ever dream. Your own little boy is a
medium, through whom I can operate. If you take care of my little
boy I will trouble you no more, but will be around you to impress your
mind with all that is good and lovely, and will be a guardian angel to
you and yours, greeting you when you cross the river to where I am.
Teach my boy to love me and to be a good and true man. Good-bye.'—
Your Sister.”
The medium came out of her trance perfectly ignorant of what had
transpired.
The boy was brought away, and there has been no trouble of any
kind at the haunted mansion since.
(Korrespontjence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposi tl
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be keptby the writers."]
A SEANCE WITH MR. FLETCHER.
Sir,—I desire to report the results of a stance held at my house
some time ago. Mr. J. W. Fletcher, the medium, and ten sitters were
present.
The seance commenced at eight o’clock, each of us joining hands.
In a few minutes the medium became entranced; a beautiful invoca¬
tion followed, after which Judge Edmonds took control and delivered
an address on the subject of “ Life in the Spirit World,” and answered
questions respecting reincarnation and other subjects. Winona, an
Indian spirit, then took possession and gave several of the sitters tests
of spirit identity, some of them of the most conclusive kind. For
myself, I can conscientiously say I never had so clear and direct a test
since I first began my inquiries into Spiritualism. He gave me the
Christian names, the age, and the time of year he died of my son who
passed on to the higher life nearly fourteen years ago. Altogether it
was a most successful seance, and gave general satisfaction ; so much so
that several of the sitters requested me to make arrangements with Mr.
Fletcher for another seance.
Mr. Fletcher is not aware that I am making this report. I think,
however, it is only justice to him that I should do so.
Thos. Wilks.
The Library, Green-lanes, Newington-green, London.
SPIRITUALISM AND MESMERISM IN DUBLIN.
Sir,—Almost everywhere I have come in contact with people in this
city, I have especially noticed, when the conversation turned to
Mesmerism, and then to Spiritualism, a general belief in the former,
and strong desires expressed to see and know more about it—the work
done by the late good Archbishop Whately not being forgotten. With
reference to Spiritualism, notwithstanding the general scepticism mani¬
fested on the surface, there is also an under current of inquiry about the
subject. I have attended three stances up to the time of writing, and
I find that Spiritualism is steadfastly and surely making headway here.
It was remarked by me in The Spiritualist a short time before the Con¬
ference of the British National Association of Spiritualists in 1875,
that Spiritualism would here take hold of the educated classes first, and
from them work its way through the masses. Only those who are
acquainted with the people here know the rigid bigotry that exists in
connection with religious and sectarian questions, and the fact that
Spiritualism is taking hold of the people of influence shows at once the
wisdom of the controllers of the movement. I find that my then
prediction is now substantially correct, and although not at liberty at
present to make use of names, I have noticed many in connection with
the scholastic establishments of this city of learning, ready and anxious
to make a quicker acquaintance with the subject, and a desire to be
introduced to seances.
Good mediums for physical manifestations, tests, raps in the day¬
light, would do well here ; while the inspirational powers of Messrs.
Morse and Colville, lecturing on subjects chosen by the audience, would
carry the city by storm. I had the pleasure of attending a stance on
Tuesday morning, at which the principal manifestations were raps in
the daylight, distinct and intelligent. Questions were answered, and
messages spelled out accurately ; the medium was an elderly lady. I
have seen some curious drawings by this lady that are very interesting,
for two reasons; first, because the lady was over sixty years of age
before she commenced to draw, under influence, never having the
slightest ability or desire to sketch or draw before; secondly, because
the gift came to her about three years ago, when ill, confined to bed.
It proved an occupation to the mind and a source of amusement, and
her recovery from a very serious illness was mainly due to this. The
drawings bear all those strange metaphorical, symbolical characteristics
peculiar to those I have seen done by other mediums elsewhere,
although this lady has not until lately either come into contact with
other mediums or seen other drawings. At a subsequent seance we had
some excellent tests and trance speaking. It is to be hoped that the'
day is not far distant when the superstitions of the Irish peasant will
give place to the sterner facts of modern Spiritualism—belief replaced
by knowledge, priestcraft by science. One of the popular beliefs, if not
perfectly true, is really beautiful in conception, and indicates the ground
Oct. 5, 1877.
THE SPXKITUALIST.
165
there is here for sowing the truths of Spiritualism—“ When the child
smiles in its sleep an angel whispers to it.”
The articles which have recently appeared in Saunders' newspaper
have excited considerable attention and comment; as much, if not more
so, than the able article on Spiritualism which appeared in the columns
of the Nonconformist some two years ago, by Professor Barrett, of the
Boyal College of Science, Ireland.
At present I am engaged in giving a series of mesmeric seances before
some of the leading men—literary, medical, and scientific. How far
they will be useful nr successful remains to be told, and by others.
To make these seances more interesting and convincing, in no instance
have I seen the subject before the seance commences. It is intended
that a record of the various methods used shall be made, to see how
far they agree with Dr. Carpenter’s “ dominant idea ” or Mr. Serjeant
Cox’s “self-induced” theories. J. W. Coates.
Dublin.  
MATERIALISATION OB' SPIRIT HEADS. NO. XII.—PHOTOGRAPHY IN THE DARK.
Sir.—Sept. 15.—This has been, thus far, on the whole, a poor week
for us. The “power” has been never good, and sometimes null.
Dr. Nichols, of Malvern, has been here. I rather rashly ventured
to take him up to our seance, or rather to give him rendezvous to
meet me there. What I meant to do was to introduce him to the
Count, and then consult with the latter whether or not we could
venture to take him in to the seance. But as we were a little
behind time, and acted somewhat in a hurry, this was not fully
carried out, and, in point of fact, Dr. Nichols went in to the
seance, with the Count’s kind acquiescence. Dr. Nichols is so good a
Spiritualist, and so good a man, and, as I knew, was so well known
to John King, and had recently been having such fine seances at Malvern
—as recorded in your columns—that I took him in, notwithstanding
the prohibition we have had against bringing anybody without previous
notification and consent. The result was rather disastrous. We got
nothing at all, though he had some signals in the dark corresponding to
what had been pre-announced to him at Malvern. John King neither
showed nor spoke. He afterwards wrote—“ John O' Sullivan has
hroiken my rule, and, therefore, I could do nothing." But he added that
he was very glad to see Dr. Nichols, and formally invited him to come
next day. And next day there was a tolerable seance. Now whether
“ could not ” meant “ would not ”—or whether really the “ could not ”
was literally exact, by reason of some fine mysterious delicacies in what
are called ‘‘ the conditions ”—I do not know. Dr. Nichols will probably
write you his own account of what passed, and, therefore, I do not.
Though he too will, I know, have to suppress one curious point in it
(harmless enough, however), because John King himself made a secret
of it. I certainly shall not give rise to another “ scrimmage ” by pub¬
lishing it.
Yesterday occurred a something worth noting. Things have been
ripening for some time towards the result of our getting photographs as
we have got moulds and busts. There have been various talks about
different lights for that purpose—about our present vaduum-tube light-—
about a certain variation of it for photographic purposes—and about
open sunlight—and about better photographic apparatus. We have on
hand a small gimcrack camera, of the kind called “ scenographic,” and
some of the sensitised plates connected with it, though these are now
old. Well, yesterday, John King directed us to try the experiment,
after the seance, of putting up that machine with a sensitised plate, in
the dark. He wanted to “ £n/ an experiment." We supposed that he
meant himself to stand before it. It was done accordingly, with two
successive plates. We drove straight to a photographer’s, to get the
plates “ developed,” the plates being, of course, shut up in the usual
rayless prison box. When developed they proved conclusively that
there had been something there which had acted on the sensitised plates.
By rights, according to the common laws of photography, the uniform
whiteness of the collodion ought not to have been changed or affected,
no ray of light having existed in the room. Yet on one of them there
were vague confused clouds, with an outline of something suggestive of a
head; while on the other was a loose cloudy column of darkness, indi¬
cating a standing figure without outlines, together with a strange white
transversal band at about its mid-height. The photographer, to whom
no explanations Were given, and who was only told that the plates had
been simply exposed in the absolute black dark, was amazed, and could
only say that, in the absence of light, there must have been something
capable of exerting some chemical action upon the sensitised plates.
When this was told to John King this morning, he said that the photo¬
grapher could not know, and never would know, how it was done. He
told us to continue ; that this had only been a first attempt; but not to
do it to-morrow, as the weather had turned so bad. And he said that
it was not himself, but Angela, who had stood.
We have interchanged the remark that we had much rather they
would go on with the moulds and busts, instead of thus diverging off
into photography. Eleven busts, by name, have been promised, and as
yet we have only three, and are longing for others. But the Count’s
system is to let “ them ” do as they please; to take and be thankful; to
accept and not to ask, still less to demand, even when promise has given
a claim to fulfilment. And photographic impressions in the absolute
black dark are no small fact in themselves, whether regarded in the
Spiritualistic or the scientific aspect. In two or three days we shall
have a better machine, and plates more highly sensitised. I do not
despair of being able to send you over a photograph of “ Angela ” (taken
in the dark), to be put alongside of those you already possess of her
moulded bust.
To-day occurred this small thing worth noting. Our large musical
box had got quite out of order, so as to have become intolerable. John
King took it in hand, and there in the dark (to us) he lifted the outer
and the inner lids, and we could hear his fingers working about the
machinery for some five to ten minutes, after which he wound it up, and
started it off again apparently all right. He said it was not yet entirely
I right, but that, if he had had the power to stay a little longer, he would
] have made it so. It is all right except at one point where there is a
] hitch in the passage from one of the six airs to the succeeding one, at
| which there is some confusion in the notes, and an improper violent
jump takes place. It is evident that our dark is light to them. We
| congratulated him on his successful work, but he said he did not want to
)| go into the watch and clock making business. It did not seem to be will
II work, but regular finger work. He took out one piece and handed it to
'I me, and afterwards asked for it back. As our dark is light to them, it
11 is easily conceivable how our light may be darkness, and a hindrance to
M them in their manifestations. It was certainly curious for us to witness
h a piece of mechanical watch-work of that nature done by fingers in the
] dark. They touched my hand once or twice, accidentally. “ Keep your
ij hand down on the table," he said.
M The arrangements concerted with Mr. Boyard, of Brussels, for a
i photograph of John King, to be taken by him through the mediumship
(j of Williams, and also on another point (see Spiritualist, of 7th inst.,
)j page 117), have fallen through for the present, as Williams has found
(| himself unable to get to Brussels, though he may do so in a few weeks,
i Sept. 11th.—But all that has yet been done in the way of spirit-
) photography is cast into the shade by what we have just now obtained.
| Yesterday, in pursuance of John King’s directions, the Count again set
j up his poor little scenographic camera in the absolute black dark. He
) and Firman stood behind it, holding hands. I was in the next room,
j separated only by a door, and had to mark and call the time. The first
j trial was to be of five minutes, the second of three. The plates were of
)i dry collodion; which ordinarily, as I am told, requires seven or eight
j | minutes of exposure under sunlight, sometimes ten to twelve. After the
j | two attempted impressions had been taken, and the plates secured in
) ] the usual way from any possible intrusion of a ray of light, John King
(| wrote that they should be taken at once to a photographer, and that he
ji thought we should have a “ surprise." It being Sunday, we could not
) j find any photographer’s place open; but after I had parted from the
si Count he chanced to find an operator accidentally, at that of Fontaine,
)| Boulevard des Capucines—a well-known first-class photographer; and
) i there the plates were developed. The result is shown in the following
l\ note which he at once wrote to me: “My dear O’Sullivan—Two words
j I to tell you, the most complete success! Two superb portraits of John
)j King (developed at Fontaine’s). The first, standing; the second also
)j standing, with his lamp in his hand, and the portraits of the Countess
) | and myself suspended from his neck. I write you these two words,
11 knowing the great pleasure they will give you.”
) | The Count had, of course, seen only the negatives. It seems he (very
)| naturally) mistook a something circular in the picture for John King’s
] I “ lamp,” for John King explained to-day that it was not his lamp, but
j his trumpet. He has, in fact, a commander’s brass speaking-trumpet,
) long ago given by the Count, with the aid of which he usually concen-
( trates his voice. The pictures of the Countess and Count referred to
j are photographs, the latter small, the former much larger, which have
) been given him at his request, attached to a long blue ribbon, and
( which he generally shows us when he presents himself, suspended from
his neck, just below his long and heavy black beard—sometimes holding
) them out to attract our attention. I have not yet seen the pictures, as
I the plates are at the photographer’s to be printed, but hope to do so
(| before posting this letter. The Count says that in the negative the out-
)| lines looked good and strong, and they seemed to be good photographs.
II The operator was amazed when told by the Count that they had been
{| taken in the total dark, by himself, on his own fresh plates. ‘ ‘ I never
) j deny a fact because I do not understand it,” was the sensible reply;
(j “ there must have been something to exert chemical action.’’ He was
| ] not told that it was a spirit that had posed.
51 We talked the matter over with John King this morning, and the
(j following is the substance of what he said about the modus operandi:
U “In ordinary photography what produces the effect on the sensitised
) | plate is not the rays you see, but rays you do not see.* It is they that exert
{I the chemical action. They exist in the dark as well as in the light, but
"j | in the full light they are able to exert a much stronger action than with-
)j out it. Now we are able, in a way I cannot explain to you, to give
|! those invisible rays a stronger power, and to cast them on the figure to
) I be photographed, thence to be reflected to the plate. And this is pre-
)| cisely the same thing as in the ordinary photography. The same rays
(! act on the sensitised collodion in the one case as in the other, only we
); strengthen them, so as to enable them to act chemically in the dark,
j I which otherwise they would not have sufficient strength to do. But I
i had first to take some lessons before I could do it. [These italics of em-
! phasis are mine.] We will now take all further photographs in the
dark. It is simpler and easier for us. Bring some more plates, and
I have them more highly sensitised.” This was the substance of what he
I said, in part consecutively, and partly in dialogue with us, and he spoke
) \ with great lucidity. He afterwards asked the Count to shake hands
(| with him, ‘‘ in token of your approbation," and he shook hands with us
j all round (a gentleman from Bordeaux being present, to whom he also
)j showed himself, by his lamp, very finely). The Count asked whether
jj they should try again to-day.—"No, there is not power enough. To¬
ri morrow."—“To-morrow I shall have a larger and better instrument,
)| and more solid,” said the Count.—“ I hope so, for this one is very
? j rickety, and I had a good deal of trouble with it."
j | I remarked that this was not the first time impressions had been taken
in the dark, Mr. Slater having obtained them in London, and then with
(| his (J. King’s) help, as we had been told; and also in America, I
ji believed. “ Yes, but this is the first time they have been obtained so
j i strongly and satisfactorily."
\ | * This does not necessarily, as ’would at first sight appear to be the case, contradict
j I well-established facts, the most active photographic rays being in the visible part of the
(I blue end of the spectrum, and not in the ultra-violet. It may mean that rays or
(i powers of which science knows nothing extend over portions of the visible and invisible
(: parts of the spectrum.—Ed.
166
THE SPIKITUALTST.
Oct. 5, 1877.
We now hope and think we shall get them of all the band of our spirit
friends. “ We all, you and we” said John King, “make one circle.”
I rather retract what I have said above about regretting our diverging
for the moment from moulded busts into photography. We shall get all
that has been promised, we do not doubt. All in their own time, and in
tbeir own way. And that is best, our human impatience to the contrary
notwithstanding.
1 have been to Fontaine’s. They had not yet printed from the
plates (French promises), and I could only see the negatives. The
figures exhibited are very majestic. The outlines are not quite so sharp
as I had expected to see. Still the faces and features and outlines of
form and draperies are quite distinct, though with some shadowiness.
They are very impressive, and very marvellous. You will soon see and
judge for yourselves, and compare them with the other existing and
well-known portraits of “ John King,” which, after all, we know to be
a mere pseudonym, varied with different mediums and in different
countries.
Would it not seem to follow from the above that the chemical rays do
not issue from the sun, but from the “ bodies ” of “ matter ” themselves ?
For it is certain that no ray of sunlight, or of artificial light, existed in
that small tight-closed room, yet John King speaks of the chemical rays
existing there, which they had to strengthen by reason of the dark, i.e,,
of the absence of solar light.
I beg pardon of “ M. A. (Oxon.) ” if I accidentally, in a recent com¬
munication, used a personal name instead of his well and widely known
nom de plume. It was an inadvertence; I had not before me at the time
the excellent paper of his to which I referred. If I was mistaken in my
identification of that honoured pseudonym, and in my supposition that
all motive for its original adoption had got worn out and had passed
away, I repeat that I regret the slip of a hurried pen, and apologise for
any breach of literary etiquette. Anyhow, the gentleman thus named,
or any other Spiritualist in England, might be proud to be confounded
with “ M. A., Oxon.” I say this, while still fully adhering to my con¬
viction of the great value and opportuneness of the book I suggested.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
2, Rue Solferino, Paris.  
PROBLEMS.
Sir,—I am familiar with examination papers. I have answered
many, and set more. I am familiar, too, with requests of all kinds
from persons in all parts of the globe, that I would be pleased to explain
things in general in a few plain words, or to elucidate at sight some
mysteries that I hope to be permitted to look into some ages hence. But
Mr. La Roy Sunderland’s examination paper is about the “ largest order”
I ever received. He must excuse me if I say that I am a busy man, with
neither time nor inclination to write a volume of dissertations on his
problems, even if I could understand them. Some are quite unintel¬
ligible to me. What, for instance, is meant by “ the personal sexual
identity of an invisibility ” ? Some I cannot answer, seeing that they
deal with matters which neither he nor I can understand in this sphere
of existence. Many are so stated as to imply a fallacy, or an assumption
which needs proof. Some I should have thought that a little expe¬
rience would throw light upon. When I come to the proper place in
my contemplated volume of Researches I shall try to deal with these
and kindred matters. Meantime, a man who has been “ fifty years in
the field of psychology,” forty years acquainted with the subject, and
has “witnessed all the phases of mediumship” since the early days of
the Hydesville rappings, is surely as capable of answering his own
problems as I am. M. A. Oxon,
PROVINCIAL NOTES.
Sir,—The various centres of Spiritualism in the Provinces have not
of late displayed any marked activity. As the autumn approaches
fresh life will appear, and will become more vigorous as winter un¬
folds. In some places a marked decline has occurred, a decline that
will not admit of reaction for some time. In other localities the stream
flows with unabated force and volume.
The experiences of the past year have not been unmitigated bless¬
ings. The enemies to the advance of psychological science have not
laboured in vain. Still, so marvellous is the recuperative power of
Spiritualism that, seemingly, disasters feed it in the long run, and
rebuffs make it more robust.
The progress of Spiritualism is assisted by the efforts of two dis- I
tinct classes. One class see in it a merely phenomenal question; the
other—and a more numerous body—see in it at once a powerful
stimulus to moral and spiritual life, as well as a series of phenomenal
facts. This latter section is by far the greatest in the Provinces,
Spiritualism being with them at once a consciousness of the presence j
of the departed, an inspiration from the higher life, and a glorious j
philosophy of spiritual democracy that speaks of the love of God, I
flowing to all His creatures. Hence it is that provincial Spiritualism
presents itself for public notice chiefly in the form of Sunday services
for devotional purposes.
Let the reader follow your correspondent on a tour of inspection.
Birmingham, as being nearest London, shall be the starting point. The |
Birmingham Spiritualists have a local society that, up to a recent j
date, held Sunday evening meetings in the Templar Hall, Lady wood- !
road. The locality was quite unsuited for the purpose. It was too j
far from the centre of the town, consequently the attendance, as a rule,
was not good. There is also not such complete harmony as could be j
desired. During the summer months, while the regular meetings are
suspended, open-air meetings are held, and the facts and philosophy of i
Spiritualism are thus placed before the multitude, the people listening
attentively, and respectfully, as a rule. In the neighbouring town of
Walsall, Spiritualism is conducted in more privacy. Home circles,
the private development of media, and personal conversations on the
subject, being the means of spreading and upholding Spiritualism j
usually adopted. The same is the case in Wolverhampton. In the
latter town, and the surrounding district, many influential gentlemen
are inquiring into the matter, and, in a quiet and unostentatious
manner, Spiritualism is surely gaining ground.
Manchester possesses a good society, holding regular meetings every
Sunday in the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-street. While not specially
remarkable for vigour, the Manchester Society has done much valuable
service in bringing the subject before the inhabitants and establishing
a central place of meeting, with a good library attached, for local
Spiritualists. The towns round Manchester, such as Stockport, Hyde,
Hayfield, and Macclesfield, do not call for any special notice. They
are not characterised by much, if any, public display ; they feel their
best plan is to push on the work quietly. On the occasion of any
extra event in Manchester, detachments of visitors from the above
towns pour into Manchester to participate in the proceedings.
Rochdale at one time was very active, but local divisions occurring
the activity lapsed, and no public meetings are now held. In Oldham
the public work of Spiritualism has fallen somewhat into abeyance.
Meetings are not well attended, and the society’s managers have been
much divided over personal matters. In Burnley, Wigan, Bolton, and
Bury Spiritualism is well known, though at present it does not excite
much public interest; but in such cases it is unsafe to estimate the
position or influence of Spiritualism from its lack of purely public
expression. Privately many are quite satisfied as to the truth of our
facts, but from position or family interest, and sometimes a lack of
moral stamina, they play Peter; and deny their Christ.
I will send you hereafter some of the causes of the ebbs and flows of
Spiritualism in various localities, for ebb and flow it unquestionably
does. Scientific prejudice operates; at times clerical intolerance and
social obloquy are brought to bear against us, and to combat such forces
successfully, it is imperative our own weapons and defences be in the
best order in every department. We must then honestly meet defects,
skilfully repair every breach, zealously guard all weak places, and
success will be more easily attained. X.
THE ASTROLOGICAL LOOK-OUT.
To the Editor of the “ Pall Mall Gazette."
Sir,—On the 17th of July, when the anti-English party were all agog
in the expectation of the speedy collapse of the national defence in
Turkey, you allowed me to give a somewhat unusual reason for a
contrary anticipation. If the forecast with which I concluded my
letter had been written, like the majority of prophecies, after instead of
before the event, it would have been difficult to condense more truth in
fewer words. “ If we find obstinate and sanguinary battles to ensue
next month, with no remarkable advantage to either party, although the
balance of evil is against the invader,” I then wrote, “ call me Prospero.”
And I specially pointed out the danger of interrupted communications,
and of the assailing of fortified posts, on the part of the Russians. In
fact, this anticipation was like a short summary of recent events. Few
of your readers can have failed to observe the fiery splendour of the
crimson torch which the planet Mars has nightly held forth since I
wrote. It is, to say the least of it, a remarkable coincidence that the
most brilliant astronomical discovery made since the detection of
Neptune, one which has shown the existence of a systematic regularity
in the solar system that few astronomers anticipated, and has raised
Mars to the dignity of an orb attended by satellites, should have been
made during the raging of the most sanguinary war on which that
planet has ever shed its beams. But many observers who are not
astronomers have asked how it is that Saturn, the more slowly moving
planet, has for the last two months become more and more distant from
Mars. The reason is that the relative position of the three planets,
Saturn, Mars, and the Earth, in their respective orbits round the sun is
such as to make the apparent motion of the two former retrograde.
Thus Mars, the more rapid, gaining on Saturn, leaves that planet
instead of approaching it in the usual way. The retrograde movement
of Saturn will continue until about the 7th of November. Mars
retrogrades until the 7th of October, when the two planets will have
attained their maximum distance apart (during this portion of their
course) of 6 deg. 26 min. Mars then, after an apparent immobility of
three days, will approach Saturn, and on the 3rd of November will be
in the same degree of the zodiac as that planet. The Earth, Mars,
and Saturn will then be in a direct line, as far as longitude goes ; and
the two outer planets will be within half a degree of the same latitude.
The conjunction will thus be so close that the planets will form an
object much under the size of a small comet. The astrological import
of the phenomenon is one of the greatest menace. The chief difficulty
which opposes detail (as far as my modest acquirements go) is the want
of knowledge of the exact time for which to set up a figure. If we
take noon on the 3rd of November (as I took noon on the former
occasion) as the time for the inquiry, Jupiter is applying to the
ascendant, which may intimate that the worst of the crisis is for one
party nearly over. There is a remarkable conjunction of Herschel with
the descending node of the moon, on the cusp of the Eighth House,
which seems to indicate some unexpected death of a nature to convulse
Europe. Astrological rules forbid the adept to predict death ; and
perhaps the hecatombs offered to the Moloch of Russian ambition may
satisfy this part of the forecast. The conjunction of the two malefics
is on the House of Wealth. This may be taken to indicate financial
collapse, or perhaps the failure of supplies of food and ammunition. If
I pursue the subject, I shall perhaps make converts whose faith in
astrology may be more robust and less guarded than my own. But
whether as a physical phenomenon of unprecedented rarity, or as a
relic of an asserted science long venerated and perhaps too ignorantly
despised, let me commend to the observation of your readers the
aspect of the heavens on the 3rd of November next. Prospero.
September 19th.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
167
Oct. 5, 1877.
THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO J j
SPIRITUALISM. | I
The usual Thursday evening meeting of the Dalston Association of | J|
Inquirers into Spiritualism was held on the 20th September, at the i |j
Society’s rooms, 53, Sigden-road, Dalston, London, Mr. Colville having | )|
kindly consented to give an inspirational address to the members and j >j
their friends. j (j
Mr. G. R. Tapp, having been elected to preside, said:—Ladies and j n
Gentlemen—We shall have the pleasure this evening of listening to a i jj
discourse by Mr. Colville, and as I see that we have here strangers not | (i
acquainted with the nature of the addresess given, a few words of In
explanation would not be inappropriate. In mediumship like that of ij;
Mr. Colville, spirits control the sensitive by rendering him unconscious, i (j
or partly unconscious. His is a phase of mediumship, more or less m
developed, which is known as trance mediumship. I shall make no n$|
remarks as to what the spirits may be going to say, but shall leave j I
them to speak for themselves, and you will thus be able to better judge I Ij
the evidence. I may mention that, as Mr. Colville does not choose his j ji
own subject, Mr. Ely ton will give to the audience pieces of paper; if jll
you will please propose various subjects, I will put them to the meeting, j |j
and the audience can then determine which of them it shall be. This j f j
mode of selection does away with any idea of collusion, and the spirits | (l
communicating through Mr. Colville always willingly accede to whatever j >i
is chosen. I f |
Two subjects were proposed—(l) jjj What is the Best Way of Detecting j U
Mediumship in any Individual ?” and (2) ‘‘What Evidence can be | |j
Adduced to Prove that the Manifestations are Produced by Disembodied j r!
Human Spirits ? ” The majority of the audience was in favour of the | j
latter question, which, therefore, became the subject of the medium’s | jj
address. j (j
Mr. Colville prefaced his inspirational discourse with the following j 1]
invocation:— i jj
“O Thou Infinite Spirit, Thou Creative Intelligence, Thou Divine in
and All-pervading Soul, Thou, who fillest the universe with Thy glory ! j (l
We, Thy creatures, whom Thou hast endowed with sentient lives, with j jj
intelligent being, would offer unto Thee our praises and thanksgivings j jj
for all the priceless boons, for all the inestimable benefits which Thou j ji
hast conferred upon us from the earliest dawn of our mortal existence, j ji
We would praise Thee, not only for that which Thou hast bestowed upon | U
us individually, but for those blessings which Thou hast conferred upon | ji
the human race in every age and to every nation. Oh, Thou abundant | jj
Light, Thou omnipotent and omniscient Father of Lights, we pray that j ji
we, Thy children, may be endowed with a desire for truth, and with j j
aspirations after heavenly love, and that thus we may be one with the j j|
angels in that bright and glorious realm to which the disembodied spirits I jj
of humanity who have passed through all spheres, having profited by all j j|
experience, have been exalted. May our aspirations( reach those fair j jj
and beauteous abodes, where Thy praise occupies every being, and where j jj
worship of Thee is continually expressed in lives of love and usefulness, j jj
in harmony with Thy laws. Oh, may every soul, filled with love j j|
divine, offer unto Thee, both now and ever, acceptable worship, even the j j|
worship of spirit and truth, and which shall express itself in love for I jj
Thee, and for all mankind. Amen.’’ - I jj
You desire that we should address you this evening upon “What I |
Proof is there that the Spirits who Communicate are Disembodied jjj
Human Beings ?” You are doubtless aware that Spiritualism is as old j jl
as humanity. Spiritualism has been known in every age and in every j j j
nation. At every epoch in the world’s history there have been those jjj
who were endowed with spiritual powers, and the oldest mediums who jjj
have been recognised by posterity may be said to be the anchorites and jjj
recluses of Hindostan. In Egypt, in Persia, and in various other lands j j j
which are celebrated in history, you will read of those who were specially | jj
endowed with spiritual power, and in whatever sacred book you produce, jjj
you will find that there, is a continuous vein of spiritual inspiration jji
running throughout the records of every age and in every nation. j jj
You desire to know what evidence there is that the spirits who com- | jj
municate are the disembodied spirits of humanity, and while we say that j jj
the proofs given are undoubted and undeniable, that no argument jjj
against this is tenable and no other hypothesis is tenable, yet we do not I jj
take up that ground, or assert that all spirits which have communicated jjj
with man in every age, and in every clime, have necessarily been human j j
spirits. For there are spirits in every state of development, from the jj
Lord himself down to the spirits which inhabit the lowest forms of jj
material life. There are gradations and spheres of spiritual existence . jj
You are doubtless aware that Plato and Socrates of old are said to j j
have communicated with their guides, and a belief in spirits is almost as j j
old as humanity. j j
One of the most ancient of the philosophies promulgated in the world j j
has given forth the following thesis:—“That there is a good spirit and ij
an evil spirit attendant upon every man, and that the good spirit may j j
be termed the angel and the bad the demon ; and it is believed that these j j
angels and demons are separate in existence from any which inhabit the I j
human form. That the good spirits are those who have passed through j j
life nobly, but that the dark spirits are those who have lived upon earth j j
sensual or ignoble lives.” You are also aware that in other philosophies jj
known to the ancients, four primary elements, as they were ij
termed, have been recognised, viz., air, earth, fire, and water, jj
and that these were the only elements once known. Men then jj
supposed that nymphs, sylphs, and undines dwelt in the water, and j j
salamanders in the fire, and in these days you are told that these spirits | j
are capable of communicating with man, and are capable of gaining the j j
mastery, or he is capable of gaining the mastery over them, as the case ; j
may be. If you have investigated alchemy or various other sciences i c
known to the ancients, and if you are acquainted with the fakeers,
sorcerers, or workers of magic, you are doubtless aware that
they almost invariably believed that there are spirits inferior to
man, who will gain the mastery over him if he does not gain the mastery
over them, that these spirits can have dominion over man, even as he
has dominion over the animals. We would freely admit that there is great
probability, if not an absolute certainty, that spirits are communicating
even in your own midst, who are not human spirits, but who will ulti¬
mately become human spirits. Yet if you look around you in nature, if
you take the dog or the horse and examine the intelligence it displays,
you see there is nothing like human intelligence. However close may
be its proximity to that of man, there is always a wide chasm between
the intelligence animals display and that of the human race. Now, suppos¬
ing I were unable to see, and supposing I heard something strike against
this table, that I heard something move about and make some curious
noise, I should not be satisfied; I should know that there was some
form of life manifesting itself, but as to the character of that life I should
not be able to decide. And if some of these spirits which are outside of
yourselves, and who inhabit the vast realm which surrounds your
spiritual globe, produce manifestations which are inferior to the ordinary
average of human intelligence, then I say you are not warranted in your
opinion that they are human spirits. There are various orders of
human spirits, and some have been servants of man. The fakeers have
under their more potent control orders of intelligence, which may be of
a meaner type prior to its ultimation in the human, and after the ulti-
mation in the human takes place, then is the divine soul of man im¬
parted, the divine soul which shall not be lost, destroyed, or absorbed.
We say that there are all phases of spirit life, and your cog, which has
been devoted to you, may for a considerable time after the death of the
body retain his identity, and it is possible that your dog or your horse
may return to you in the same form, familiar to your sight and senses.
Clairvoyants have actually beheld dogs and other animals in the other
world, and these, no doubt, have been spirits which have not yet de¬
veloped into the higher order of human spirits; perchance this might
have been, as Swedenborg might tell you, “ man resuming the forms of
animals in the world of spirits.” For spirits who are developed, are
capable of producing at will other forms, even as the painter is capable
of producing on his canvas the ideas which are floating in his mind.
There are secret societies in existence to-day, yea, in your own centres
of civilisation, where elementary spirits have been evoked, and where
their apparitions have been seen, and when we tell you this, we shall
doubtless state that which will be laughed to scorn even by Spiritualists.
We might say that Freemasonry deals with external doings at the
present time. It certainly did not at the time of its formation, and
in ancient Egypt, in Persia, even among the Jews, there were those
who were Freemasons who practised arts of sorcery and witchcraft,
and had under their command a vast number of intelligences, which were
submundane. You are told that there are edicts in your Scripture for¬
bidding sorcery and witchcraft, yet these were but the decrees of an
arbitrary ruler, who desired to suppress all intelligent inquiry. In
many cases communication with these spirits was established by a
people who were in so low a moral and spiritual condition, that they
became subjects of sport and ridicule to the unseen powers, which by the
superior and regular mind would have been reduced to the capacity of
servants.
We think you will be prepared to admit that, connected with the
modern manifestations, an intelligence expresses itself which has the
attributes of humanity—consequently, is a human intelligence. Con¬
cerning the spirits who so communicate we would say, follow the
injunction of the apostle Paul, to “ try the spirits,” and prove to your¬
selves, and for yourselves, of what orders they are ; study what intelli¬
gence they display, and what powers of mind they manifest. As regards
manifestations of physical force, if we have no more than the levitation
of musical instruments and tables, then we say that you have no proof
that the spirits are the spirits of the departed, because it does not
require the intelligence of man to knock about material objects, or to
produce physical movements. These manifestations are produced by
some force which men of science cannot explain, and which baffles the
philosopher in his researches. The agency of electricity has been
entirely excluded, and yet the phenomena occur; the law of gravitation
has apparently been suspended, not suspended in reality, but some
other law has been called into action by some other intelligence outside
the circle. Perchance this table moves, and you know not what force
moves it; the raps are heard, and you seek to enter into communication
with the “force;” and you say to this spirit, or to this force—
“ If you wish to answer me ‘ yes,’ give three raps; and if ‘ no,’
oneand if the intelligent powers understand and comprehend
you, even then you have no evidence that human spirits are
communicating. But, supposing that you are seeking to enter
into communication with some known one gone from earth ; that the
name of a dearly loved relative or friend is spelt out, that tests are
given which place beyond doubt that you are entering into communica¬
tion with your departed relative—why be so absurd as to invent a theory
that this is done h}' other spirits other than those of the departed ?
Attack the problem till you know that your own relative is communicat¬
ing with you; that the spiritual telegraphy is complete; that the
link exists which unites you with the loved one who has gone before,
and that your friend or your relative who has passed away, with an un¬
dying love is seeking to convince you of his identity. Then, we say, be
reasonable, be rational, accept the fact that your friend is communicating
with you, although you are unable to touch him. The simple giving in
to the facts, and to this simple solving of the problem, is the most satis¬
factory, most rational, and most comprehensible course. There is a
higher phase of mediumship than intuition and clairvoyance—which both
give you evidence of the existence of your departed friends; there are
other sensitives whose intuitive faculties let them know that their friends
are with them again. Clairvoyants can sometimes describe to you the
168
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 5, 1877.
spirit who is communicating with you, and you can, through his eyes, j
behold the loved form once more, clothed even as when the change [
which is called “ death ” came upon it. I
You, through clairvoyance, are capable of beholding the communi¬
cating intelligence, and when you behold your friend Surely you will not
doubt his identity. And in the highest phase of materialisation you j
even have the spirit form developed; you even have the spirit clothed
with the symbols of that which it wore when upon earth; it is then ab¬
surd to seek a far-fetched explanation when you have a reasonable one
close beside you. It is possible to write volumes, and yet never to
exhaust this comprehensive scheme.
We do not say that the spirits manifesting on all occasions are neces¬
sarily human. Yet 'we must say that a spirit must be equal to that of
man to produce manifestations, displaying not lower than human intelli¬
gence. Perchance spirits are operating capable of materialising the
symbols of their own forms ; in such cases, in these forms you behold the |
symbols of your long lost friend, and if this form speaks to you in human j i
accents, manifest the intelligence of a human heart, even that of a jj
beloved friend seeking to convince you of his identity, and that he is <
capable of bringing together or manipulating atoms, which, aggregated, jl
will constitute the symbols of a human body ; you have evidence that it j
it is in reality the spirit of the departed. Why, therefore, invent some j
theory which will be entirely unprofitable, which shall only launch you !
into the ocean of speculation, when the explanation is here—both |
spiritually and materially—in the throbbing of your own heart, that it is !
your own beloved friend who is seeking to convince you of immortality. |(
It may reasonably be presumed that there is an elementary spirit-stage i!
or state. We cannot disprove it. If the communications you receive at i
your circles are lying, or absurd, or ridiculous; if they display human i(
intelligence, whether it be of a high or low order, are there not liars and }
thieves in the world who have passed through the change which is j (
called “death”? And if those spirits who commune with you display j(
characteristics which men, women, and children display in your midst I)
every moment, undoubtedly they are human spirits in a low degree of de- i)
velopment. And some come to you who can clothe their thoughts in human j
language, speak to you of spirit worlds, do they not bear the marks of spirit i
identity ? If you pass onward and upward through the spheres of i
space, into the higher realms, there you may perchance meet with the !
bright and shining ones who have developed from other planets. Some i
of these are human spirits, and others are not, but all are equally if
developed, and all united in the great brotherhood of spiritual existence ! (
may return and communicate with you. These you may term “angels.” |)
We say that even as you here acknowledge your friends on earth, you j j
have almost equal means of recognising your friends who have passed on j
into the spirit world. Therefore, we submit our arguments and state- | |
ments to your own consideration, and we ask you to invent an hypothesis | j
more satisfactory, intelligible, and consistent with reason, if you have |
the power of doing so. Meanwhile you will accept this—that the mani- j )|
festing spirits are human when human intelligence is displayed. j n
We are now prepared to answer those questions which the audience i |j
may see fit to propound to us. ! i
Mr. Marsh: Do you know, of your own knowledge, that there are rU
elementary spirits, inferior to mans spirit, and who can interfere j j
with him f • j j
The Entranced Medium: We ourselves have beheld spirits which are ||j
inferior to human spirits, and we tell you, upon the testimony of those | (l
who are greater than we, that they themselves have been present at j j j
magical seances, where there were other agencies than human spirits, j (j
but decidedly of a lower order. Therefore, we tell you, partly from our | i
own experience, and partly from the testimony of those who are greater j I
than ourselves, that such is the case. i (j
Two or three other questions having been answered to the satisfaction j j i
of the audience, Mr. Colville concluded with an impromptu poem— j) |
“The Educational Power of Sorrow.” The theme for this poem was if I
selected by the members, in a similar manner to the subject of the j j j
address. i j
The meeting was brought to a close with a vote of thanks to Mr. | i
Colville, proposed by Mr. Marsh, and seconded by Mr. Parkes, for the i j I
generous way in which he came forward to deliver the address. | |
Mrs. F. A. Noswortht, of Liverpool, is at present in Leeds, and
says she would be happy to aid in the establishment of Sunday meetings |
or in any other way to promote the cause of Spiritualism in Leeds or |
the adjacent towns. Address, 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
At the Marylebone Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, to- |
night, at half-past eight o’clock, the discussion on Dr. Carter Blake’s ]
lecture, the “ Difficulties of Inquirers into Spiritualism,” will be
continued. '< !
“ The cures effected by spiritual means are among the best-attested |
events on record. And if they are to be attributed to the operation of I
imagination on the part of the patient, it will be difficult to parry the !
application of the same theory to the cures related in the New Testa¬
ment.’’—The ^Evidences of Spiritualism, by M. P.
Mr. W. L. Sammons, of Cape Town, South Africa, has been in bad
health for some time, but is somewhat better. He has forwarded some i
local newspapers, giving an account of a furious onslaught on Spirit- j
ualism by the Right Rev. Dr. Richards, Roman Catholic Bishop of
Graham’s Town.
Mr. John Chapman writes that Mrs. Victoria Woodhull, of the
United States, is in Liverpool, with her mother, daughter, and sister, j
She lectured on “ The Human Body the Temple of God,” and was well
received. He says that most of the local papers reported her lecture j
well, and spoke favourably of her. She will lecture in the Free Trade
Hall, Manchester, October 8th, and afterwards come to London. I!
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who read my experiences of Spiritualism in England, pub¬
lished in the Harbinger of Light, of 1873, will remember that I
narrated some very extraordinary phenomena occurring in the presence
of private and public mediums.
I have had the pleasure of lately being present at the Chiltern circle
by invitation of the spirits themselves ; and as I was long convinced
by personal investigation of the reality of the phenomena, and the
causes of the same, I hardly expected to receive much fresh evidence,
or to witness anything new. I was, however, agreeably disappointed.
The power of the spirits over matter is beyond our comprehension,
and, as it appears, beyond their explanation. Mediums are so varied
in their constitutions that each one displays some new phase. It
seems undeniable that successful manifestations do not depend so much
on the will of the spirits as on the capacity of the medium. Our
medium here is a young married man with a family. He is an engi¬
neer, and is employed by the Chiltern Valley Gold Mining Company.
His mediumship, like that of most others, came upon him unsolicited.
The intelligence manifesting through him professes to be his brother
“ George,” whose earthly life was cut short by being killed in the
mine at which Robert is now engineer. Other spirit friends co¬
operate with him at seances, and we were told that at this seance
“ nineteen bright and loving spirits were around, mostly onlookers ”
The circle is generally composed of personal friends and relatives, but
the same people do not always sit together, nor do they retain par¬
ticular seats. They have changed their place of meeting repeatedly,
without any cessation of the phenomena. It thus appears that the
potentialities of the medium, Mr. Robert Brown, are of the very
highest order, as he is not hampered by many of the conditions which
are usually considered essential. He is a steady, sober man, and his
wife is a firm believer in his wonderful intercommunication with the
other world. He and wife and two children accompanied us to the
house where they have sat for some time. At their former sittings
they have been annoyed by “ larrikins ” shouting outside the house.
The circle consisted of four men, three women, and a little girl, about
fourteen years old. Mrs. Brown had a baby in her arms, which she
retained the whole seance, and another youngster, aged three years, lay
down on the sofa, and, accustomed to the performance, behaved well.
This, to me, was not the least extraordinary part of the performance,
as it evinced such an absolute certainty of the manifestations exhibit¬
ing themselves, that no condition seemed necessary but darkness, and
the presence of the medium.
We had hardly seated ourselves, all holding hands, when loud raps,
as with knuckles, were heard from the table. The alphabet was called
for, aud “ sing ” was elicited. Merry songs were sung the whole
evening, and seemed to elicit manifestations of the best kind. I, who
had been seated outside the circle, was now made to take a particular
seat by the spirit voice. Lights like glow-worms flickered about over
our heads. The medium was ordered to stand on the table, and several
voices seemed vieing with one another as to who could speak loudest.
They came around us, to my ear, close at the back of my head. Soft
warm hands were placed on mine, aud around my neck. A large warm
head, with long hair, was pressed on my occiput, and on my requesting
to feel the nose it was rubbed on my face, and the teeth were clashed
together.
I held conversation with the invisibles. They wished me to come
oftener, they said. They were happy ; so would we be when we came
to them. They could do even better if we attended to the conditions.
What were the conditions? I asked. “Harmony,” was the reply.
George, Barlow, and a French spirit, Nicklers, were the operators, and
they assured us repeatedly that they loved us. We were told at nine
o’clock to “knock off” for ten minutes. We returned in twenty
minutes, and the same extraordinary voices occurred, with singing,
whistling, and shouting by these indefatigable labourers, and all com¬
munications, be it remembered, were in loud tones, and each different
from the other. We were all called by name, and towards the end Mr.
Pringle, who was present with his wife, was addressed by George, who,
as I have already said, was buried in the mine. The spirit said, “Keep
the laths well ahead, Pringle, for the ground is flaky.” The kind good
spirit did not desire that Mr. Pringle should leave his family prema¬
turely, and this caution was given evidently because he saw danger, aud
remembered his own untimely end. Somebody asked, “Were you
down there, George, then? ” “I was,” said the spirit.
After all these marvels had been repeated again and again, either
Barlow or George said, “ I’ll tell you the time if you strike a light. It
is four minutes to ten o’clock.” A match was struck, and sure enough
the clock on the chimney-piece pointed to the exact minute named.
All present heard the time given, and all present saw the hands of
the clock when the match was struck. What living intelligence could
see in the dark the exact minute, or guess the time, after sitting from
twenty minutes past nine, when we extinguished all light ?
On thinking over this most remarkable demonstration of immortality,
I find that—
1st. We had absolute proof of the existence of invisible and intelli¬
gent agents around us, and outside the circle.
2nd. The identity of one at least was proved to the satisfaction of
the living brother.
3rd. They all declared they were happy, that they came because they'
loved us.
4th. That they could see without their earthly eyes.
5th. That they had the power of will to re-form apparently out of
the atmosphere, bodily organs. W. L. R.
Chiltern, July, 1877.
Mr. J. J. Morse's complimentary soiree will be held at the Caven¬
dish Rooms, on Wednesday, October 17th.
Oct. 5, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of "W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbary,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not In any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Orowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. Gd.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, E.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, P.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
BLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. Wi
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
hook consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. Gd.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Ered. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Pacts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 15s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion ; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents : The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. i2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. Gd.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a’trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. Gd.; cheap edition,
7s. Gd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. Gd.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book censists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. Gd.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. Gd.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Vlrs. FBzabcth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Gd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. Gd.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. Gd.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s'. Gd.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. Gd.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
pririciplcs, 6s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. Gd.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. Gd.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. Gd.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. Gd.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tiike. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. Gd.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Gd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Gd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
- 4s. Gd.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DU VIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.” s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations , . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . . 7 G
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . • .76
The Seer. „ III, „ . , » .76
The Reformer. ,„ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . • . .'.76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
i Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . ..36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . . .70
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence ... . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .70
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
Tbe Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysterie.s Explained . . .’7 6
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . • -.76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s ds
Oriental Religions (Johnson) .... 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The SriftiTUAiisT Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism , 14 b
History ot American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll, Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts , 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske.-M. A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Oollyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description ofi Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by tbe Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“ As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-cooceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to nrove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South, Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Brice Is. Id., post free,
w. H. Ha rrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDEN-
k3 TIOAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Bead, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.C,; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
iv
The great question op the day.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to he left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may he set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PRINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS, — A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
nvaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes:—
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of END'S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Golds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
muts be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping ihe system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.O.S., L A.O., London, writes
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Tour theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say : “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost alway s recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
■whichhe did, and received great benefit. He says be never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Ayent for Paris—PH ARMAOIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 5, 1877.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh Unimersity,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll. .
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in tbis country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain,
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—^Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER HI : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
' and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:- Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenorrena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—^Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly (Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subieet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI .-—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight but of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Yisions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo. richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HAB.BISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man —6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10, The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother-in-Law.—16. Wirhelrbewegung.—Vi. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part %—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblegaxos.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Obtainable at The Spiritusalit Newspaper Branch Office, London.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMontlily Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. "Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, Well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
A LADY ARTIST, Spiritualist, and pupil of
Signor Belucci, Florence, and other schools, will, from
the 15th October, receive sitters for portraits in her studio,
19, Holland-street, Kensington. Moderate prices to mediums
and Spiritualists.
Wf L. CANEY, photographer. Studio
vv • opposite the Unity Church, 151, Upper-street,
Islington, London, N.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and-Italian. Authors’manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address O.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.O.
Just published, price 4d.
CLAIRVOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
1
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
vJ ciown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London ; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wedtesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ’ will be posted for one year, pos
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
