Registered as a Newspaper,
SK© joUfiX&i<
Slje ©lirtsi: HitosiJitpjr mMdtis faiilj Sjiitiiuatism m (Snnt ^riteiit.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : u, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia.
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florirnonto BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 10x0, Seventh-street.
No. 322. (Yol. XIII.—No. 17.) LONDON : FRIDAY^ OCTOBER 25j 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents
The Psychological Influence of Fiction. By J. T. Markley,
Author of Stray Thoughts, and Studies of Character 193
Various Aspects of Spiritualism   194
Warned by a Dream    194
Spiritualism and Materialism. By Eliza Boucher ... ... 195
Spiritualistic Work in the Provinces   ...  195
Spirit Identity      196
Outside Testimony as to the Growth of Spiritualism  197
Mr. Gladstone on Spiritualism  ... 198
Spiritualism in California   198
The Poets and the Spirits 199
Characteristics of Physical Mediums    199
Spiritualism in India  199
Poetry:—To Mrs. H m on the Loss of her Son—By-
and-Bye—The Uninscribed Tomb of Robert Emmett 200
Correspondence:—Publicity—The Powers of the Council
of the National Association of Spiritualists—Whence
the Power?—Spiritualism al Home—Spirit Identity
—National Association of Spiritualists—The Wil¬
liams-Bita Case—Books Acknowledged—Enthusiasm,
Harmony, and Faith—What Truth is there in Ho¬
moeopathy ?—Spiritualism in Germany.:  200-203
Bigotry     ... ... ... 203
“ He Giveth His Beloved Sleep.” (Poetry.) 204
A Yankee Story about a Haunted Telephone  204
Answers to Correspondents  ... 204
Paragraphs :—Is it Haunted ? 197 ; The Child with a Tail,
197 ^Spiritualism and the Newspapers, 198; When
is the Proper Time to Raise Constitutional Questions ?
199; British Museum Lectures, 203; A Warning ... 203
“THE' SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER;
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess or
Caithness;-His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dxrckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Bpes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Churth (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M.1 Peebles '(United States); Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd. ;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly onsale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.C.
WANTED, by a SPIRITUALIST, a situa¬
tion as Collector or Timekeeper ; would take care of
offices. 25 years’ character, and good references. Address:
J, Cain, 8, Bloomfleld-road, Burdett-road, Bow, E.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CALENDAR FOR NOVEMBER.
Monday, 4fA—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m. Paper by Mr. J. Bonwick, F.R.G.S.
Wednesday,Uh.—Conversazione at 7 p.m, Music. Re¬
freshments, and exhibition of Research
Committee’s scientific apparatus.
Friday, 8th.—Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Tuesday, 12th.—Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
„ , „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, loth.—Experimental Research Committee at 6.80
p.m.
Monday, 18th.—Fort nigh nvy Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m. Paper by Mrs. Fitzgerald—“Ex¬
periences in the Home Circle.”
Wednesday, 20(7i.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ ,, Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 22nd.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 26<7t.—General Purposes Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ ■ „ Seance Committee,- at 6 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—  H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MR. and MISS DIETZ, having concluded
their series of recitations at.Langham Hall (“One of
the most successful series ever known in London”), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—Coal-
brookdale, October 29; Glasgow (City Hall), November 2;
Deal, November 19; Maidstone, November 20; Perry Barr,
December 3; New Swindon, January 8, 1879. Favourable
terms arranged with Institutes or with Progressive Societies,
C71 7* Out
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture o
“ American Humour,” illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors.
Now Ready. Price 2s. 6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY.
October.
CONTENTS:—
L—Why must I do what is right ? By St. George Stock.
II.—Astrology, Ancient and Modem.
III.—Recent Investigations in Psychology. By T. P. Barkas.
IV.—Immaterialism at Brussels. By J. O. Earle.
V.—Inspiration and Symbolism. By Mrs. De Morgan.
VI.—James Hinton’s Philosophy.
VIL—Pilgrimages in France. No. III.—Pontigny and the
Shrine of Saint Edmund. By Rev. H. N. Grimley.
VIII.—Bohme’s Seven Days of Creation—A Study. By A. A.
Watts.
IX.—Materialistic Mysticism.
Hutton on Scott’s Supematuralism—The Education of the
Feelings—Around the World with Dr. Peebles—Evolution.
_■ E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C. 
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the Gold and Silver Prize Medals
oe the British National Association oe Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
IMPOSSIBILITIES MADE PROBABLE.
Consisting of three propositions, viz.:—1. Vitality makes
Matter. 2. Soul is Omnipotent. 3. A Persistent Life Natural
to Man. By J. M. London: Charles Watts, 84, Fleet-street,
E.C. Price 6d.
BRIGHTON.—MISS WOOD, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. Terms on ap¬
plication.
IVTOTICE OF REMOVAL.—MRS. MAR-
-L x GARET FOX KANE, of the Rochester Fox family,
has apartments at 4, Granville-street, Brunswick-square,
Guilford-street, where she will receive visitors every day,
from 2 to 5, except Saturday and Sunday, and every evening
from 8 to 10, except Saturday and Sunday evenings.
Appointments can be made through letters sent to the
above address.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
. All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s;
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for Ijd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER .
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily b® worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money. |
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & CO.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal oj Cutaneous Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Soutbampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.'
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m,
A Pamphlet with, full particulars on application. ,
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager;
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Cakler, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
i Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charle0, Parkfleld, Dldsbury. Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, J Bernard-'villas, tTnper Norwood.
Fitz-Cerald, Mrs . 19', Cambvidge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Oerald, Desmond G-, M.S.Tel.E., C, Afcerman-road,.Bi ixton,
S.W.
Gregory,Mrs. Makdoneall,2l, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W«
Honvwood Mrs.. 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Massey, C. C , Barrister-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.O.
Bogers, E. Dawson, Jtose-villa, Ohnueh-end. Finchley, N.
Speer, StanhopeTempleman,M..DDouglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D.,12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adsbead, W- P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., Lanffley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett. Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,f
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester
Bonwiclc, J., F.R.G.S., Vale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John, 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W, H„ 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosiand, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H , 7. Oherstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G.. 6, Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S E
Green, G. F„ Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 88, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street. Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. Bart,, Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alft’ed E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A., 14, Wilton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15. Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Relmers, Christian. 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton, J
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8, Museum-villas. Oxford.
Theobald, Morell. 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Trcdwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M.J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood. Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss TT., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq, G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg. Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guidenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Counci llor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, I, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles,Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sfreet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2.985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pris Paris.
G. L. Dit«on, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. j. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de 1’Europe,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memplils, Tennessee, U.S.A.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 25 1878.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de B assom Pi erf e. 285, ChausseeRt. Pierre. Etterbeck.VBrusseis.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Dappas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq.,- Salt Lake City, Utah, U,S.A.
Dr. Grunniii, Waltzner Bouleyard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epp-jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Beigrave-road. S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna,
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El visconde do Torres-Solanot,
SociedadEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TR I UM PH O F L O VE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6<L London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
MR.' J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
HRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
e engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m <
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury vW.O.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and. Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Olairvoyante. No. 2, Vernon place, Biooms-
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
POEMS OF PROG-RESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.’'
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the 'spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems ware given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North,—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIXI.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Oolby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
/CURATIVE MESMERISM AND CLAIR-
’Ly VOYANCE.—Professor Adolphe Didier (33 years estab¬
lished) attends Patients and may he consulted at his residence
from 2 to 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
Consultations by letter.
MESMERIC HEALER.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Olairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
ITALIA—Rivista Psioologioa di Niceford Filalete.
Published on the 15,oh of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, vi& Bogino, No. 23.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d.,paper cover, “Heaven Opened," being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
'subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This boob, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 6s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer,St, James’s-street; andMr.Boughton, St. George’s-road.
<y
S)
€W^
II
i,
in
fit ol % yfujrfss ul i|f ^ftftttf mtit of ^jttftl«aE$nt,
No. 322.—Volume Thirteen; Kumber Seve^teej'i.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2Bth, 1878.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL INFLUENCE OF FICTION.
BY J. T. MARK LEY, AUTHOR OP “ STRAY THOUGHTS,” AND STUDIES OP [;
CHARACTER.”
Experience proves that mankind is, and has ever been, I
subject to the subtle influence of the imaginative faculty, i
Most of the Oriental kindred can boast an inexhaustible
fund of preserved parables, exaggerated national tradition,
and wild amative tales. European literature would be in- j
complete without those finely-wrought pictures of human j
character which its great novelists continue to draw with a
master-hand. Unless human nature becomes radically I:
transformed, poetry will remain a divine passion, ideal con¬
ceptions will captivate the fancy, and every tableau illustra- * j
tive of life in its manifest variations will powerfully evoke I
sympathy, enkindle defiance, or breed disgust, according to j
the measure of the writer’s fascination, mental bias, or [
literary tact. Satire is nowhere so effective as in fiction.
Society will hearken to rebuke when it speaks from a j
“ picture ” where examples are cited in illustration of moral |
dignity or its converse quality. Dogmatism has ever been I
hated for its sledge-hammer force; but soft fables, nicely
pointed, have invariably pierced the conscience, and won |
special triumphs. Why? Because mankind will sooner |
submit to be led by a silken cord than driven—brute-like— !
with a thong of scorpions. Many who would shun the i
approach of a warrior’s naked sword might, perchance, be j
unconsciously bled to death by the point of the housewife’s
tiny needle. It is for this reason that censure is so much j
more mighty, when administered in the garb of fiction, than
it could possibly be enforced apart from the charms of |
imaginative embellishments. But whilst speaking thus j
favourably of high-class stories which possess something
more than a surface interest, and are pregnant with golden j
mottoes, one is grieved to reflect upon the disastrous effects
of the fictional rubbish with which many of our most j
extensively circulated periodicals are charged. They seem I
composed without the slightest intention of benefiting j
society. They have an attraction, it is true, and flowers j
may be glimpsed on the banks sunny and green, but the j
siren voice which lures will ultimately bring the enchanted
ones to sadness and ruin. In Harrison Ainsworth’s Rook- \
wood we find the famous Dick Turpin exalted to the eminence
of a hero because wanton outlawry was a rule of his j
existence, and his darling study. Crime in his case was a i
noble virtue ; wickedness was a source of rich perfume ; j
revenge was mistaken for a chivalrous esprit; and lust instead j
of love was fostered as a sacred passion. Somebody told j
how Jack Shepherd entered the dwellings of the stranger at |
midnight, pursuant to his own designs, to steal the cash, j
and if necessary the warm blood of his innocent, sleeping j
victim. Such deeds, after sunset, seemed rather romantic, j
and the guilty robber was painted as an angel of light by
the scribe whose sympathising biographical comments in no j
way discountenanced those—real or imaginary—sinister |
performances. What wonder, then, that our boys should so j
far forget their own moral nobility and glorious purpose of j
being as to envy the adventures and notoriety of the
falsely-sketched <c Black Knights,” whose “deeds of j
daring” appear so mysteriously heroic. The sensi- j
tive mind of youth need not go back to the days of j
the past to find a stimulant for emboldened law- j
lessness in the terrible examples of poetised villains who’ I
live, move, and have their being in low-class fictional j
creations. The dark river is now—in this age of extra |
wisdom—flowing at their feet. The deadly poison is I
invitingly nigh at hand ; and, worst of all, the bitter draught j
is sweetened to the taste, and consequently the lamentable j \
results are not apparent until the morrow—until the fancy | <
has fairly become polluted, and the mind is led to experience 11
j a pleasurable sensation in the unregenerate allusions and
| unhallowed situations of some virtue-stifling ideal plot. Be
it not supposed that older folk escape the taint. Verily not.
| The names of Reynolds and Pierce Egan are prized more
highly by some thousands of our upgrown, intelligent opera-
| tives than is Scott, Thackeray, or Dickens, whose writings
eschew vulgar sentiment, and combat individual M weak-
j nesses ” and social shams, by their steady but certain
undercurrent of humour, pathos, and wounding
satire. Fiction without a purpose, whatever may be the
skill of its creator, is simply a prostitution of inventive
| genius. It is true the understanding must have entertain¬
ment or it will repel instruction; but the one should be
| blended with the other in magnetic combination, as in the
healthy imaginings of such writers as Bunyan, De Foe,
| Irving, and Gaskell, whose compositions will live as long as
I a clean fancy can enchain the soul, or contagious sorrows
| cling to the heart. The enormous demand for low-class
fiction would seem to justify the manufacture of sensational
tales as an essential part of our national mental food ; and it
may be argued that public opinion is so far infallible, that
whatever wins an extensive approval must necessarily be
accepted as being right. However weighty this argument,
its premises are demolished by converse evidence; for is it
! not a fact that the major portion of the crimes brought
; | before the city police courts can be traced indirectly to the
morbid influence of a trashy literature with which our large
! towns are deluged, and which exhibits vice in a couleur de rose
setting ? If we are to recognise fiction as an art, claiming
I a sisterhood in poetry, eloquence, and music, by all means
j let it be as pure, attractive, and useful as those bewitching
| developments of the mind.
We are not ignorant of the many moral declensions which
poetry and eloquence have suffered; and peradventure the
' “ divine art ” of music is not guiltless in every particular
> | relating to its mystic power over the soul. The influence of
! I the imagination is beyond dispute. Then why make fiction
| the vehicle of degenerate sentiment ? Let it have an
] ennobling purpose even in our cheap prints. Life is too
short and sacred to be made a mockery ; a march down hill
I is detrimental to our national wellbeing: the “ Excelsior ”
banners must be carried to the summit of the mountain if we
j are to realise the glorious destiny of our existence. Fiction
I has been, is, and will continue a wondrous attraction. Can
it not be utilised with special profit ? Trollope mirrored the
trials of poor Fred Pickering, revealed the heroic failures
i and consequent sufferings of an ardent young homme de lettres,
who had more ambition than genius. It was a friendly stab
with a silver dagger, at vainglorious literary pride, which
; i boasted ten talents and possessed two. Fiction in such cases
becomes an almighty force. Would that all our gifted story¬
tellers were equally skilful in plot and noble in design, then
II the province of romance would be grand, and mankind be
11 blessed indeed by entertaining works of fiction.
Whilst respecting religion, we do not want sermons in
novels. Science would be out of place there. Philosophy is
acceptable, when its awful introspections only countervein
the ideals of secular anxiety, or the rare experiences of fretful
I but chastening poetry. George Eliot is here our paragon
Queen Bee. The spite of theology—in its worst sectarian
I forms—is doubly repulsive when found with its rank thistles,
like undergrowths, among the summer flowers of fiction,
j With a warm, artistic, and an intellectual spirituality good
j stories must needs associate. With the monthly magazines
we cannot fairly complain, nor with the gifted host of front
I rank English novelists, whose names are on every lip. Un-
I fortunately, many of the cheaper periodicals lack the moral
| status and motives which make creative genius lively with-
I out being impure.
194
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 25, 1878.
VARIOUS ASPECTS OF SPIRITUALISM.
A few evenings ago the Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A.,
introduced Major Forster, who has long been noted as one of
the best Spiritualistic lecturers in the United States, to a
Doughty Hall audience, in the following words, as reported
in the Medium:—
I am here to-night, not, indeed, to introduce Major
Forster—he needs no introduction to any body of English
Spiritualists, for his name is connected for all time with that
pioneer band who laboured for the cause of Spiritualism in
days which have already become historic. It was no light
thing to bear the burden and heat of those days, and they who
bore their share are honourably known among us. Among
them few are more entitled to distinction than our friend;
and I am the more pleased to be standing here to-night,
because it is the occasion of his return to the platform after
a period of sickness and necessary seclusion from labour.
You will join me, I am sure, in congratulating ourselves
and him on what we hope is a permanent recovery, and the
commencement of a new period of usefulness.
For these are times in which we cannot afford to dispense
with any assistance in the great work that lies before us.
“The harvest, indeed, is plenteous, but the labourers are
few. Pray we, therefore, the Lord of the harvest that He
will send forth labourers into His harvest.” There is,
indeed, great need of discriminating and zealous work in
the field of Spiritualism. I use that word in its widest
signification. I have the fullest sympathy with the work in
every part of its domain. There is room for all, whatever
phase of work may commend itself to them.
Spiritualism is a science; and I hail with thankfulness
any attempt to place even the smallest of its phenomena on
a basis of scientific demonstration.
Spiritualism is a philosophy; and I rejoice at any philo¬
sophical explanation of its many bewildering and startling
marvels.
But it is because I view Spiritualism as a religion, that I
am especially glad to be by the side of the lecturer to-night.
The last time that I occupied this position, when our good
friend Dr. Peebles was with us, I recalled some words that
I had written when yet very young as a Spiritualist. a Spirit¬
ualism,” I said, “is the gospel of God to an age that needs
it.” Imbued with that feeling—and I have seen no reason
whatever to change it—I welcome every help in placing
before the world, and especially before those who profess
and call themselves Spiritualists, the religious aspects of
their faith.
It is a side of the question that is too much neglected.
It is well that we should all “ be able to give a reason for
the faith that is in us,” and the more logical and clear, the
more coldly scientific our demonstration, the better. It is
well that we should record and tabulate our facts, and
speculate, as we will, on the philosophy that underlies them.
Some of us may be thankful to sun ourselves in the glow of
affection which bursts upon us when some friend whom we
had thought dead returns from the Silent Land, and we
recognise the well-known traits of character, and see the
familiar form of our loved and mourned as lost to earth.
Not to all is this blessing given. When it is, the recipient
may almost be pardoned for thinking that for him Spirit¬
ualism has no other boon to give. That, however, would be
but a selfish view and a shallow conception of the blessings
that Spiritualism, properly appreciated, can convey. It can
tell a man not only that his dead live, but also how he must
live in order to prepare for himself a place where he may be
happily reunited with them. None of those who have passed
from this world into spheres of rest neglect to teach a system
of religious faith and practice which is eminently fitted to be
the religion of daily life.
Details vary, as must needs be, but in the broad prin¬
ciples there is a remarkable agreement between the teachings
of advanced spirits. And even those who seem to hover
near the border, who have had little means of advancement,
show, now and again, amid the folly, and sometimes the
sinfulness, that a return to the old conditions seems to
engender that they have learned this great truth, that Man
is what he makes himself ; that the acts and habits of the
bodily life prepare the place in which the spirit-life must
begin ; and that selfishness, in all its many forms, is the root-
vice that eats into the spirit, and sends it scarred and dis-
| figured, stunted and feeble, into the world of which this is
only the ante-chamber.
All spirits, I believe, if we could only get at them, know
this. We are too apt to charge buffoonery and folly on
I spirits, which are in reality the product of the conditions
which we provide for them. And some spirits do seem,
according to a law which is deeply philosophical, and in a
measure intelligible to my mind—some spirits, I say, seem,
when they enter the old sphere of the body, to take on again
the old sins of the body. The drunkard is the drunkard
still, and the filthy is filthy still, so far as intent goes; and
many a poor wretch has cause to know how they can tempt
and lure to sinful indulgence, and live over again, in the
persons of their victims, the old, bad, sensual life that they
lived in the body.
But even they—when one can get at them and reason with
them—even they will lament the permanence of that cha¬
racter which their own acts built up. And this is intensified
in those who have risen above the sphere of self; in whom,
even on earth, “ the flesh was subdued to the spirit,” and
who now return voluntarily to teach and encourage those
who aspire to fit themselves by a life of self-denial and self-
sacrifice, by constant seeking after truth, for a spiritual life
of peaceful and progressive development.
These are some of the aspects of Spiritualism which are
| too little heeded. I have no time, nor is it my province, to
develop the theme. It is because I know that they, and
kindred topics, will be presented to you by the lecturer, that
I have pleasure in standing beside him on this platform.
WARNED BY A DREAM.
'om the “ Religio-Philosophical Journal.")
In this city, about six weeks ago, two young men who
had been intimate from school-days up were in the habit
each year of spending a two weeks’ vacation with a farmer
j named Humphreys in Montgomery county, in this State.
I Six weeks ago young Robert and Edwin, vigorous and joy- .
| ful, left their Philadelphia homes to roam for two weeks in
| field and forest, and to drink in the sweet inspiration of
rural nature. They had been gone a few days when the
| aged father of young Edwin had occasion to rise at three
| o’clock a.m. to attend to his business, when he heard a
| terrible shriek emanating from the room of a younger son; he
hastened to him to inquire as to the cause of the alarm, and
was informed by him that he had just had a most frightful
| dream. He said that in his dream he had seen his brother
| Edwin and young Robert struck down by something
i tremendous—he knew not what; that young Robert was
| dead, and that his brother Edwin was senseless, lying in the
| water.
At the breakfast table the dream was talked over, and the
| lad said that he tried afterwards to sleep, but could not, seeing
| the coffin containing young Robert constantly before him.
As the family are not at all superstitious, the matter was
i looked upon as only a disturbing dream, and there it ended ;
| but a few hours later a despatch came from Montgomery
county announcing the appalling fact so vividly portrayed
in the dream.
It appears that early in the afternoon the two young men
resorted to the Schuylkill river to bathe, and not arriving
home at the usual time, and darkness coming on, farmer
| Humphreys became alarmed, and taking several others with
him, they went in search of the two young men. Coming
to the river they found poor Robert lying under a tree, quite
| dead, showing unmistakable signs that he had been struck
j by lightning. Every part of the river bank was searched
j for Edwin until nearly ten o’clock in the evening, when an
object was seen floating on the water, which was at first
i supposed to be a number of ducks, but closer examination
| revealed the sad fact that it was the insensible body of
young Edwin. His body was found to be completely para¬
lysed, and he could not hear. That he escaped death by
| drowning was indeed wonderful—for he must have been in
| the water about five hours. Dr. Pennypacker, who resides
‘ near, did all he could for him, and he is how nearly well.
tint SiaftlTtiALlStf.
Oct. 25, 1^78.
The question with me is, what power kept this paralysed I
body above water for five hours, so that it did not drown, |
and finally floated it in the direction of the searchers ? J
There was some delay in bringing the body of young j j
Robert to the city, in consequence of the coroner’s inquest,
so that the young man who had the dream did come down J
to the city in the very train that carried the coffin of Robert,
thus fulfilling another part of his dream. !
John A. Hoover.
Philadelphia, Sept. 5th.
SPIRITUALISM AND MATERIALISM.
BY ELIZA BOUCHEB. |
Among the subjects which I have long wished to bring i
before the notice of Spiritualists, that which has stood out
most prominently is the desire to do something, however j
humble, to bring about a better understanding between
Spiritualists and honest Materialists. That their differences j
are many and great I do not attempt to deny, and as they
are patent to the most casual observer, I need waste no time !
in descanting upon them. In this paper (although I only i
rank myself as an investigator) I shall write from a decidedly j
Spiritualistic point of view; and I cannot help expressing my !
conviction that Spiritualists and Materialists, though con- |
stantly indulging in a variety of questionable little compli- I
ments towards each other, and appearing to be bitter j
opponents, are in reality working in precisely the same I
direction, or at all events, to use a familiar expression, I
e< playing into each other’s hands.” Let us briefly note the
points of resemblance. Both are believers in immortality and |
eternal progress—the one for the individual, the other for i
the race. Both cherish the beautiful doctrine of universal I
brotherhood—the one as taught by the ce gentle Nazarene,” j \ ■,
and other great reformers in the truly a golden rule the |
other as enunciated by that kind, maligned, and misrepre- !
sented Apostle of Freethought, Thomas Paine, in his
magnificent declaration, <c I regard the world as my country, I
mankind my brethren, and to do good my religion.” Again, j
both believe intensely in promoting the physical wellbeing I
of mankind. The simple aim of the Materialist is to j
make this little spot of earth which entirely bounds |
his mental vision, a little better, a little purer,
a little less sad for those who come after than he has found j
it himself; and at the same time to develop to the fullest !'
extent of their capabilities the physical, intellectual, and
moral nature of man. Bravely he storms the citadel of the
mental oppressor, quenches hell fire with water thrown
from the deep wells of science, and fights the great battle I
for truth and right as gallantly as any Spiritualist. Grand are
his aims, u and dust, alas, his reward!” This, at least, is
his belief, and a nobler or a sadder picture it is impossible
to conceive. Surely, surely, it should command the most j
respectful admiration and excite the tenderest compassion j
in the heart of every true Spiritualist.
How different is the position of the latter. He feels as
deeply as the Materialist the necessity of working for the |
general development of man, but he believes it to be no |
mortal germ which he is cherishing into radiant beauty. His
work may be discouraging, but he is cheered by the thought i
that angels minister to him ; .that the darkness of the pre¬
sent will ere long be illuminated by the li light which never
was on land or sea ”—the glorious spirit-light from those
regions which have no need of earthly sun or moon to irra- j
diate them. Both the Spiritualist and Materialist are alike
ardent seekers for truth, and she it is for whom each soul
earnestly longs; and in her temple each, t( after his
own manner,” devoutly worships—the latter through |
a glass darkly, the former, in comparison, face to |
face; yet both earnestly and sincerely. In the deep I
mine of Materialism many a noble, unselfish spirit toils j
incessantly for the world’s regeneration, and that very toil j
has within it the undying seeds of spiritual elevation. If !
man be immortal and progressive, then faithfulness and |
truth in man’s soul can never die. Mind and body are so
entirely in sympathy that we can hardly elevate the one
without to a large extent benefiting the other; in fact, it is
scarcely possible to develop a healthy mind and a virtuous
soul in a diseased and ill-conditioned body. This healthy body
195
and sound mind it is the aim of the Materialist to produce.
With vigorous hand he clears away the rubbish of the
logical absurdities, false conceptions, prejudice, and dogmat¬
ism, and thus prepares the ground for the foundation stone of
scientific Spiritualism. To the-enlightened votaries of the
latter it remains to enlarge its basis of facts, to see that
every test is complete, to hunt out the false friend credulity,
and to patiently, slowly, and scientifically lay that founda¬
tion on the rock of incontrovertible truth. But not perhaps
before the noble edifice is completed will the builders recog¬
nise and remember the good work of the honest Materialist,
whose sharp, critical eye detected every flaw in the timber,
every defect in the marble, and every laxity in the workmen.
What the rough Storm Nurse is to the giant oak, what the
she-wolf was to the founders of Rome, what the stern hair-
clad desert preacher was to the Messiah, such is Materialism
to Spiritualism ; and like the wolf and the lamb of the
millennium they shall, in the bright future, lie down together
in peace as joint conquerors of error and of sin.
Albion Villa, Fremantle-square, Bristol.
' SPIRITUALISTIC WORK IN THE PROVINCES.
The following correspondence has taken place between the National
Association of Spiritualists and Mr. John Chapman, of Liverpool:—
“ 10, Dunkold-street, Liverpool, June 8, 1878.
“ Deak Madam,—I herewith send you my subscription to the
B.N.A.S. I am sorry the Association does not take up more work
of a national character than it has hitherto done. Its original intention
appears to be lost sight of in its centralisation. It ought to have adopted
measures like those of the ‘ Lancashire Committee,’ in sending mediums
and speakers out in all the provinces to spread a knowledge of Spirit¬
ualism in all parts of the country. You must expect subscriptions to fall
off from outside your local sphere, except you adopt some measures to
meet and co-operate with other towns and societies.
“ This can be done by engaging and sending out speakers, &c., whose
mission would draw a sympathy towards the institution. Could it not
be blended with the ‘ Lancashire Committee,’ and made to work so as to
effect economy, and have the greatest work done throughout the
country ?
“ Could not every local institution work in its own way, each having
the privilege of a speaker sent wherever a door can be opened, even
where a society, or the people, cannot pay much, or nothing, for a time ?
Aid, no doubt, would be forthcoming, when the work was seen, and we
have now plenty of Spiritualist papers to show it well up. Thus upon
the efforts of the B.N.A. of Spiritualists must the institution, in my
opinion, rise or fall. “ John Chapman.
“To Miss Kislingbury, Sec, B.N.A.S.”
  “June 22nd, 1878.
“ Mr. John Chapman,
“ Deak Sir,—Your letter of June 8th, which was read to the Council
on the 11th inst., and referred to the General Purposes Committee, was
laid before that committee at their meeting on the 19th inst. In reply,
I am instructed to say that your letter was received with respectful con¬
sideration, and that after considerable discussion it was agreed that,
while the committee recognise the desirability of more extended action,
the present state of our finances does not admit of such action being
taken at present. The committea would at the same time call your
attention, and that of all provincial friends, to the fact that a certain
amount of benefit is reflected on the whole Spiritualist movement by our
maintaining a strong and vigorous centre in London; that an honourable
recognition and a better social standing is thus gained for it in the
world, and a higher standard of public opinion created among ourselves,
and that the money expended in keeping open good reception rooms, a
well-stocked library, free siances for inquirers, and fortnightly meetings,
the papers read at which are published in full, and can be read by all,
goes as far in support of the movement at large as if we were directly
aiding local societies in their work; further, that all foreign Spiritualists
are received at these rooms, the literature of foreign societies is filed,
and correspondence with their members maintained; and that thus it
can hardly be said that the work of the National Association is purely
local, but rather general and a'wtfernational; and that though some of
the advantages offered are only available for London members, it must
be borne in mind that these pay a higher subscription in consideration
thereof, and that five-shilling membership is still open to all Spirit¬
ualists, with the privilege of- a vote at the annual general meeting, of a
seaton the Council, and of sending in motions for discussion on any
question affecting the work or government of the Association.
“ The committee have recommended that a copy of this letter be pub¬
lished and sent to the secretaries of local societies, in order that this
view of the position of the National Association may be as widely dis¬
seminated as possible.
“ Emily Kislingbury, Secretary B.N.A.S."
In Cuba a new attempt has been made to publish a Spiritualistic
magazine, but the proofs came back from the censor so mutilated that
the project was abandoned.—Boston Sunday Herald.
Mrs. Noswoethy writes in relation to the late Mr. George Thompson :
•—“ My father’s portrait and memoir will be in the Christian Herald
and Signs of the Times this week,”
186
1?HE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 25, 1878.
SPIRIT IDENTITY. j
Mr. John Wetherbee publishes the following particulars 11
in the Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.), Sept. 28th :— j
I once addressed a letter to my father, asking him three j
or four questions, and took it to J. Y. Mansfield. It had no j
superscription. Mansfield took the letter in his hand, and, (
holding it, wrote, ft My dear son and namesake ! ” repeated
exactly the questions I had asked, and answered them in j
full, and signed the answer, u Your once earthly, but now
spirit-father, John Wetherbee.” My father was then living j
and in New York, and the u spiritual father ” who wrote j
the letter was bogus. Mr. Mansfield’s guides or controls j
read that sealed letter; they did not read my mind, for if j
they did they would, for the general good, have said what I j
at that moment was thinking of, viz.: M Your father is alive !
and in New York.” Mr. Mansfield did not read the letter | [
clairvoyantly, or sense the impressions in my mind, for he j j
thought it was a very satisfactory answer, and wondered I | j
did not think so too; so he was honest, if the spirits were j
not. j
On a subsequent occasion I wrote a letter to my departed |
friend, W. B., sealed it without any superscription, put it j j
inside another envelope, mailed that to Mansfield, and in a j
few days received an answer from W. B., that I think came j
really from W. B. Having the answer in my pocket, I
called on the late Mrs. Hardy and had a sitting, and it so j
happened, as I expected, W. B., among others, took posses- f
sion of the medium, and, among other things, I touched j
upon the subject that I had written about, and W. B. said, I
“ I have answered that, and you have the letter now in your |
pocket.” Now anyone can see there is quite a difference in j
favour of identification between the letter first written and !
the latter one to W. B. If a spirit read the latter letter as j
before, and called himself W. B., he would have had to have J
taken a Sabbath-day’s journey to come through Mrs. Hardy, j j
to keep up the assumption, and it seems to me it would be j j
straining a point to think so; but even in the latter case jjj
mind-reading was possible, for the spirit, calling himself | |
W. B. through Mrs. Hardy, could have obtained the know- j ||
ledge of the letter in my pocket, for it was all in my mind. | |
I write this minutely to show that I do not take everything j |
for granted. ■ ijl
I do not make any pretensions to profundity, but my I j
mind never seems to have been successfully read. Mans- jjj
field’s spirits did not do it, and thus know that I was setting j j j
a trap lor them in writing to a living, earthly father; in a j j j
great many other cases mind-reading has not been a success j j j
with me, and communications have been true sometimes, in | j j
my experience, on matters that could not have been in my j j j
mind and must have come from outside intelligences who j j j
may have been, and probably were, the identical spirits they j (
claimed to be. Still I am willing to admit that the human j j
mind, in the form, may have the power of sensing thought; jjj
therefore, unless the knowledge is such as could not be j j
gathered from circumambient minds—supposing mind to be j j
of a radiant character—it is not reasonable to credit it to I j j
spirits; but, if otherwise, in any single instance—that is, if ju
foreign knowledge has been communicated—then it is j j j
reasonable not only to credit it to spirits, as claimed, but j j j
reasonable to give spirits the credit, even when mind-reading j j
could have accounted for it. With my experience I am j j
obliged to do it or stultify myself. In this connection I will j j |
add that the letter sent to my father and replied to by a j (I
bogus namesake proves the spirit theory satisfactorily to me j j j
under the circumstances of my other experiences, and j j!
proving that spirits surround Mansfield, helping him to an j j j
honest penny and the world to a positive benefit, proves also j j j
that other spirits surround, guide, and influence all other j j j
people, for mediums are only men and women like the rest j j j
of us. .ill
I was at a social gathering at a friend’s house, and having j j j
a pleasant time. Some of the party were seated around a jjj
table, with Ada Hoyt as medium, having some manifesta- jjj
tions. They wanted me to be one of the party at that table, j j j
but I was interested in a conversation and hesitated, partly j j j
because I had investigated her power sufficiently, so that ij'jl
there was no novelty in it; but, always willing to accom- j||
modate, I joined them. We were, as usual, requested to
write the names of three or four of our deceased friends on
little pieces of paper, roll them up so as not to be read,
and put them all together in a pile in the centre of the
table. There must have been twenty-five or thirty of them.
Feeling a little odd or frolicsome (from something that
occurred subsequently, I think it was more influence than
frolic), I wrote the names of suicides. I wrote first the
name of Henry Jacobs, a cousin of mine, who cut his throat
with a razor, because a young girl refused him in marriage
for being a little too old a beau ; then I wrote the name of
a distant relative who shot himself at New Bedford from
mortification; then I wrote the name of Thomas W. Hooper,
who hanged himself in the cellar of the Merchants’ Bank
for defalcation; and then the name of Patty Gray, who,
when insane, hanged herself, occurred to me, and I wrote it,
making four names.
Patty Gray, to me, was only a tradition. She belonged
to one of the first families in this city, three-quarters of a
century ago or more. Nobody in the party could possibly
have known her. The Gray mansion was situated on what
used to be Pemberton Hill, now the western side of Court-
street, which was a thoroughfare by itself, then separated
from Court - street by Scollay’s building and its narrow
extension. It was a large wooden house, nearly opposite
Hanover-street, torn down for commercial purposes many
years ago. In an insane freak Patty Gray jumped out of
the chamber window on to the pavement, breaking a leg,
and, looking up at the window as if she saw some one, said,
a Ah ! devil, you deceived me !” Evidently she had been
influenced by some malicious spirit to do the deed. This
must have happened when my mother was a young child.
All I knew of it was, that the old people who led me in my
youthful walks often stopped and showed me the very spot
she struck, and told me of the circumstances that were then
in the long ago, and how she finally hanged herself. The
fact and the location were indelibly fixed in my mind, the
more so from the fact that afterwards Dr. Shurtleff lived in
the same house, and I was a frequenter of it, and could relate
the circumstances to my companions who lived there then,
and who were not as well informed in the matter as I had
been by my grandmother and aunts, who had been personally
familiar with the circumstances. It is necessary for me to
be thus particular in relating this incident, for the better
understanding of the manifestations in this connection.
When these pellets were all stirred up in the pile so that
no one could tell which from which, the medium would snap
one of them out of the pile and say who it was for, and in
doing so, one of them was for me, and I opened it and read
the name of Patty Gray ; the medium, however, had written
the name without seeing it; then we went through the usual
process to get at the facts, writing a list of six or eight
diseases, including the one which terminated her life, and
the raps came at “ suicide,” which was right; then the
several kinds of suicide, poisoning, hanging, drowning,
shooting, and the raps came at hanging ; then the town or
place where she died. So I wrote the neighbouring towns
thus : Roxbury, Boston, Brookline, Cambridge, Charlestown;
and the raps said, “ Cambridge.” I said it was wrong, that
she died in Boston. The medium then wrote energetically,
almost breaking the pencil, “No; Cambridge!” Well, as
she had been right as to death, and right as to the kind of
death, I hated to be obstinate, so I said I thought she died
in Boston, but I might have been mistaken. She again
wrote, “No, Cambridge,” and I said probably the spirit
might be right, though to myself I knew she was wrong, for
I was as sure of her residence as I was that I had a grand¬
mother.
Some few months after this, an aged aunt was visiting my
family; she was over eighty years old, and I said, “ Caroline,
do you remember Patty Gray?” “ Indeed I do ; I went to
school with her; she hanged herself.” Said I, “Aunty,
where did she live when she committed suicide?” “On
Pemberton-hill,” she replied; “ you can remember the
house; it was the same one that Dr. Shurtleff lived in after¬
wards.” “ Yes, I remember ; I did not know but she might
have died somewhere else.” | Yes, she did,” said my aunt;
“ she hanged herself in Cambridge.” At that I became
interested, when my aunt, continuing, said, “ After she had
attempted suicide by jumping from the window, Mr. Gray
Oct. 25, 1878.
197
THE SPIRITUALIST.
was afraid she would attempt it again, as she began to be !)
insane again, so boarded her in a one-story house in Cam- ||
bridge, and hired a companionable woman to stay with her j
all the time, never leaving her. But it seems Patty was sly !)
and watched her chance, and when unobserved, hanged her-
self on an apple tree in the garden, and when found was k
hanging there dead.” j)
Now, here is a clear demonstration wholly outside of mind \\
reading ; the spirits knew the facts in the case, which I did jf
not, though I thought I did.. How could that be anything |j
else but what it claimed to be? True, it is not positive js
proof of identity ; some friend in the other world may have 11
known that fact; some of my departed relations did, but n
nobody in that circle did, and nobody knew of such a person ! ^
except myself. The manifestation was given by a disem- |)
bodied intelligence. Is there any conceivable solution of the j ■
fact but that it was from a being out of the form, with all j
chances in the world of its being Patty herself? Some may !
think I am stating the case strongly—a little more than j
the actual facts would bear; I am telling it exactly. )
If I am stating it exactly, and I am sure that I am, then I )
challenge anyone to explain that communication in any
other way than as a survival of a human soul after the dis¬
solution of its body. )
OUTSIDE TESTIMONY AS TO THE GROWTH OF
SPIRITUALISM.
The following is from the Chronicle and Examiner, the
largest and leading Baptist paper in the United States :—
Thirty years ago li the first spiritual circle ” was held by
the Fox sisters on the banks of the Genesee ; and in a few
short months, although the summer of ’48 was known as
<c the battle summer,” the fame of the Rochester rappings
had extended throughout the world. The spiritual signifi- I
cance of this event was, for a time, veiled by the application |
to it of a term which emphasised the physical phenomena
that were its mere accidents—physical phenomena which <
sceptics pronounced phenomena in the very fullest sense of j
the word ; while contumacious men of science insisted that j
however strange the phenomena might be, they were by no <
means new, and must be explained by reference to some j \
hitherto unascertained law of nature. Few realised, in that 11
remote period, that these derided “ rappings ” enwrapped a !
new cult and a new creed ; that as devout Mahommedans ^
reckon the age of the world from the hegira, unborn millions
should trace their emancipation from the troublesome thral- !
dom of the old religious faith to that first spiritual circle |;
which suggested, to an incredulous world, nothing more I
promising for humanity than the collusion of servant girls, {!
or the ability of women whose character and motives the f
world did not fail to asperse, to snap their ankle-joints.
Yet the emancipation of millions from the thraldom afore¬
said is traced, by Spiritualistic statisticians, to the aforesaid
circle. We have seen it stated that the number of Spirit¬
ualists in the United States alone is five millions. Now for
every adherent of a sect or a creed, it is a well-known (or
uniformly taken for granted) fact that you may safely reckon
our semi-adherents in the shape of children, dependents, and
general hangers on. The number of Spiritualists in the
United States alone—if we count, as is but proper, the
adherents and semi-adherents—is no less than twenty-five
millions; and as the entire population of the United States
was, according to the census of 1870, but 38,558,371, the
disciples of the Fox sisters have a ri^ht to congratulate
themselves alike on their present numbers, their rate of
increase, and their speedy prospective overshadowing (or
rather enlightening) of the entire earth.
A striking feature with reference to this surprising growth
of Spiritualism, is the immense obstacles which it has had to
encounter. We do not refer so much to the sneers and
derision of the vulgar, or the more refined incredulity of
those who pride themselves on their learning, as to the fact
that Spiritualism has, more than any other religion, suffered
at the hands of those who
“ Stole the livery of the court of heaven
To serve the devil in.”
The old religion has suffered in fulfilment of the prophecy—
“ False prophets shall arise, and shall show signs and
wonders, to seduce, if it were possible, even the elect.” But
the adherents of the old religion, in fulfilment of another
prophecy, have shown a perverse determination to u know
not the voice of a stranger,” and to “ try the spirits, whether
they be of God,” which still gives to that religion—effete
though it manifestly is—the semblance of vitality. The
adherents of the new religion, more generous and confiding,
have been shamefully imposed upon by unprincipled adven¬
turers who showed the signs of an apostle among them,
but who proved in the long run to be wolves in sheep’s
clothing. Again and again have quacks and charlatans
passed themselves off as representative Spiritualists, and
secured from the generous adherents of their assumed faith
the fullest possible endorsement.
Fortunately, no sooner have the impositions of these
charlatans been detected, and their masks and wires and
spirit hands been accumulated in the purlieus of some sub¬
lunary court-room, than it has been easy to show that they
never were Spiritualists at all, and that, simulating with
their base mechanical appliances the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism, they in fact attest the reality of those phenomena,
as the existence of a shadow bears witness to the substance.
Despite all these hindrances, Spiritualism has grown until
it is not only the most widely accepted of the somewhat
I numerous religions of the United States, but embraces, we
| are credibly informed, more of wealth and culture and social
1 distinction than any other—as, indeed, is not unlikely, since
j it embraces among its adherents and semi-adherents con-
| siderably more than one-half our population. Prominent
| among its adherents, we are told, are many eminent clergy-
| s men of all the denominations, although these—probably to
| spoil the Egyptians—still retain a nominal connection with
1 the old religion, and ostensibly preach the old doctrines.
In the case of a religion as widely diffused as Spiritualism,
j it might be feared that diversity of opinions might arise,
I which would breed dissension and endanger the entire fabric.
| But no I That is admirably provided against by letting
| each disciple believe just what he likes, and change his
| creed just as often as he pleases. The thirtieth anniversary
j of the birth of Spiritualism was recently celebrated in this
I city with becoming ceremonies. Mr. Andrew Jackson Davis
j enunciated a creed, embracing seven affirmative and seven
| negative propositions, of which the most important was—
| “ I do not promise to believe to-morrow exactly what I
| believe to-day, and I do not believe to-day exactly what I
I believed yesterday.” Build on these sure foundations, and
! what can disturb the future harmony and growth of the
i new religion?
The American.' Spiritual Scientist (monthly periodical) is dead. The
office of The Spiritual Offering has been moved to Rochester, N.Y.
Is it Haunted ?—The writer of “ Northern Notes ” in the Pictorial
World says, “ There is a house called, I think, the Hermit’s Hedge,
somewhere in the suburbs of Aberdeen, the proprietor of which offers
I an annuity for life to anyone who will live in it for seven years.”
| The Child with a Tail.—Referring to the paragraph from a Scotch
,, | paper which appeared in our columns recently, Dr. Hitchmau, of Liver-
)| pool, in writing on the subject, says:—“In a recent number of the
!' ! Dundee Advertiser, the editor informs his readers that he has received
| a photograph of a child lately born in the tea districts of Darjeeling
with a caudal appendage. The child has due sensibility in the tail, it
seems, according to the savans of Calcutta, though as yet without the
1 power to wag it. Your contemporary is quite right in not considering
the absence of this faculty as very objectionable or remarkable, the fact
] being, as I know from personal observation in several zoological gardens
on the continent of Europe, that monkeys fresh from their native forests
have not at first any volitional power over that peculiar hinder part
i \ | which proceeds from the extremity of the vertebrae, or joints of the
I j; spinal column. The parents, it appears, are well formed, normal,
| (| healthy coolies, and the child with a taij. is the first-born of their family.
| (| We are further assured that the Calcutta correspondent of the Dundee
j) | Advertiser is in every way a trustworthy, honourable gentleman, not at
!all likely to be the victim of a mare’s nest, or to perpetrate an idle hoax.
At present we are not compelled to class all such testimonies of human
tails with mere legends or fables, in spite of very extraordinary instances
of a prolonged os coccygis, a monstrous production familiar to anatomists
—as occasional variation taking place in the os sacrum, and the number
of the coccygeal vertebrae. Dr. Koegel assures the world of anthropo¬
logists (Ausland, p. 1,103) that he has seen and examined men with tails
in the Sunda Islands, specially among the Dajaks, and in the Moluccas;
and certain is it that the specimens he describes and illustrates are some¬
thing more than an abnormal elongation of the os coccygis. If our
| caudal progenitors were covered with hair, their ears pointed and
capable of movement, and we ourselves still in possession of useless
rudimentary organs belonging to other animals, why should not a child
reappear with natural tail and proper muscles ? ” "
THE SPIItlTtTALISl
6gt. 25, 187^.
MR. GLADSTONE ON SPIRITUALISM.
The following is the full text of correspondence which has
recently taken place between Mr. Gladstone, M.P., and Mr.
J. T. Markley, on the true and false issues of Spiritualism :
“ 3, Park-terrace, Horsham, Sussex, Oct. 12, 1878.
*fj Dear Sir,—Not knowing whether you ever see The
Spiritualist newspaper, I venture to send you a copy. The
fact that I am not myself—with my present limited experi¬
ence—a believer in the preternatural interpretation of the
phenomena, and also that the so-called ( Spiritualism’ in¬
cludes members of all the religious communions, clears me
of the repulsive motive of a sectarian effort to ‘ convert ’ an
intellect so grand as yours. I merely bring before your
notice a subject unavoidably spread with a whispering
eloquence, and of which secular journals take no account.
Its importance is nevertheless deeply-rooted and world-wide.
The attestation to its facts by highly moral and intellectually
eminent witnesses in all nations, and among all ranks of
society, seems to favour the idea that none of the Biblical
miracles are more rationally established by sincere cumula¬
tive evidence, and that, therefore, the most anxious of all
questions is now answered by psychological preachments.
Unfortunately, when so-called ‘mediumship’ exhausts itself
with phenomenal outflow, and adds the spurious to the
genuine article, a momentous subject stands in naked dis¬
grace ; refined and thoughtful Christians shrink back from
honest investigation; and a grossly materialistic age naturally
becomes extra-fluent with scornful laughter. I, for one, am
perplexed amid the evident confusion. Only such front rank
minds as yours can grasp the truth of the bewildering
situation.—I am, dear sir, your obedient servant,
“ J. T. Markley.
“ W. E. Gladstone, Esq.”
ME. GLADSTONE’S EEPLT.
n London, October 16.
“ Dear Sir,—I thank you for the paper, which I shall be
glad to examine.
“ I do not share, or approve, the temper of simple con¬
tempt with which so many view the phenomena. It is a
question, in the first place, of evidence: it then follows to
explain, as far as we can, such facts as may have been esta¬
blished. My own immediate duties prevent my active inter¬
vention ; and I remain in what may be called contented
reserve, without any fear either that imposture will rule, or
that truth can be mischievous.—I remain, sir, yours faith¬
fully, “ W. E. Gladstone.
“ Mr. J. T. Markley.”
Spiritualism and the Newspapers.—Newspaper abuse and misrepre¬
sentation of Spiritualism seem to have almost entirely ceased in this
country; but the Standard and Globe, both Conservative organs, have
just exhibited the old spirit of detraction over Mr. Gladstone’s recent
utterances, perhaps as much from political feeling against him as from
anything else. The Globe says :—We may expect at the next Parlia¬
mentary elections to see Mr. Gladstone supported by at least one new
section of affectionate admirers. The Spiritualists, who have so long
wanted a kind friend amongst persons of influence, have bethought
themselves—rather tardily, it must be admitted—of the late First
Minister of the Crown. They have concluded, not unnaturally, that a
belief in ghosts and second sight was not one whit less reasonable than
confidence in Russian promises, and a blind trust in the unvarying
truthfulness of the Czar. Nor have their hopes and aspirations been
disappointed. The gentleman who, at his own or his co-religionists’
suggestion, ventured to write to the member for Greenwich, has received
an answer—inscribed, doubtless, on a post-card—in which much conso¬
lation and encouragement are conveyed to the believers in spirits. Mr.
Gladstone does not share the feeling of contempt with which some
frivolous people look upon “ the phenomena.” He does not, it is true,
explain what he includes under the term “ phenomena;” but we may,
perhaps, safely suppose that he refers to the playing of banjoes by
invisible hands in darkened rooms, to writing on slates by deceased
relatives, and a few other wonders of the same sort. For a belief in
these miraculous performances, and for a complete theory explaining
them, Mr. Gladstone is waiting in an attitude of sublime trust, “ without
any fear that imposture will rule, or that truth can be mischievous.”
It would be satisfactory if we could think that a gentleman evidently
so well qualified to take part in stances was likely to go into the matter
with determination, and settle what he himself declares is the first
question, that is, the question of evidence. But we are told that Mr.
Gladstone’s own immediate duties | prevent his active intervention,”
and condemn him, for the present, to a position of “ what may be called
contented reserve.” This conversion of the right honourable gentleman
is, then, at the best, only half achieved, and he may be regarded by the
less enthusiastic Spiritualists as hardly more than a benevolent
neutral.
j j SPIRITUALISM IN CALIFORNIA.
!)! ~ SPIRIT IDENTITY.
jjl - Reading, Shasta Go.
| | E. G. Anderson writes, September 15th, as follows: A
i case of spirit intercourse lately occurred in our midst, so
|j| plainly marked and so clearly proved, that I think it worth
j j I putting on record in your valuable paper. The case occurred
j|| ' through the instrumentality of Mrs. P. W. Stephens, of
| (| Carson City, who has lately delivered several lectures in this
| j place. The individuals who witnessed the occurrence are all
I (| well-known residents in this place, and are persons whose
| characters for truth and veracity are above reproach. They
i i have, at my request, consented to sign a certificate setting
111 forth the facts of the case, which are as follows :
II Several days ago, Mrs. Lamb, an old lady living some six
I miles from town, in an unhealthy locality, conceived the
| idea that if she could come to Beading, and stay a few days
I with some friends named Cecil, it would greatly improve her
| health. Soon after, Mr. Cecil being at her house (she lives
| with a married daughter) with a wagon, she came with him
j to this place. She felt much better at first, but on the
morning of the second day she was taken violently ill, and
| | died at two o’clock p.m. same day. Her age was seventy-
| I five years. And now comes the strangest part of the story :
| j Mrs. Stephens, who had been in town for several days, in
| j company with Mrs. Cook (one of the witnesses in this case),
| i was making friendly and professional calls among the liberals
I of the town. At about half-past two o’clock she and Mrs.
III Cook arrived at the front entrance of the house adjoining
I | the one where Mrs. Lamb was stopping, rapped, and, re-
; I ceiving no reply, went around toward the back entrance,
| | where they were met by Mrs. Hall (the lady of the house)
| | and several other ladies. Mrs. Hall invited them to enter,
| and they did so.
While they were seated and conversing of the death which
j several of them had just witnessed, Mrs. Stephens suddenly
| exclaimed, “ There she stands now I” and proceeded to give
I an accurate description of the deceased, whom we positively
I j know she had never seen with her physical eyes. She stated
|) | the spirit seemed confused and bewildered, and repeatedly
| | said, “ How strange 1” Mrs. Stephens was seized with a
I | desire to see the body and ascertain if her description was
|) | correct. Accordingly she and the other ladies went into the
I < | adjoining house, and, while standing in a circle around the
| | body, Mrs. Stephens again saw the spirit of the deceased,
|) I and this time accompanied by her husband, who had gone
| | to spirit-life long before. She stood bent over and looking
j | at her own body, and musing, said, “ How strange it all is!
j jj I will go and tell Mallie about it! ” (or a name that sounded
| j I like that, the medium said). No one present knew who was
| | meant, until Mrs. Stephens said she thought it was the old
| lady’s daughter. Then one of the ladies called a little grand-
| | child of the deceased from the next room, and asked her
I | what her mother’s name was. She replied, u Malvina, but
I I was called ‘ Mallie’by her grandmother.”
This striking case of clairvoyance does away with the
j I possibility of “ mind-reading,” as no one present knew the
| I daughter’s name. As a sequel to this strange story, I will
| I state that it appears, from the testimony of the daughter
| | and her husband, that about the time of her mother’s death
| | the daughter was impressed with a terrible foreboding con-
| I cerning her, and frequently exclaimed, (( My mothet! some-
I | thing has happened to my mother! ”
The above is a truthful statement of the facts of the case as they
| | came under our personal observation.
Phebe A. Cook. Susan Cecil.
Joanna Cochran. Mrs. A. A. Hall.
A word concerning the above case. There was no pos-
| i sibility of collusion, for most of the witnesses were sceptics
| j | concerning Spiritualism. Mrs. Stephens had never seen the
| (! old lady while living, nor her body until after her death.
| | Her whereabouts are positively known from the time of the
| | old lady’s arrival in town till the time of the vision ; besides,
| I there were not a dozen persons who knew of her being in
I town till after the test was given as narrated above. It
|| | seems to me, taking the circumstances of the case and the
I | evidence together, they make the proofs of spiritual inter-
' *' course clear and decisive.—Banner of Light,
139
THE SPIRITUALISE.
Oct. 25, 1878
THE POETS AND THE SPIRITS.
The spiritual idea is not only fundamental in the principal
religious systems of the world, but it finds a place in all our
best literature. The great poets of ancient and modern
times recognised not merely the essential principles of the
spiritual philosophy, but also various phenomenal illustra¬
tions of the subject. If the critics had the power to take
all the spiritual elements out of Homer, Hesiod, Virgil,
Dante, Shakespeare, Milton, and Coleridge, they would rob
these authors of their earthly immortality. Indeed there is
scarcely a poet of any eminence who has not fairly sanc¬
tioned the legitimate claims of Spiritualism. And yet the
world does not appear to recognise this most significant fact.
Campbell employs the spiritual element in his poems, of
which we have an example in the interview between the
Seer and the warlike chief of the Camerons. The latter is
on his way to join the standard of Charles Stuart when he is
met by the Seer, who predicts his overthrow. Lochiel
denounces him as a vile wizard, and the Seer, insisting that
he cannot hide the terrible vision, says:—
;if For, dark and despairing, my sight I may seal,
But man cannot cover what God would reveal:
’Tis the sunset of life gives me mystical lore,
And coming events cast their shadows before.”
The Seer proceeds to give a graphic description of the
catastrophe. The field and the conflict are before him; and
as the Pretender and his legions fly in vision from the
bloody scenes of Culloden, the prophet invokes the “ wild
tempest,” as though the elements themselves were governed
by spiritual power, to rise and “ cover his flight.”
Philip James Bailey includes numerous Spirits and Angels
in the dramatis personce of his remarkable poem. Festus
thus describes the manner in which the celestial visitors
appear:—
“ Light as a leaf they step, or arrowy
Floating of breeze upon a waveless pool;
Sudden and soft, too, like a waft of light,
The beautiful immortals come to me.”
Festus is interrogated respecting the general subjects of
which the Angels discourse, and he thus proceeds to answer
the fair questioner:—
“ Some say most
About the future, others of the gone,
The dim traditions of Eternity,
Or Time’s first golden moments. One there was
From whose sweet lips elapsed as from a well,
Continuously, truths which made my soul,
As they sank into it, fertile with rich thoughts—
Spake to me oft of Heaven, and our talk
Was of Divine things alway—angels, Heaven,
Salvation, immortality, and God;
The different states of Spirits and the kind
Of being in all orbs, or physical,
Or intellectual. I never tired
Preferring questions, but at each response
My soul drew back, sea-like, into its depths
To urge another charge on him. This Spirit
Came to me daily, for a long, long time,
Whene’er I prayed his presence. Many a world
He knew right well which man’s eye never yet
Hath marked, nor ever may mark while on earth ;
Yet grew his knowledge every time he came.
His thoughts all great and solemn and serene,
Like the immensest features of an orb,
Whose eyes are blue seas, and whose clear, broad brow,
Some cultured continent, came ever round
From truth to truth—day bringing as they came.
He was to me an all-explaining spirit,
Teaching divine things by analogy
With mortal and material.”
Longfellow has breathed the spiritual conception into the
rhythmical form of his verse in the following significant
lines :—
“ All houses wherein men have lived and died
Are haunted houses. Through the open doors
The harmless phantoms on their errand glide,
With feet that make no sound upon the floors.”
Authors of commanding reputation—who have made con¬
tributions to our literature that give promise of imperishable
vitality—have never derided the just claims of Spiritualism.
If they have not been prepared to accept it with unspeakable
joy, they have, at least, been disposed to treat the whole
subject with profound respect. Irving, in his Midnight
Musinqs, is inclined to credit the idea that spiritual beings
| “ walk the earth
| Unseen, both when we wake and when we sleep.
I The following brief extract is a significant expression of his
I view of the general subject:—
j “Is then this space between us and Deity filled up with innumer-
| able orders of spiritual beings, forming the same gradations between
11 the human soul and divine perfection that we see prevailing from
| j humanity down to the meanest insect ? It is a sublime and beautiful
II doctrine, inculcated by the fathers, that there are guardian Angels
(| appointed to watch over cities and nations, to take care of good
) | men, and to guard and guide the steps of helpless infancy. Even the
) j doctrine of departed spirits returning to visit the scenes and beings
(j which were dear to them during the body’s existence, though it has
j I been debased by the absurd superstitions of the vulgar, in itself is
) j awfully solemn and sublime.”—From “ The Spiritual OfferingP
I CHARACTERISTICS OF PHYSICAL MEDIUMS.
| | One of the chief points connected with the experience of
I | the few Spiritualists who have had opportunities of closely
j j studying the characteristics of several powerful physical
| ! mediums is, the abnormal extent to which they are sub-
III servient to the passion of jealousy. Last Tuesday, Mr.
| ! Lambelle, a trance medium, introduced Mr. Morse to a
| | public audience as the most celebrated trance medium of
| I modern times. We believe it to be impossible to point to a
| | printed record of one physical medium having ever publicly
| | said that another physical medium was superior to himself.
| | SPIRITUALISM IN INDIA.
Week by week almost, information reaches us about the
i j growth of Spiritualism in the best society in India, but in
111 that extensive country the converts are for the most part
| | unknown to each other, the European residents being so
| J widely scattered. Occasionally somebody in the Indian
| { military or civil service inquires of us who is investigating
| | Spiritualism in Hindostan, but we keep no register of the
! j names and addresses which occasionally reach us. Some
I | bookseller should be encouraged to take the position in India
| | which Mr. Terry occupies in Melbourne, and to make his
| j house a centre where inquirers can obtain local inform a-
| | tion and supplies of Spiritualistic literature. Some
j j j of the natives of India have remarkable spiritual phenomena
111 in their midst, as described in the translation from Jacolliot’s
II j book in Rifts in the Veil, and the critical examination and
11 j publication of the facts by good witnesses would be of con-
| siderable value to students of psychology. Mr. Eglinton,
| | the medium, tells us that he has a desire to visit India on
| | his homeward journey, if he can get engagements enough to
I | enable him to visit the country; those of his seances in
| j | which his hands are held throughout by the observers,
! | usually give results of a most convincing nature, and to this
|| class of seances he has been wisely confining himself at
| Cape Town.
! Mr. D. H. Wilson has left England for Hyeres, France.
Mr. J. J. Morse, the trance medium, returns to the provinces to-day,
I after a week in London, during which he lectured before the Dalston
I and Marylebone Associations of Inquirers into Spiritualism.
The back volumes of The Spiritualist are now being bound, and there
| are surplus copies of some of the old numbers useless for the purpose.
Those readers of these pages who would like some of those surplus
numbers for distribution can have them, in packages of one hundred or
more, for nothing, if they ask for them at once, and will pay the carriage
of them.
| When is the Proper Time to Raise Constitutional Questions.—
A ma ter of more theoretical than present practical impor'ance was
raised in the last number of The Spiritualist, in relation to the fact of
an organisation having taken power to do some of its minor work in pri¬
vate. Two of our readers think that the proper time to call attention
| to such a position is when some practical harm has been done by it; in
other words, the stable door is to be shut after the horse is stolen, or
proper railway points are to be laid down after the old ones have
thrown a train off the line and killed some passengers. Or, again, the
mind is never to rise to the level of considering constitutional questions
and first principles of action until in consequence of working upon false
! principles some harm is done. If dangerous points are used on a railway
the first step seems to be to publicly call the attention of the directors
to the same, and if they then do nothing the duty of the public press
| begins. Again, it is said that times of weakness are not the best for
| raising these questions; true, but the onus lies with those who give
i cause for them to be raised, and not with those who but perform their
I routine duty in relation thereto. These are answers to two objections
I among several endorsements of the plan of working upon sound
principles.
200
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oot. 25,1878.
#netrg.
TO MRS. H M ON THE LOSS OF HER SON.
Why should thy tears fall ?—Ho hath risen from sleep!
For, angels were near thy brave hoy on the deep,
To bear him away from its storm-heaved breast,
To the fair spirit world with his Maker to rest.
The world hath its thousands whom nothing it grieves,
Though friends should fall round them like Autumn’s sere leaves,
In follies they live, as if life were but here :
We would bid such remember, “ Time’s end draweth near.”
To thee their poor pleasures no comfort could bring;
For in true hearts like thine. Death aye leaveth its sting :
’Tis thy soul’s grander aim to relieve the opprest—
It is but in blessing that thou canst be blessed.
Weep not—oh, weep not!—but a moment he’d sleep,
•Till awakened by angels he rose from the deep.
Yet a soft whisp’ring voice shall thy spirit still hear,
For thine Alfred, thy lov’d one, will oft linger near !
Margaret Isabella S.
Newcastle-on-Tyne.  
BY-AND-BYE.
Be quiet, restless heart! The long light lies
In gleams of lingering sunshine on the hill;
The home-bound swallow, twittering as he flies,
Makes silence seem more still.
The shadows deeper grow, and in the woods
The air a latent sweetness holds in fee ;
An odour, faint of yet unblossomed buds—
So like, dear heart, to thee !
Far distant in the soft cerulean deep,
Where the horizon bounds the nether world,
Great ships becalmed, like brooding birds asleep,
Lie with white sails loose furled.
In peace the day is ended, and the night
Falleth.as doth a veil upon the sea ;
Along its bosom come with swift-winged flight
The gray mists, silently.
Oh, anxious heart, how Nature speaks 1 Her power
How leisurely she uses ! How intense
The infinite peace of that most fruitful hour !
How soft her influence !
Time hath she for her storms to sweep the main;
To rock the tree-tops with her winds of wrath ;
To bring forth fragrance in the summer rain;
And time for snow she hath !
So, dear, for all thy eager soul desires,
She keeps sweet times and seasons. In her mood
Is hid from thee all passion’s subtle fires
To round thy womanhood.
Cease, then ! and in this dewy twilight, move
As one who asks not whither, cares not why ;
This gift for all holds still the Eternal Love—
God’s endless by-and-bye.
Lucrece, in “ Sunday Afternoon ” for June.
THE UNINSCRIBED TOMB OF ROBERT EMMET.
Robert Emmet, the young Irish patriot who was so beloved by his country¬
men that thousands of soldiers had to be employed to keep the peace on the
day of his execution (September 18th, 1803), in the course of the speech
before his death on the sufferings of Ireland, said—
“ Let my tomb remain uninscribed, and my memory in oblivion, until other
times and other men can do justice to my character.”
The Dublin Comet afterwards published the following poem :—
“ Pray tell me,” I said, to an old man who strayed,
Drooping over the graves which his own hands had made;
” Pray tell me the name of the tenant who sleeps
’Neath yonder lone shade where the sad willow weeps;
Every stone is engraved with the name of the dead,
But yon black slab declares not whose spirit is fled.”
In silence he bowed, then beckoned me nigh,
Till we stood o’er the grave—then he said with a sigh,
“ Yes, they dare not to trace e’en a word on this stone,
To the memory of him who sleeps coldly alone;
He told them—commanded—the lines o’er his grave
Should never be traced by the hands of a slave!
“ He bade them to shade e’en his name in the gloom
Till the morning of freedom should shine on his tomb,
‘ When the flag of my country at liberty flies,
Then—then let my name and my monument rise.’
You see they obeyed him—’tis twenty-eight years,
And they still come to moisten his grave with their tears
“ He was young, like yourself, and aspired to o’erthrow
The tyrants who filled his loved island with woe ;
They crushed his bold spirit—this earth was confined,
Too scant for the range of his luminous mind!”
He paused, and the old man went slowly away,
And I felt, as he left me, an impulse to pray.
Grant Heaven I may see, ere my own days are done,
A monument rise o’er my country’s lost son!
And, oh ! proudest task, be it mine to indite
The long-delayed tribute a freeman must write;
Till ifien shall its theme in my breast deeply dwell:
So peace to thy slumber, dear shade, fare thee well,
Mr. Charles Watts, of 84, Fleet-street, London, has reprinted as a penny
pamphlet the last speech of tho young physician, Which is. one of the noblest
pieces of eloquence ever uttered.' Its closing paragraphs arc
“ If the spirits of the illustrious dead participate in the concerns and cares
of those who are dear to them in this transitory life, 0—ever dear and vener¬
able shade of my departed Father!—look down with scrutiny upon the conduct
of your suffering son, and see if I have ever for a moment deviated from
those principles of morality and patriotism which it was your care to instil
into my youthful mind, and for which I am now to offer up my life.
“ My Lords, you are impatient for the sacrifice : the blood which you seek
is not congealed by the artificial terrors that surround your victim; it
circulates warmly and unrifled through the channels which God created for
nobler purposes, but which you are bent to destroy' for purposes so grievous
that they cry to heaven. Be ye patient! I have but a few more words to say.
I am going to my cold and silent grave: my lamp of life is nearly extin¬
guished : my race is run: the grave opens to receive me, and I sink into its
bosom ! I have but one request to ask at my departure from this world : it is
the charity of its silence! Let no man write my epitaph; for, as no man
who knows my motives dare now vindicate them, let not prej udice or ignor¬
ance asperse them. Let them and me repose in obscurity and peace, and my
tomb remain uninscribed, until other times and other men can do justice to
my character. When my country takes her place among the nations of the
earth—'then, and not till, let my epitaph be written. I have done.”
The poet Moore wrote the following lines shortly after the execution of hi
unfortunate young friend, Robert Emmet—
0 breathe not his name, let it sleep in the shade,
Where, cold and unhonoured, his relics are laid;
Sad, silent, and dark be the tears that we shed,
As the night dew that falls on the grass o’er his head !
But the night dew that falls, though in silence it weeps,
Shall brighten with verdure the grave where he sleeps;
And the tear that we shed, though in secret it rolls,
Shall long keep his memory green in our souls.
] dTomsponxience.
i j i [Greatfreedom is offered'to correspondents,who sometimes express opinions diametrically
I ) ! opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
i 1 I be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
j J I are not anonymous.1  
| j | PUBLICITY—THE POWERS OF THE COUNCIL OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
| ) | SPIRITUALISTS.
V {
|) j Sir,—In Mr. Harrison’s appeal to his constituents, which you
j j ] publish as part of an article this week, I notice with surprise a sug-
j (I gestion that I should undertake, or be invited to undertake, in the
11! Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists, a task of
] [ | which Mr. Harrison himself seems to have had enough. While
11 sensible of the compliment, allow me to submit, in the first place, that
i 11 this public designation of individuals is open to some objection. The
! | i comments likely to be provoked might be a little hard upon me, who
| (! have done nothing and said nothing to invite them,
i 11 Passing from that personal matter, I should like to offer some
j (I remarks on the questions of principle mooted by you, and so sum-
| | marily disposed of by the Council. I was not present on the occasion
ij j when the two resolutions of Mr. Joy and Mr. Bennett respecting the
i|| publicity of committee proceedings were passed. But to the principle
j( I of the first I am disposed to assent. I respectfully submit that it is
I | not the fact, as you assume, that committees of the Council are
I j | responsible to the Association generally, or otherwise than to the
I) | Council itself. Upon the latter body rests the responsibility of
j| j adopting or rejecting the reports of its committees, and it has power
j j to call for their minutes, and to discuss, if necessary, all the grounds of
their decisions ; and the public are properly and sufficiently secured by
I publicity being given to the proceedings of the Council. This could
i only be otherwise were the Council to degenerate into a mere register¬
ing body, and if all the power of the Association were to be exercised
| by committees. We are, it is evident from our long and warm debates,
very far from that. On the other hand, much embarrassment would
not only conceivably, but almost certainly, arise from the publication
of the inchoate proceedings of committees, and of minutes intended
only for their own convenience.
!It is true that committees of the two Houses of Parliament sit, as a
I rule, with open doors ; but then their functions are for the most part
judicial, and practically final. But members of committees are, in that
I capacity, responsible only to their House, and not to the constituent
| body.
| In Clause 27 of our constitution and rules it is provided that “ a
report (of committee) which is not approved by the Council shall not
be communicated to the Association,” which implies that the Council
alone are responsible to the latter body ; and it is difficult to see
i why individual members should have a privilege which the Associa-
| tion collectively has disclaimed. Therefore I think that tho great
principle of associating publicity with responsibility has here no
I application.
Well, but Mr. Joy’s motion being carried, and having become a
rule of the Council, what on earth was the necessity or the use of Mr.
i j | Bennett’s? Thenceforth it became the duty of the secretary to refuse
Ii ' ] public access to the minutes of committees, for the safe custody of
which that officer is responsible. And under what power, I would ask,
does the Council presume in this manner to prescribe or to proscribe
the actions of individual members of the Association ? It was ultra
vires and nugatory. It might be brought to a simple test which would
demonstrate the futility of the assumption. I might pick up the first
I gossip of what had passed in a committee, and of the acts of some
individual therein, and publish it with a comment, and my name
attached. This would be waiving an advantage I should have if I
was an editor, or an anonymous correspondent, to either of whom the
charge of “ making public comments or criticisms ” could not easily be
brought home. (For as I read the resolution, “ making public com¬
ments’’means making comments publicly, not publishing comments.
The distinction is important; for an editor publishes everything that
Oct. 25, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
201
appears in his paper by sending it to press, but all comments that j j !
appear therein are not necessarily, or in fact, his comments—comments j )
made by him.) But my object would not be to show that the framer | | |
of the resolution had so worded it as to make it practically ineffectual, j ( i
but to defy what, be it said with as much respect as possible, I must |)
regard as a mere impertinence on the part of the Council. I should | <
have committed, it seems, “ a breach of privilege.” (A word upon this i |
preposterous phrase presently.) But no, it would only be “ a breach of j) i
privilege” if the published account of what had taken place in the |j
committee happened to be true ; for then only would it be a comment 1)
on “ proceedings ” or individual “ actions.” If it happened to be a i ( |
malicious falsehood, it would escape the penalty. What penalty? |(|
Presumably a censure as impertinent as the resolution. • ;) |
The resolution does not enact such a provisional rule of the Associa- | ( |
tion as is contemplated in Clause 27 of our constitution. What, in I y J
juridical language, is the ultimate “ sanction ” of such a resolution as I) j
this, which is not a law of the Association, and which does not relate to j ( j
the conduct of its business ? By Clause 7 the Council has power to 11
expel a member of the Association who has so demeaned himself “ that I) i
it would be to the dishonour of the Association that he longer continue j s j
to be a member,” and this is the only penal authority it has. But how j j i
have I, in the case supposed, so “ demeaned myself,” &c., by the I) i
exercise of my legal right as a British subject, in contravention of no j ( j
law or rule of my Association, nor of any moral law ? I have done j j i
nothing immoral ; I have only done something which a majority j \ |
of the Council have declared they would rather I did not do ; which j ( j
they had no right whatever by such mere declaration to forbid my |) j
doing ; and which, in fact, they have not forbidden in the only way— j ( j
that provided by Clause 27—in which they could make their will j y j
effectual as an enactment (and then only subject to the confirmation of j) i
a general meeting, and of doubtful interim obligation). But it seems ! ( j
to have occurred to the mover that as the Houses of Parliament have | j i
sometimes declared their privileges by resolution, why shouldn’t our ! j j
Council ? (He forgot the awful grief those august bodies have some- j j
times come to on these occasions.) Students of constitutional law i j I
have been much perplexed to assign to privilege of Parliament its exact j ( ]
legal validity. Their embarrassment was as nothing to mine when I j j j
grappled with the problem of what is the “privilege” of the British j j j
National Association of Spiritualists (or of the Council, for we are not I j
told which), whence derived, wherein consisting, how to be enforced, j j j
The phrase smacks of one of those youthful debating societies whose j 5 I
solemn resolutions on political questions commence “ this House is of | ( j
opinion.” If we wanted to pass, not a rule, but what I suppose to i j i
have been intended as a vote of censure, surely we could have found j j
language a little more intelligible and less pretentious. Would it not be j j j
well if, beside our other accomplishments, we were to cultivate a sense j j j
of the ridiculous ? But it is not even a good, honest, actual vote of j) j
censure, except prospectively. “ That it be considered, &c.”—that is : ( j
for the future. What is the authority of such a declaration ? How i j j
can it be the foundation of any subsequent proceeding, in the event of ! ] j
its being disregarded. Public bodies only make themselves ridiculous j j j
when they lay down rules of conduct which they cannot enforce, and i j i
which nobody is bound to accept. The majority of the Council might ) j j
just as usefully pass a vote of censure upon me for writing this letter as j y j
upon you for your articles. But I should only laugh and write another, ] 5 j
and probably you will do the same. If they put themselves “in j < |
order,” and got it made a rule of the Association’s that we should not j j !
write articles or letters, of course we should either obey or quit the j) j
Association. But this opinion of a past Council meeting, not embodied | j j
in a rule, is not binding upon members, who therefore do nothing 11 I
censurable in disregarding it. As a member of the Association j) I
I respectfully repudiate the pretension of the Council to dictate to j I
me any limitation of my civil rights, which I have not assented j j !
to by becoming or remaining a member. I am not aware that by so j j j
doing I have acknowledged the authority of the Council in matters of j j ]
taste or opinion. And I would submit the following as a safe and j j j
logical test of whether a vote of censure relates to matters within our | j j
competence or not. Could subsequent persistence in the act censured j j i
bo punished, and could the authority of the Council be vindicated by J ) ]
expulsion from the Association of the contumacious party? Apart J
from non-compliance with the regularly enacted laws of our body, this I | |
extreme power is confided to the Council only as provided by Rule 7, j j j
which obviously refers to cases of public infamy. Of course the. j I
Council might embody Mr. Bennett’s resolution in a rule, which the j i
general meeting might confirm. But until this is done it is binding upon !) |
nobody. C. C. Massey. i j j
Temple, October 19th.   ] j i
WHENCE THE POWER ? ] j
Sir,—In one of Dr. Wyld’s able papers, he mentions a medium from j ( j
whom he invariably obtained correct diagnoses in difficult cases. He j j
remarks that she at one time supposed her intelligence in the matter to j j j
come from an Indian spirit guide, but afterwards admitted that she lost ! j i
sight of the guide, and supposed “ she saw the cases herself.” The j) j
natural deduction is that the finer sense which enabled her to distinguish ! j j
the minutiae of disease, when in a mesmeric sleep, lay dormant in her j j j
own brain, or was communicated to her unconsciously through the brain | j I
of her mesmeric controller, who in the instance named was Dr. Wyld. I j j
My attention has been drawn to this phenomenon, mentioned by so j j j
high an authority as Dr. Wyld, because I have been for some weeks j) j
greatly interested in a psychological problem of the same kind which i j
has come immediately under my observation. j j I
There is at present in London an American medium, whose speciality !)
is the treatment of obscure disease. I have myself been under her care, | j i
and several of my friends have visited her, in every case with satisfactory j j |
results. The questions which occupy my mind with regard to her, and j) j
her apparently supernatural power, are these:—Does the medical 1
knowledge which she undoubtedly possesses germinate in her own brain ?
Is it communicated unconsciously by the mesmeriser, who is generally
her husband; or is it, as she herself is disposed to believe, derived
directly in each mesmeric sleep from her spirit guide or control ? When
entranced, she claims to be controlled by her mother’s spirit. I have
ascertained that her mother, while in the earth-life, was much valued
by her acquaintances and neighbours for her medical knowledge and skill
in the treatment of disease. The medium herself has been subject to
mesmeric influences from her earliest childhood, and has, she says, always
possessed the gift of ascertaining the cause of disease, and of suggesting
alleviative and restorative measures. There is still another hypothesis,
namely, that in a mesmeric sleep she reads from the thoughts of the
patient, and so becomes acquainted with facts and experiences which
may lie dormant and unsuspected by the patient himself. But this
hypothesis I reject, because in more than one instance which has come
under my own notice the medium has declared disease to be owing to
causes entirely alien to the patient’s own belief and to the diagnosis of
medical men. Although I am quite a novice in such inquiries, and
therefore my expression of opinion may appear presumptuous, it yet
occurs to me that, entering as I have done upon my inquiries with a
mind free from prejudice, and with no bias to any given conclusion,
the result of my observations may possess some little interest for other
inquirers.
One fact in connection with the medium in whom I am interested
strikes me more particularly. It is this: in her normal condition she
is a pleasant, chatty person, with an evident knowledge of the world,
and with powers of mind which, developed, would be considerable, but
which, so far as my observation enables me to judge, are very latent.
Whilst she is amusing and original in conversation, she is not capable
of carrying on an abstruse argument, and her expressions are the more
striking to an English ear from the decided prevalence of American
intonation and idiom. When mesmerically entranced her whole identity
appears changed; her voice is mellow, her accent only occasionally
American, and her choice of expressions at once elevated and simple.
In describing disease she makes use of terms familiar to me in books of
household medicine, never, or very rarely, in those professionally used.
She is more at home in subjects referring to disease and its treatment
than upon any other. At the same time, I have been struck by her
power of generalising upon any matter which may come up in the course
of conversation. She shows some knowledge of the past, but does not
affect to know everything or all about any given thing at once.
In reply to my questions, sometimes put with a view to elicit her
acquaintance with my past life, she will reply, “ I do not know, but I
will find out, and tell youand more than once, when I have forgotten
the question, she has correctly answered it. It is difficult to know what
one has in one’s mind, or how far one has stowed away a memory, but I
have tried in vain to trace in her remarks a connection with my own
thoughts: On the contrary, her views of many matters, personal to
me or interesting to me from their innate value, are often diametrically
opposed to my own views and belief. It seems to me, therefore, after
most careful consideration and painstaking investigation, that she does
not evolve her knowledge of my disease, or of my past, or of my views
from my brain. Neither can she by any recondite possibility have
them communicated by her mesmeric operator, as her husband knows
nothing about me; it therefore follows either that the power of divina¬
tion exists in her own brain—mesmerically excited—or she is, as she
imagines, controlled. As I am not a Spiritualist, but as yet an in¬
quirer only, I find this last hypothesis the most difficult to accept,
although it apparently presents the best key to her medial power. I
should mention that, although she never forces a test to any one, she is
always ready to accept and satisfy one. A near relative of mine tested
her clairvoyant powers by placing a letter closely folded under a thick
table cloth, and calling upon her to read it. She did so, and at the
same time gave a sketch of the writer’s connection with the inquirer,
which was correct. I could mention many such instances of her power,
but abstain, as of course experiences of the same kind are familiar to all
psychological investigators.
Although I have read and thought much upon the subject of modern
Spiritualism, I am still, as I am well aware, on the threshold of a vast
inquiry ; but I must frankly own that a conversation with the medium I
mention, when in her mesmeric condition, goes further to convince me
that those who have left the earth-world return to control in spirit those
they have loved, than a dozen dark seances would effect. How is it
possible to trust one’s impressions, or believe in the reality of spirit
voices or communications, in a room so carefully obscured that the
atmosphere is that of a dense fog ? Neither can I reconcile it with my
sense of the fitting that disembodied spirits should enjoy setting two or
three musical boxes to work, thereby creating discordant noise, or that
they should indulge in the childish amusement of exciting one’s nerves
by a system of ill-regulated raps. Granting even that our friends who
have left us are, in all but their “fleshly envelope,” identical with our
friends when here, that their aims and aspirations are no higher, and
that their spiritual development is only very partial, I yet must think
that they would hardly revisit the scene of their troubled earth-life in
a jocular spirit, and with apparently no higher aim than the amusement
of a circle of investigators. I most strongly deprecate the dark seance
so much in vogue. It most unfortunately suggests to me the old con¬
demnation, “ They loved darkness rather than fight.” Everyone knows
why. J. E. Rees.
SPIRITUALISM AT HOME.
Sir,—It may be within the recollection of a few of your many readers
and contributors that, several months ago, “ An incident ” was recorded
as having occurred through the medial powers of our little boy. Another,
of a somewhat similar character, was shown to me last night, and I
desire to lay it before thoughtful, earnest minds. My child had been
asleep for about two hours and a-half, when I became uneasy at his
THE SPIRITUALIST.
W2
Oct. 25, 1878.
constant coughing, and rose to go and lie down beside him. I had not
done so more than eight minutes when a soft, brilliant light came three
or four inches from me; gradually, as if atom by atom, it developed
into the perfect form of an angel, about the size of a newly-born infant.
I watched tenderly, and as the smile grew more powerful the lips
seemed to breathe—not speak—the words, “ Fear not.” It then dis¬
solved atom by atom, re-formed for a few brief seconds, and dissolved
once more. After this the coughing entirely ceased.
Adelaide M. Slater.
19, Leamington-road Villas, Westbourne-park, W.
20th October.  
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—Now that Count de Bullet has given us his interesting account
of the photograph he has taken of John King, which he finds so like the
engraving which appeared in The Medium, perhaps the writer of a letter to
Mr. Burns published in that journal, June 5th, 1874, may be induced to
reconsider the criticism he then made of a photograph of this spirit
taken in Paris. He writes: “John King (where he has his light) is
clearly taken from your picture of him. It is not the strong likeness of
the face I object to, for John King in London and John King in Paris
should be alike; but it is the exact similarity in the folds of the turban,
and in the little downward projection in the backward part, and in the
amount of sideward turn of the face that is so curious and suspicious.
Williams had nothing to do with John King on that occasion mediumis-
tically or otherwise. John King was all right on the plate before
Williams sat down at all.” Now I saw a great deal of John King on
the occasion of Williams’ visit to Paris, and he assured me repeatedly
that he stood for the photograph in question ; and, indeed, immediately
after it was taken, I, who was present at the time, went with Williams
into a dark closet, when the voice spoke and said, “It is a good like¬
ness, and I congratulate the photographer,” who was of course the
miscreant Buguet. Upon seeing the plate developed, I noticed the
strong resemblance the image bore to the sketched likeness; but why
should not John King make himself up in the same way to be photo¬
graphed as he had done to be sketched ? Does not the fact of an
unmistakably genuine photograph just taken being like the celebrated
picture make it fair to presume that one deemed a fraud by the above-
mentioned critic taken four years ago may be, after all, an honest one,
notwithstanding the apparently suspicious resemblance to an engraving
that might have been copied ? I have always looked upon the portraits
taken in Paris, although done by Buguet, as genuine spirit photographs,
and the result of Count de Bullet’s experiment confirms me in the idea.
I wish the Count would endeavour to get from John King, who shows
himself so reasonable and intelligent with him, some explanation of the
recent unhappy occurrence in Holland. Is it possible that a long-tried,
faithful medium like Williams was consciously bent on deceiving, and
that there is nothing to be adduced in extenuation of the apparent fact
that Williams is a common-cheating medium ? It is hard to believe, and
painful to consider. J. H. Gledstanes.
Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—I shall feel obliged if you will allow me to supplement your
report of our last Council meeting by the following * notes :—Soirees:
The Soiree Committee reported that the first reception of the season
would be held at 38, Great Bussell-street, London, on Wednesday,
Nov. 6, to commence at 7 p.m. There would be the usual music and
ringing at 8 p.m., and at 8.30 Mr. Barrett and other gentlemen of the
Kesearch Committee would exhibit and explain the weighing and
registering apparatus in the seance room. Befreshments at 9 p.m. Mr.
Bogers will be steward for the evening.—Fortnightly Meetings: Mr.
S. Moses reported that the fortnightly meetings would commence on
Monday, 4th November, at 8 p.m., and that a printed list of the papers
would be sent to each member of the Association in a few days.—Prize
Essays : The Library. Committee reported that arrangements had been
made with Mr. W. H. Harrison for an exchange of a certain number of
copies of prize essays for Rifts in the Veil, which the Association would
sell for its own benefit. The committee recommended that one dozen
copies of the essays be sent as a gift to each of the authors, and that
100 copies be retained for the use of the Association. This was agreed
to by the Council. E. Kislingbury, Secretary.
THE WILLIAMS -RITA CASE.
Sir,—I know not what the other gentlemen whose names you have
associated with mine, in a suggestion that we should test these mediums
in private houses, may say to it; but I am able and willing to give my
unreserved testimony in favour of one of them, Mr. Williams (of Mr. Bita
I know little), already, without any such further investigation. I must
add that this testimony is perfectly consistent with whatever view may
be taken of the recent occurrence abroad. I have had abundant evidence,
both in private and public sittings, and some evidence in private houses,
of the genuine powers of Mr. Williams; and my conviction of his
mediumship would have been founded upon very insufficient grounds
if it could be shaken by what we have lately heard. Upon that subject,
as I understand that Mr. Williams has consented to go before the com¬
mittee of investigation appointed by the Council of the Association, it
would be improper for me, as a member of the Association, to express
any opinion, or to found any comments upon it at present.
I should like, however, to say a word in explanation of the course I
took at the late special Council meeting in proposing the reference
of the communications from the Hague to the Besearch Committee,
and which the chairman of that committee, Mr. Fitz-Gerald,
seems to have rather misapprehended. I was quite prepared for,
and should have been ready myself to urge, the reply of that committee
that their conditions of investigation are such that questions of character
are irreevant. My motion did not direct, nor did I contemplate, inves-
j tigation of the charges by that committee. But as the question had
i | been brought before the Council, I wished to mark the fact that our only
i | concern with it was through our Besearch Committee, which employed
1 | Mr. Williams, leaving that committee to make what answer it pleased
i | (and what answer it would make I foresaw) to the Council.
! | C. C. Massey.
| ! October 19th. -   —
BOOKS ACKNOWLEDGED.
Sir,—The Cambridge Association of Investigators into Spiritualism
tenders its sincere thanks to Mr. John Scott, of Belfast, for the liberal
| present of books just received from him, which will be a great acquisition
to their at present small library.
A. E. Hunter, Jesus College {Librarian).
j Cambridge, Oct. 20th.  
ENTHUSIASM, HARMONY, AND FAITH.
Sir,—You may, perhaps, think it worth while to copy the enclosed
passage from Mr. Froude’s History of England. To me it seems of
great interest and importance, as illustrating, with many similar pass-
| ages in religious history and biography, how readily and quickly the
gates of the unseen open in sympathy with spiritual exaltation, perfect
harmony, and pure enthusiasm. No wonder, perhaps, that this sym¬
pathy, which responds to noble aspirations among devotees of creeds and
I causes the most opposed, has always been mistaken for tokens of divine
| approbation of that which may, nevertheless, be condemned to righteous
I extinction or change. Indeed, so far as the mere development of ap-
| patently supernatural phenomena is concerned, apart from their quality,
! it is probably indifferent by what means this rhythmic consensus and
| elevation of spirits is produced. So with faith. The one thing neces¬
sary for it to be effectual is that it should be real. “ Through faith,”
says Paracelsus, “ men may perform the incredible by means of the
imagination, even to draw down the strength of the influences of the
| stars, and if the command be combined with faith, the magically divine
spirit within us has a superhuman sphere of action, which extends
| itself as wide as our thoughts, our imagination, and our faith. . . . De¬
termined imagination is the beginning of all magical operations. Fixed
j thought is also a means to an end. ... If we rightly understood the
mind of man, nothing would be impossible to us on earth. The imagina-
) tion is invigorated and perfected through faith, for it really happens
| that every doubt breaks the operation. Faith must confirm the imagina¬
tion, for faith establishes the will. Because men do not perfectly
imagine and believe, the result is that the arts are uncertain, while
they might be perfectly certain.—L. Bohme, “ Einbildung macht
Wesenheit”—imagination makes reality. Also the principle of
Idealism, that the objective is a projection from the subjective. In his
latest Fovs Clavigera, Mr. Buskin, if I read him rightly, proclaims his
belief in the literal truth of the physical efficacy attributed by Christ
to faith.
In this paper of Mr. Buskin is also to be found the passage from
Froude, describing the devotions of the Carthusian monks in London at
a time of imminent peril to their establishment and persons during the
Beformation:—
“ The third day after,” the story goes on, “ was the mass of the Holy
Ghost, and God made known his presence among us. For when the
host was lifted up, there came, as it were, a whisper of air, which breathed
upon our faces as we knelt. Some perceived it with the bodily senses ;
all felt it as it thrilled into their hearts. And then followed a sweet, soft
sound of music, at which our venerable father was so moved, God being
thus abundantly manifest among us, that he sank down in tears, and for a
long time could not continue the service, we all remaining stupefied,
hearing the melody and feeling the marvellous effect of it upon our
spirits, and knowing neither whence it came nor whither it went. Only
our hearts rejoiced as we perceived that God was with us indeed! ”—
Hist, of Eng., 8vo ed. 1870. Vol. II., p. 244. C. C. M.
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN HOMOEOPATHY ?
| Sir,—As you have opened your pages to the discussion of the question
of homoeopathy, I, having had about thirty years’ experience of that
system may be permitted to say a few words.
In the first place, I would observe that this system of medicine having
I been tested for eighty years, should have by this time yielded ample
I evidence as to its merits.
There is one noteworthy fact which distinguishes the medicine of the
present day from that of the past, and that is the almost entire abolition
of all severe remedies.
Even within thirty years of the present time inflammation was
regarded as a terrible enemy, only to be met, in the language of the
schools, by being “ knocked on the head ” by salivation, blistering, and
blood-letting. But for eighty years inflammation has been treated by
the homoeopath with perfect confidence by minute doses of aconite and
| other remedies, and lately, by the profession generally, with fomentations
j and mild medicinal substances.
| The homoeopathists have thus the merit of having demonstrated not
| only that the severest forms of disease could be successfully treated
without harsh remedies, but that all such were in acute inflammation
| homicidal.
For instance, in inflammation of the lungs, under bleeding, blistering,
| and salivating, twenty out of one hundred cases so treated died; while
only five out of one hundred cases of this disease died under homoeo¬
pathic treatment. Thus the common and ignorant remark that “homoeo¬
pathy was well enough when there was nothing much the matter, but
| worse than useless in dangerous disease,” has been shown to be the very
reverse of the truth.
Had homoeopathy done nothing more than lead to the abolition of
bleeding, blistering, and salivating, it would have conferred an inestim-
I able boon on the human race; but beyond this it has by its law of
' similars led to the application of an extraordinary number of most useful
Oct. 25, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
203
medicines, and these are now, within the last few years, being gradually I
introduced into the general practice of medicine with very happy I
results, )
Hahnemann, the founder of homoeopathy, was a man of great genius
and immense industry, but he was also a man of an intolerant habit of
mind; and thus it was that while Hippocrates, the father of medicine,
had said that “ some diseases were best treated by similars, and some I
by contraries,’’ Hahnemann, on the other hand, persisted in saying that j
diseases could be truly cured only by similars, and only effectually by
the infinitesimal dose. i
This one-sided and intolerant .spirit created much bitterness in the |
profession ; but within the last few years the more thoughtful homoeo- I
pathists have admitted that Hahnemann was so far wrong, and that the i
wise physician availed himself of all possible means in the treatment of
disease.
Accordingly we find that an eclectic system of medicine is the order of j
the day, and that comparatively large or small doses of medicine are
used according to circumstances, and that all manner of hydropathic
appliances—electricity, medical rubbing, mineral waters, and mesmerism j
—are extensively employed.
The future of medicine promises great results; but at the same time
hygiene, or the application of the ordinary laws of health in relation to |
food, air, exercise, temperance, cleanliness, marriage, the rearing of
children, and the right conduct of the mind, is destined to become the
most important factor, when prevention rather than cure will be regarded
as the highest aim of the physician. Geoxige AVvld, M.D., Edin,
Sir,—In reply to your contributor, my objection as an ignorant
inquirer has never been to “infinitesimal doses,” because the substances j
administered are strong poisons, consequently a large dose might be j
inconvenient.
If from the voluminous nauseous doses of the allopaths the active
principle could be extracted, and given me in large quantity, it might j
then also be a poison.
So my theory is that the same dose is possibly administered in both j
cases, but in that of the allopath given me ignorantly mixed with a pint j
of pig-wash, or sewage, which nobody among my scientific superiors
thinks it worth while to try to separate from the filth, under the present
commercial and other conditions, of the incompetence of the multitude
to put a single question to persons in authority about matters connected
with their own spiritual or material existence.
Consequently, as the one medicine was nice, and the other was
equivalent to drinking off the contents of the pail of the familiar
charwoman, and as both produced the same practical result, I accepted
that which most pleasantly achieved the desired effect, without forming
any opinion about any theory. Any vote of mine in favour of a theory
would at present be given to infinitesimal doses, and not to the doctrine
“ Like cures like.”
As an inquirer, I at present know of no evidence that when a man
has an attack of diarrhoea, and subsequently takes something known to
bring on that complaint, whether his second state would not be worse
than the first, because of his having taken something to add to the
primary internal disturbance.
If I am in good health, and take an overdose of the medicine [What
is its name ?] which is regularly and by advertisement given by homoeo¬
paths to cure diarrhoea, will it with certainty bring on an attack of that
complaint ? As an amateur martyr, I am inclined to put this point to
the test, and hope others will do so too. B.
SPIRITUALISM IN GERMANY.
Sir,—Will it be of any interest to your readers if I give them a
description of an evening spent in company with one of the finest
mediums it has yet been my good fortune to meet with?
I am an old friend of the cause, but though I have attended many
seances with different mediums, I never yet had such a conclusive test as j
was granted a few evenings ago.
I was detained in Leipzig for a few days, and accidentally heard of !
an English lady medium, Miss D’Esperance, who, like myself, was a j
visitor to this fine German town. With some difficulty I contrived to j
make her acquaintance, and prevailed upon her to pay us a visit. She
seemed reluctant to do so, saying she had had stances with some inves- j
tigators in the town, and they had been so unsuccessful that she did not ]
care much to try again with strangers. But at last she consented, and
I had the pleasure of welcoming her to my rooms in our hotel the same
evening. After a cup of tea we grew quite sociable, and then commenced j
the business of the night.
Miss D’Esperance proposed that as only my husband and I were pre- I
sent, it would be as well to have my maid with us. Accordingly we four
sat down to the table, on which paper and pencils were placed. The !
gas was turned low, but the room was not all dark.
The table soon began to move very rapidly, raps were heard, and the
paper and pencils were thrown twice on to the floor. The medium’s
hand wrote mechanically the words, “ Darken the room,” which we did
by closing the shutters at the window and lowering the gas still more. i
When this was done the medium became clairvoyant, and described
the forms and features of several spirits; one in particular interested
her, and from the description she gave we immediately recognised our
dear son, who was killed in Savoy two years ago. She told us how he
met his death, and in every particular was so exact and so truthful that
we were dumb with amazement.
You must remember that the young lady and myself had never known
each other before that day, and had had no conversation beyond the
merest commonplace.
When she had finished her description, I asked if Fritz would say, or
write something, to convince us of his identity—something so conclusive j
that none could gainsay it who had known him. Almost directly the I
medium’s hand began to write slowly and painfully; in five or six
minutes she declared the writing finished, and to our delight and surprise
found a message of fifty-two words from the lad to us, bis parents,
written badly, but legibly, and in perfect German—a language with
which Miss D’Esperance is quite unacquainted.
My husband asked the other controls some questions on one or two
scientific subjects in which he is interested, and was answered rapidly in
such terms as showed they possessed scientific knowledge of no mean
order.
We were very reluctant to let our pleasant evening be brought to a
close, especially as MisS D’Esperance is leaving Leipzig even sooner
than we, and there is no probability of our meeting on the Continent for
some time.
The manner of conducting the seance she left' to ourselves, and what
made the manifestations more remarkable, she chatted to us upon dif¬
ferent subjects while her hand was writing rapid replies to the most
abstruse scientific subjects. Questions that took some few minutes’
thought to propound were answered instantly, and with as much
technicality as any professor would have displayed. Will wonders ever
cease 1 The hand writing on “ spectrum analysis,” while the tongue
was trying to pronounce some German words, and laughing at the failure.
This was one of the most wonderful evenings I ever spent. The
medium was an entire stranger, a high-minded, gentle, ladylike girl, or
woman, for she cannot have seen her twenty-third or fourth year. We
never asked for tests till they came upon us, and when we did ask wo
got the best possible one we could have thought of.
Adelaide Kaiser.
Palmbaum Hotel, Leipzic, Germany, Oct. 19th.
BIGOTRY.
Judge Bedford, a prominent Spiritualist in Colorado, has been
nominated by one of the leading political parties in that State as a c^n_
didate for Congress, and his opponents of the other party are making
the air of that elevated region to resound with cries of “ Infidel ” and
“ Spiritualist,” coupled with creedal epithets of an exceedingly un-
Christian nature, it being sought to hide his capabilities as a inan under
a cloud of bigoted denunciation because of his disagreement with the
popular system of religion. The Pueblo Chieftain answers these highly
excited churchmen in. a manly fashion, devoting a column of its space to
the purpose. In the course of this article it affirms that “ the people of
Colorado are too enlightened and liberal to be deceived by a sham
religious enthusiasm,” declares that “the day of proscription on account
of rehgious opinion has gone by,” and calls attention to the “remarkable
fact that those who have the least possible amount of genuine religion in
their hearts, are the persons who will invariably lead the attack upon
those who happen to differ with them upon rehgious topics; while true
religion teaches charity toward all men.”
“A man,” says this fearless editor, “ cannot now say to his neighbour,
‘ If you don’t believe as I do you’ll certainly be damned,’ without being
laughed at; and it is also generally conceded that the high road to
celestial happiness in the world to come does not lie through the con¬
tracted portals of any one narrow-minded religious sect. Salvation is
! free, and every man may seek it as best suits his own rehgious ideas.
Many of the men who use this foolish electioneering cry against Judge
| Belford, would hold up their hands in holy horror at any attempt to
estabhsh a national religion throughout the United States. Were such
a thing mooted, a disturbance would be created that would shake the
I country to its very foundation; yet these self-same men indirectly
| advocate that identical relic of barbarism by attempting to prevent
| political honours being bestowed upon a man because his rehgious
opinions, forsooth, do not happen to agree with certain ill-defined ideas
which they may entertain concerning the Deity and certain estabhshed
forms of worship.”
| The following liberal sentiments expressed by the Chieftain, and with
which we close these citations, are especiahy commendable :—
‘1A man’s religious opinions are his own private property, and every
man is, thank God ! under the Constitution of the United States, secure
| in the privilege of worshipping God as he sees fit, or not worshipping
at all. Politics and religion are antagonistic elements, and, like oil
and water, refuse to blend in a free country where the people are
i educated, enlightened, and above those little mean prejudices born of
ignorance, and its twin sister, bull-headed bigotry.”—Banner of Light,
British Museum Lectures.—During the Christmas holidays a course
I of three lectures will be given in the British Museum (with the per-
I mission of the authorities) by Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doct. Sci., Lecturer
| on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital School of Medicine.
The days will be fixed before Christmas. Students who desire it may
be examined after the course. Applications for registry to be addressed
| to Dr. Carter Blake, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
A Warning.—William Gregory, eighteen years old, living at No. 2,
| Dover-street, was standing at Water-street and Peck-slip, Thursday
afternoon, with some companions, when a deaf and dumb man passed
by. Gregory began to make fun of the afflicted man, when suddenly he
felt a shock, and afterwards discovered that he had lost the sense of
speech and hearing. He hurried home and informed his parents of the
circumstance in writing. They took their son to the Chambers-street
Hospital, where the surgeon in charge examined him, but could make
nothing of the case. He endeavoured to frighten him by means of a
shock, but failed most signally. Young Gregory, when at the hospital,
| wrote on a piece of paper that his affliction was due to the “ will of God.”
The house surgeon at the hospital says that it is one of the most
singular cases that ever came under his observation.—iV. F. Tribune.
204
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 25, 1878.
“HE GIVETH HIS BELOVED SLEEP.”
The following poem, given through the trance mediumship of Lizzie
Doten, was such a favourite with her friend, the late Mr. George
Thompson, formerly M.P. for the Tower Hamlets, that he printed great
numbers on slips for public distribution :
Night drops her mantle from the skies,
And from her home of peace above
She watches with her starry eyes,
As with a tender mother’s love.
The sounds of toil and strife are stilled,
And in the silence calm and deep,
The word of promise is fulfilled,
“ He giveth his beloved sleep.”
The weary soul oppressed with care,
The young, the old, the strong, the weak,
The rich, the poor, the brave, the fair,
Alike the common blessing seek.
The child sleeps on its mother’s breast;
The broken-hearted cease to weep ;
For, answering to the prayer for rest,
“ He giveth his beloved sleep.”
Beneath the churchyard sod there lies
Full many a weary form at rest;
With death’s calm slumber in the eyes,
And pale hands folded on the breast.
Oh, ye who bend above the sod,
And tears of silent anguish weep,
Lean with a firmer faith on God—
“ He giveth His beloved sleep.”
Sleep, for the eye whose light has fled;
Sleep, for the weary heart and hand;
But not the sleep of those who tread
The green hills of the better land.
No restless nights of pain are theirs,
No weary watch for morn they keep,
But, through release from mortal cares,
il He giveth his beloved sleep.”
Lizzie Doten.
A YANKEE STOEY ABOUT A HAUNTED TELEPHONE.
{From the “ New York Sun.'")
Mr. John J. Ghegan, the night operator in the Newark office of
the Western Union Telegraph Company, is agent for Professor Phelps’
and Professor Edison’s telephones, and he has put up a large number
of both kinds of the instruments in Newark. About three months ago
he put up a Phelps telephone for Mr. J. J. O’Connor, the Catholic
bookseller and publisher for the diocese of Newark. Mr. O’Connor is
the agent for the cemetery of the Holy Sepulchre, in East Orange, two
miles from Mr. O’Connor’s store and residence, at No. 103, Washington-
street. He frequently has occasion to send orders and other com¬
munications to Mr. Eowe, the superintendent in the cemetery ; so he
determined to have a telephone to connect his store and the cemetery,
in order to save time and the expense of messengers. At the cemetery
is a small building used as an office by the superintendent, and in this
office Mr. Ghegan placed a telephone, which he connected with
another telephone in Mr. O’Connor’s house. No other telephone con- i
nects Newark with the cemetery of the Holy Sepulchre.
Mr. O’Connor was delighted with his telephone. It was a novelty, ]
and it worked like a charm. Mrs. O’Connor and her friends found
amusement in conversing through the instrument with persons in the i
cemetery. The telephone was thus kept in constant use for several i
days. By means of it orders could be sent at a minute’s notice to the j
cemetery for the opening of a grave. Mr. O’Connor told Mr. Ghegan
that he would not do without a telephone for any money.
At about four o’clock one morning, three weeks after the telephone |
was first used, Mr. and Mrs. O’Connor were awakened by a furious j
ringing of the call bell attached to the telephone in their room. I
Mr. O’Connor was surprised, because he knew that the office in the |
cemetery was locked every evening at six o’clock, when Super- |
intendent Eowe and all his assistants go home for the night. Mr. !
O’Connor thought, however, that some ruffians might have been caught j
defacing the monuments and tombstones, which had been done before, I
and that the police were wanted, so he answered the call, and asked j
through the speaking tube what was wanted. He received no reply
except ringing of the bell. This was repeated several times, but no I
answer came through the tube. j
Mr. O’Connor finally concluded that either the wire was being |
tampered with, or that some person had gained access to the cemetery I
office, and given an alarm in order to play a joke on him or annoy j
him. So he told Mr. Ghegan the next motning of his night’s j
experience.
Mr. Ghegan said that the call bell could not be rung unless some j
person turned the crank attached to the telephone in the cemetery office, j
neither could the bell be rung by tampering with the wire, because the \
bell is not rung by a battery, but by a magnetic alarm. Mr. Ghegan
questioned the men in the cemetery, but neither Superintendent Eowe i
nor any of his assistants had been in the cemetery after six o’clock on
the previous evening.
The little office was examined, and the windows and doors showed
no evidence of having been opened, nor were there any indications
that any one had been inside. No one • could account for the
mysterious alarm, so that Mr. Ghegan advised Mr. O’Connor to await
future developments.
Several nights later Mr. O’Connor and his wife were again awakened
by a furious ringing of the call bell of the telephone. Mr. O’Connor
could get no answer to his questions through the speaking tube. He
disconnected the wire, but the bell kept on ringing. His wife was so
thoroughly alarmed that she demanded that the instrument should be
removed from the house.
Mr. Ghegan and Superintendent Eowe then had the doors and
windows of the cemetery office so secured that no person could enter
and tamper with the telephone without leaving traces behind them.
On that very night the call bell again rang in Mr. O’Connor’s house.
The workmen in the cemetery then said that an evil spirit was the cause
of the trouble.
Mr. O’Connor wrote a letter to Mr. Ghegan, in wdiich he said :—
“ If you are in communion with departed spirits, we implore you to
see that they will not disturb us at unnecessary hours.”
Thereafter a watch was kept on the cemetery office at night; but
Mr. O’Conner still complained that the call bell was rung at night at
intervals.
Superintendent Eowe, Mr. O’Connor, and Mr. Ghegan still cannot
account for the mysterious signals. Some of the female neighbours of
the O’Connor’s are sure it is the work of spirits.
Mr. Ghegan said to the reporter of the Sun last evening :—
“ I am not superstitious, but I confess that this thing puzzles me.
A Spiritualist friend tells me he is certain a spirit has sent the signals
to Mr. O’Connor. I know many persons who have telephones in their
houses, and some of them are connected with others, yet I never have
received complaints from them. Mr. O’Connor’s telephone has no
connection, except with the cemetery. I have investigated the thing
for weeks, and cannot even suggest an explanation of the mystery, for
mystery it certainly is. If the instrument was run by a battery the
mystery could be explained ; but in this case I cannot understand it
at all. I hope we will soon find out the secret, for the sake of the
nervous women;”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
G. H. D.—Please put your name and address to your letter.
G. T.,' Bangalore, Madras.—We do not know where to get “ medallion
glasses,” and are not quite sure that it is satisfactorily proved that the
object gazed at has anything to do with the results, beyond concentrating
the gaze and the thoughts’of a mesmeric sensitive. Some people who have
the power find glasses of water or earthenware knobs of doors to answer
the purpose. The vocabulary you propose would he a limited one, there
being so few new terms, but the faster scientific research progresses, the
faster must new words be invented. The advance of knowledge is to
some extent indicated by the growth of language.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens,
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Sph'itualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A. ;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams)
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, Londcp,
Oct. 25, 1878
THE SPIRITUALIST
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other,]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at thejOourt of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, E.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
, The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia .
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III.
The Reformer. „ IY. „
The Thinker. ^ • •
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil . • .
Harbinger of Health , . . . •
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing flarmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Yictims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . . • •
s. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
.38
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 5 0
.60
. 2 6
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . •24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The SriniTUALisi Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... 5
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China ito India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Ansesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Coliyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . ■ . 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, IF. (7,
Or of Messrs. Oolby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
Tar from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—NowfA 'Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III ^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IY Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—^Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter YII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr, H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. It. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVl Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt-
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t&
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. I and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, O. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage.'paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, ill 10s,
London: W. H. Harrison 38, Great RusseU-street, W.C.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYGHOGRAPHY,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. HS Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black-
bum (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writin;
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. E. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monok were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful hook to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—.
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burae—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D .—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsuoht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthcdox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “M.A. Oxon.’’—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. B afke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Os.on.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzi;;) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrisdii—
Meditation and the Voica of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Erie Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Masaey—■
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritual.sm
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Kusse,
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may lie
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, pride
300 far Sixpmce, post free, or 500 for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should he multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed^ information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age/
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 25, 1878,
A NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATUBJB DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS 
T ORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing dosease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Rimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Siomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
CANO’S FRUIT SALT.—“Amongst the many
i—^ and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from- poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.’’—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
fi?NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
J-i “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
ENG'S' FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
l “ Everything,' medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.” *
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN T&E WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
JTlNO’S FRUIT SALT,
U AS A
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in. which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous, system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.  
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
i s particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
TTiNO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
-iAi products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known; not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jim., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease: 
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
orless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
out very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous,' annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Outof gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please.—I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—End’s Frdit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent Paris— PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAEX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1, The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The.
Lay of the Fat Man.—8. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Yision.—22. “Underthe Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—20. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. . ..
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Qaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability... . Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all Ul-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal qf Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
coimection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in' pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a* very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays,”
From The Bristol Daily Post. „
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit. . .. The serious and sentimental verses belong, to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News-.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite'as much good in their day and
generation as the authors' of Hie most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome."
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” VN.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.\ ... “It contains some veiw choice poems
and prose essays, isoound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wit. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author hy Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy ■with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—Tntro vision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, ana of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must he Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
ExtasiS—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S >i ritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural _ Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—^Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcrart—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—Phenomena Observed in the Couscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathie Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Bbvebidge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the fdartyr, I.ond m. and published by E, W Allen, Ave
Haria-lano, Londc a, E.C.
