Registered as a Newse^fer.
fflfe SffijpM toftj S^idtualism ht <$xmt grMtt.
No. 414.—(Yol. XYIL—No. L) LONDON : FRIDAY, JULY 30, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES lill A IT BY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be'given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HAFTOYER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An 'interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
Demy 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges. Price 12s. 6d. Post Free. Will be ready in a few days.
ILLUSTRATED BY VARIOUS FULL PACE AND DOUBLE PAGE ENGRAVINGS.
TRANSCENDENTAL PHYSICS.
AN ACCOUNT OF EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS FROM THE SCIENTIFIC TREATISES OF
JOHANN CARL FRIEDRICH ZOLLNER,
Professor of Physical Astronomy at the University of Leipsio ; Member of the Royal Saxon Society of Sciences ; Foreign Member of the
Royal Astronomical Society of London; of the Imperial Academy of Natural Philosophers at Moscow; and Honorary Member of the
Physical Association at Frankfort-on-the-Main.
TRANSLATED from the german, with a preface and appendices, by
CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY, (of Lincoln’s inn, Barrister-at-Law.)
Tine Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33. Museum Street, London, W.C.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of. what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the berefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited witn naving written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 30, 1880.
ALLAN KARDEC’S
WORKS.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND «H ELL (1868). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 3 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
Price 7s. 6d. Tbtjbkeb and Co., London.
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
Is now in America and will resume his Steinway
Hall lectures on the third Sunday in October.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
A New Invention.
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
S PIR ITU AL ISM:—TRANCE DISCOURSE.
MRS. CORA L. Y. RICHMOND
(Formerly Mrs. Tappan)
Will deliver a discourse under the control of her spirit guides in
ST. JAMES’S HALL
(Entrance in Regent Street)
THURSDAY EVENINGS, JULY 22nd, 29th, AND AUGUST 5th, AT 8 O’CLOCK.
To close with an improvised poem. Tickets 2s., Is., and 6d. maybe obtained by letter of
Mrs. Strawbridge, 4, Dorset Square, N. W., or at the Hall on the evening.
Price 5s. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth. Red edges. The new Book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY; OR DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING
Illustrated with diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
TEE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Phis book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is fall of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
HEALING BY LAYING ON OF HANDS
DR. JAMES MACK,
Care of the Editor of The Banner of Light, 9,
Montgomery Place, Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
D. YOUNGER,
Mesmerist, Mesmeric Healer, Medical Rubber,
gives private instructions. Mesmeric Seances and
Electro-biological Entertainments at Home or by
appointment. Can also supply Mesmeric Sensitives
for Private Experiments, At Home daily from 2 till 10.
23, Ledbury-road, Bayswater, W.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
TV/TRS. WOODFORDE Any form
_LijL Of Mediumship developed. Mesmeric Healing
at home daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from I
to 5 p.m., 4, JEeppel-street, Russe 11-square, W.C.
pHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, eare of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone road, Earls-court, S.W.
Two Shillings and Sixpence, in Stamps, free by post.
nPHEOSOPHY, and the Higher Life:
JL or Spiritual Dynamics and the Divine and
Miraculous Man. By George Wyld, M.D., President
British Theosophical Society. Contents: Man as a
Spirit—The Key to Theosophy—The Divine and Mira¬
culous Man—How best to become a Tbeosophist—
Anaesthetics Demonstrate the existence of the Soul—
The British Theosophical Society.
Trubner, Ludgate Hill, or David Scott. 164, Oxford
Street.
A RLISS ANDREWS, Letterpress,
JL\. Copperplate, and Lithographic Printer, 31,
Museum-street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Three doors
from Great Russell-street.
Hell opened to Chris¬
tians.—This'is one of the most objectionable
orthodox books ever published, and contains pictures
of the infernal regions calculated to strike terror into
the hearts of children and people with weak nerves.
Cloth, eight illustrations. Post free sevenpence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch office, 33, Museum
Street, London, W.C.
FOR OCCUPATION, in the private
residence of a Spiritualist, Superior Drawing
Rooms—also Two Reception Rooms are at liberty for
Patients. Apply by letter.
MEDICUS, 77, Edgware Road, Hyde Park, W. 4
pHINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
\J WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Eai then ware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system
J. M. DALE,
50, Crawford-street, Bryanston-square, London.
l»
eJMs
p>1»
% xtf % xtf nttb xrf
No. 414.—VOLUME SEVENTEEN; NUMBER FIVE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 30th, 18 8 0.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Peice Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist :—
His Imperial Highness Ni¬
cholas of Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
of Caithness
The Baroness Yon Yay, Coun¬
tess Wurmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Aesakof,
St. Petersburg
Sir Charles Ishah, Bart.
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holm-
feld (Holstein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
the Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M. Adelberth de Bourbon,First
Lieut, of the Dutch Guard to
the King of the Netherlands
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq., F.R S.
C. F. VARLEY,JEsq.,C.E., F.R.S.
Stock, Esq.,
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,I St. George W
F.R.G.S., M.A., (Oxon)
C. C. Massey, Esq. R. Fbiese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of Major-General Maclean
the Psychological Society of J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Great Britain Epes Sargent, Esq.
Alexander Calder, Esq., Pres- Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
ident of the British National J.P.
Association of Spiritualists Dr. George Wyld
Colonel H. S. Oloott, President W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.
of the Theosophical Society of | M.D., Melbourne
New York
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Captain John James
5. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
F. Podmore, Esq., B.A. (Oxon).
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
DJD.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
C Blackburn, Esq., Parkfield,
Didsbury, near Manchester
Mrs. Louisa Lowe
J. T. Markley, Esq.
Herr Christian Reimers
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Bareas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Marthezb, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Marryat
Madame Isabel de Steiger
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 83, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai ; 51 East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S. ; Beligio-Philosophical Journal Office, Chicago ; 819, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
MATERNAL GOVERNMENT.
Many exceedingly intelligent people are re¬
investigating the time-honoured subject of
Astrology, and think that it is based upon a
certain proportion of facts, although in its
present stage it is beset with empiricism, in¬
accuracies and uncertainties. A society also
has been formed to deal with the whole
subject. Furthermore, recent researches in
physics at Kew Observatory and elsewhere,
have proved that the positions of some of the
planets have an influence upon sun-spots, a
totally unexpected revelation of the action of
one or more heavenly bodies on another, and
the question has been seriously raised whether
some connection does not exist between solar
disturbances and epidemic diseases upon our
earth. With this spirit of free inquiry abroad,
why should a man who is conscientiously a
professional astrologer and of use to others
who think that the planets may have an in¬
fluence over organic life, be harassed by the
police and by policemen’s wives? We have
heard at rare intervals of the Mr. Wilson men¬
tioned in the following paragraph, and he was
always spoken of as a respectable man, pursuing
a peaceful calling. The paragraph is from The
Standard of Friday last:—
“Thomas Wilson, 73, a medical galvanist,
who also described himself as an “astrologer,”
of 103, Caledonian-road, was brought up on a
warrant by Inspector Peel, of the G division,
and charged with unlawfully pretending to tell
the fortune of Elizabeth Cook, of King’s-cross-
road.—Mrs. Cook, who is the wife of a police-
constable, said she went to the prisoner’s house,
in company with another woman, on the 15th.
inst., and also on the following Monday. On
the first occasion the Prisoner’s Wife told her
that Mr. Wilson could not give her any in¬
formation until he knew when she was born.
On the Monday, Mrs. Cook went to the house
again, and told the Prisoner that she was born
on the 28th of August, 1843, at seven o’clock
in the morning. The Prisoner then told her
that she had delicate health, had been in pecu¬
niary difficulties, which she would soon be
freed from, and described a man who, when
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 30, 1880
she was 45 years of age, would propose to her
and whom she was to avoid. The Prisoner
also told her some things which were true, as
when she was married, when she had been ill,
and certain things she had done. She at the
end of the conversation gave the Prisoner 2s.,
which was what he charged.—Mrs. Hardy
also gave evidence.—It was stated that when
the Prisoner was taken in charge be said he
did not tell fortunes ; he was an astrologer.—
The Prisoner now said that what he had done
did not come under the Yagrant Act. He had
not deceived any one, he had merely told the
truth, and had given some advice. He was an
astrologer, and was acquainted with science, and
had been visited by many people for years. He
had formerly pursued his calling in Hew York.
He supposed the two witnesses ' had been
specially sent to him by the police, who
wished to bring a charge against him.—Mr.
Parstow said there was no evidence that the
Prisoner had deceived or defrauded anybody,
and he must be discharged. But the Prisoner
must be careful as to his conduct, for if he was
again brought up he might be sent to prison.’5
Another case of the officiousness of the
police, was published in The Spiritualist last
week. They sent two women to an alleged
trance speaker in Leicester, and then caused
her to be fined at a police court, although it
was announced in court that two doctors in
the town knew her to possess the power of
second sight.
At the speed with which the existing
organisations in Spiritualism appear to be
moving, half-a-dozen more persons who pos¬
sibly may be conscientiously dealing with
occult subjects, may be persecuted and punished
before the grievance is pointed out to the
Home Secretary ; and so long as the authorities
are not made aware of the nature of the case,
they cannot well be blamed for the persecution
set on foot by ignorant people.
A request for an alteration of the law would
be of little use, or at any rate years would
pass before a successful result could be
achieved. The administration of the law is
chiefly in fault, and the Home Office should
instruct its uninformed subordinates that it is
no part of their duty to persecute people who
conscientiously deal with occult subjects, or
who are recognised as possessing abnormal
spiritual and physiological powers by those
who understand psychology, consequently who
are alone competent to express an opinion.
Fortunately, Sir William Harcourt wisely
detests the unnecessary meddling of officials
j5>j with the liberty of the subject, and likes to
j)| see social problems settling themselves when-
m ever that is possible. Moreover, justice is
m often perverted and the law strained from its
j>j original intention, to meet the demands of
h] popular ignorance and prejudice. Yeryhonour-
Kj able and straightforward mediums are some-
i I times prosecuted under the Yagrancy Act;
j)i but, as was stated recently at a public meeting,
Isj a medium is not a vagrant; he has a home and
j<j is usually to be found there, and the social
| circle in which he moves is often ten or twenty
:)j times more respectable than that of the persons
Is I who attack him. The fees of a medium for a
| i good seance, are more honourably earned than
I?| the fees received as pew-rents for preaching
the horrible doctrines of total depravity and
is! eternal damnation.
Some persons go so far as to say that in
w\ cases of actual fortune-telling, there is no
j | necessity for the law to interfere, because the
Kj deluded ones deserve all the deception they
k| get, and their folly brings its own punishment,
m This may be true as regards the deceived, but
!>! the law ought to interfere with intentional
Kj swindling. But at present the lower adminis-
K trators of the law are densely ignorant about
!?! abnormal physiological and spiritual conditions,
j;j and are punishing innocent and respectable
jsj people, thereby bringing the law and the
k| Government into contempt in the eyes of the
I! thousands upon thousands of Spiritualists in
j this country. Had Dr. Tanner been in this
I country, he would long since have been laid
j by the heels in Newgate, the settling of deli-
II cate problems in science being here relegated
I to the average policeman and Justice of the
| Peace.
 ^ 
Mrs. Hardinge-Britten will fulfil engagements in
j New York in September, so at all events will not leave
! for England before that month.
The Inpluenue of Reaction :—No man can read the
?! pages of Church history without seeing the marvellous
sj power of reaction. Superstition produces unbelief;
)! unbelief produces superstition. All exaggeration both
cj leads and drives, both attracts and repels. Some minds
Sj love exaggeration, and will follow a one-sided teacher
into any extreme. Other minds are driven by this same
one-sided teaching into as dangerous an extreme in the
>j opposite direction. Like the pendulum of a clock, the
?; farther thought goes in one way, the farther also does
Si it swing in the reverse motion. In Romanist countries
)! no middle place is possible. You must either be a
(i devotee or a sceptic. At Oxford things were never quite
S so bad, but excessive claims on the side of faith were
)i met by excessive claims on the side of reason. In this
(i very composite nature of ours, if you j udiciously ignore
Sj any part, or if you push any part into undue activity,
?! reaction is sure to take place, and what was neglected
(\ takes its turn as the dominant faculty for the hour.—
\(\ The Dean of Canterbury.
July 30, 1880 THE S PIE
THE TEANSPOETATION OF SOLID OBJECTS \S
AT A SEANCE.
BY MAJOR-GENERAL G. W. P. MACLEAN.
The following is a statement of an interesting j>
occurrence which took place at the rooms of |s
Captain James, 129, Gower Street, London, on K
Saturday, July 17th.
The medium present was Mr. Eita, and I?
the party consisted of Captain James, Miss |>
Eiccalton, Mrs. Western, Mr. and Mrs. Pletcher, I s
Mr. Wheelhouse, Signor Eondi, Mr. Wilding, K
and myself; and no sooner had seats been |/
occupied round the table and the light extin- j>
guished, than the voice of Charles Barry was K
heard addressing Mrs. Western (on this, the I?
first occasion of her sitting in this circle of |>
friends) and saying, (i I have brought some- j)
thing for you.” A hard substance was then |<
placed in Mrs. Western’s hands, which, on a R
light being struck at Charley’s desire, proved |>
much to her astonishment to be an old silver |S
brooch which had been in her possession up-
wards of thirty years, and was the gift of a ?
deceased relative; this brooch she had left in >
a box in her house in Kensington.
Shortly after this interlude the light was K
again extinguished; most of the persons pre- j>
sent were soon touched by unseen materialised !>
hands and were freely fanned all round; both
Mrs. Western and myself were mesmerised by k
unseen though materialised hands, which made j?
the usual mesmeric passes down the head and j>
face, and along the arms and back; the name IS
of a very near and dear deceased relative was k
whispered as being the mesmeriser, who |>
<( Charley ” informed us was the spirit who |>
had brought the brooch which had been given $
to Mrs. Western.
Before the stance commenced, I had been |>
requested by Captain James to take charge of !>
a double folding slate; this was cleaned, tied <
and sealed, and the edges secured by gummed |;
paper by two of the party; it was carried R
upstairs by me, and never out of my custody j>
until after it was opened and examined at the k
close of the stance.
Shortly after the termination of the sitting, b
Charley said: il The spirit of the old lady who |
brought the brooch is about to try to write her
initials in the slate. Hold it up, and hold it >
tight.” He also informed us that this was the l>
same spirit who had throughout the stance |>
mesmerised Mrs. Western and myself. The |5
noise of writing was then distinctly heard j?
within the slate, which, on being opened at >
the close of the stance, was found to contain K
he initials 0. W., which were those of (the
ITUALIST. 51
maiden name) of the near relative above men¬
tioned, and agreed with the name which had
been whispered as the mesmeric operator.
During the continuance of the stance
<c Charley” materialised several times most
clearly; he even brought bon-bons from
another part of the room and drew crackers
with several of the party, the sudden loud re¬
ports of which were somewhat startling in the
middle of the silence and stillness of a dark
stance. Materialised appearances of other
spirits were also seen, but they disappeared so
very suddenly that they were not recognised
by any of the party.
It may here be remarked that after the close
of the stance various manifestations took place
in the light, and several articles flew with
considerable force from the mantelpiece across
the room, while the medium was at a distance
from them. The most conspicuous of these
were two sea-shells, which nearly always take
an active part on such occasions as that which
has now been narrated. Their usual place is
on Captain James’ mantelpiece, but they fre¬
quently fly off it against the door or wall, and
out into the passage; one of them has even
been known to make its sudden appearance,
and that with considerable noise, down two
flights of stairs in the middle of a party who
were quietly drinking tea shortly after the ter¬
mination of a stance in the room above. This
may seem a somewhat curious and eccentric
proceeding on the part of a shell, but it is
nevertheless perfectly true, and can be vouched
for as such by several trustworthy witnesses.
59, Gloucester Gardens, Hyde Park, London, July 20 th, 1880.
Dr. :—Last Saturday morning, Dr. James
Mack, the healing medium, and Signor Eondi, set sail
from Liverpool for the United States, where they will
spend about three months, and visit some of the
American Spiritualistic Camp-Meetings, which are a
fOature of the movement in that country. Dr. J. II.
Currier, having accepted the position of Chairman of
Meetings at the forthcoming Camp-Meeting at Shaw-
sheen Diver Grove, has absented himself for the purpose
from Boston for a time. Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten
will lecture at the Lake Pleasant and Neshaming Grove
Camp-Meetings in August.
British Museum Lectures :—On Tuesday last Dr.
Carter Blake delivered a lecture (in the French language)
to a select party of Greek and French ladies and gentle¬
men on the “ Autographs and Collections of Letters of
Distinguished Men contained in the Manuscript Depart¬
ment.” He pointed out especially the deterioration in
handwriting, observable from mediaeval times to the
present, selecting the autographs of Ariosto and
Macaulay as examples. The greater care to the
minutiae of education paid in the reigns of the Stuart
Kings than under later dynasties was commented on ;
and he concluded with some remarks on the gradual
deterioration of intellect, education, and morals.—Public
Opinion.
52
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 30, 1680
OCCULT POWERS OF A DOG jSj
The Popular Science Monthly, for July, has Kl
two articles which are alike in the fact that Rj
they concede a state of absolute incapacity, on |)|
the part of men of science, to explain certain m
yery ordinary but entirely inexplicable mental m
phenomena. Under the title, “A Zoological K|
Enigma,” Dr. Oswald narrates the experiments |?|
adopted by some physicians in Ohio to deter- i>|
mine whether the faculty of returning to a jM
particular place or house, from great distances, k|
which is present in some animals and absent in ]?|
others, is the result of an exercise of scent, or |>|
of memory, or, indeed, of any other known js|
faculty.
A dog was made insensible with ether at \c\
Cincinnati, put into a wicker basket, started |)j
on a train of the Cincinnati Southern Railroad, Kl
first southwest to Danville Junction, thence K|
east to Crab Orchard, and finally northeast to a
hunting rendezvous near Berea in Madison i
County. This circuitous route was taken be- i
cause, on a former occasion, when the dog had |<]
returned from a point 163 miles distant from |?l
his home, it was suspected that he might have m
found his way back by simply reversing his i
course on the railway by which he had come. j<
At Berea the dog was shut up securely over l?j
night and well fed. The next morning he was |>|
taken out to a clearing, on the top of a grassy m
knob at some distance from the railway, and j
was let loose. Without any preliminary survey k|
he slunk off into a ravine, scrambled up the I
opposite bank, and struck first on a trot and Kj
then a swift gallop, not towards Crab Orchard, |
i. e., south-east, but due north, in a bee line for |
Cincinnati. He ran not like an animal that |;j
has lost its way, but “like a horse On a tram- i
way,” straight ahead with his nose well up, as }
if he were following an air line towards a visi- Id
ble goal. He made a short detour to the left i
to avoid a lateral ravine, but further up he |)|
resumed his original course, leaped a rail fence js!
and went headlong into a coppice of cedar m
bushes, where they finally lost sight of him. ]>
The report of the experimenters was forwarded i
to the owner by rail, and on the afternoon of K|
the next day after receiving this report the j
owner met the dog on the street in Cincinnati, >
“ wet, full of burrs and remorse, and apparently jSj
ashamed of his tardiness. ”' Dr. Oswald says: — Kj
“That settled the memory question. Till a
they reached Crab Orchard the dog had been Pi
under the influence of ether, and the last thing |>i
he could possibly know from memory was a <j
misleading fact, viz., that they had brought him ?j
from a southwesterly direction. Between Berea
and Cincinnati he had to cross two broad rivers
and three steep mountain ranges and had to
pass by or through five good-sized towns, then
centres of a network of bewildering roads and
by-roads. He had never been in that part of
Kentucky before, nor ever within sixty miles
of Berea. The inclination of the watershed
might have guided him to the Kentucky River,
and by and by back to the Ohio, but far below
Cincinnati and by an exhaustingly circuitous
route. The weather, after a few days of warm
rains, had turned clear and cool, so that no
thermal data could have suggested the fact that
he was two degrees south of his home. The
wind, on that morning, varied from west to
northwest; and, if it wafted a taint of city
atmosphere across the Kentucky River Moun¬
tains, it must have been from the direction of
Frankfort or Louisville. So, what induced
the dog to start due north ?”
Upon the question of scent he suggests:
“A nose that can track the faint scent of
a rabbit through thickets of aromatic herbage
might easily distinguish the atmosphere of a
reeking manufacturing town at a distance of
ten miles. At fifty miles it might be barely
possible under the most favorable conditions of
wind and weather j at one hundred and fifty
miles it seems impossible under all circum¬
stances.”
THE DEATH-WATCH.
I have read the letter in this week’s Spi¬
ritualist signed L. F. S., and also your valu¬
able remarks at the foot of it.
Remarking on those remarks, it may be
conceded, for the sake of peace, that a little
hot water poured into the crack between the
boards in which the death-watch usually works,
will stop the omens—and further that when
the ticking occurs in, on, within or at the back
of a lath and plaster wall, the drilling of a
small hole and judicious use of a squirt, would
possibly secure the same desirable result—pro¬
viding always, of course that the operator
succeeds, in either case, in hitting exactly on
the beetle; and there will, doubtless, be the
most perfect unanimity in agreeing, that
patience, in waiting a sufficient time after
hearing the sounds, will be rewarded.
Painful personal experience, however, com¬
pels me to think that the “ Death-Watch ” is
not to be got rid of so easily.
In the Autumn of 1867, I knew nothing of
Spiritualism, and laughed at everything bor¬
dering on so called superstition; two of my
children were recovering, as I supposed, from
July 80, 1880
THE SPIRITUALIST.
scarlet fever, and my mother was lying, severely,
if not dangerously ill from some other cause.
One night, at the usual ghostly hour, a little
after midnight, I was sitting reading, alone,
in the sitting room, when this awful ticking
commenced.
It sounded, in succession, from the centres
of the four walls of the room, thus depriving
me of the comfort of taking refuge in the beetle
theory. To make sure of not being mistaken, I
stopped the clock on the mantle-piece, also my
watch.
I felt it was a warning of death, and al¬
though circumstances pointed to my mother, a
something, which I cannot describe, made me
feel convinced that I was about to lose the
younger of my then convalescent, children;
which happened ten days later. I may mention
that on this occasion the ticking visited me on
two consecutive nights.
Either the unseen world communicates with
this or it does not; if it does, there is nothing
very outrageous in supposing that it gives us
warning of approaching disaster, and it would
be unwise to say that such communications
cannot come through the ticking of an insect,
the flight of a bird, or the howling of a dog.
In the year 1866,1 was living in the country
near Montreal, when, about 5 o’clock one
summer morning we were all awakened by a
clatter that made us suppose all the lower
windows and doors of the house were being
broken into at once. I rushed down stairs
with my revolver, met my cousin coming out
of his room, also armed: went to the front door,
out,' round and about the house, and found
nothing. Situated as the house was, no one
near could have made the disturbance we heard,
and no one could have got away from the place
without being observed. The same night, but
earlier, our servant, an Irish girl, heard, as she
alleged, a rat drinking water on her wash-stand
and told us it portended a death in the family.
I never before heard of this particular phase of
so-called superstition, but the death of the
head of the family, unexpectedly, followed, in
a few days; whether that death had anything
to do with the burglarious racket or water¬
drinking rat it is of course impossible to say ;
the whole affair may bo shelved as coincidence,
and so disposed of, but there is a method about
it that bears to me the appearance of something
very different.
Last September my children were on a visit
at the sea-side; I was left alone in town and
naturally somewhat anxious about them and
also one of my brothers. One night about on
o’clock, as I was reading in bed, a noise com¬
menced on or in the frame of the door, just at
the back of my head; I scarcely know how to
describe it—it was not a rap, or a knock, or a
tick, but a peculiar kind of hollow thud, that I
never beard before and do not want to hear
again. It beat with the regularity of clock¬
work, at first only a few beats, then a pause of
some minutes, followed by a longer succession
of beats then another pause, and so on until it
settled down steadily to work for about two
hours.
It is difficult to describe the state of mind
produced by this awe-striking, mysterious,
monotonous sound. I succeeded in getting a
communication to the effect that it was a warn¬
ing, but of what or for whom I could not tell.
Naturally I was anxious about my children,
my brother, and myself, and did what I pre¬
sume a good many do when in trouble—
sought refuge in prayer. I prayed that it might
be revealed to me in sleep for whom the warn¬
ing was, and in a dream that followed, the
prayer appeared to be answered, for I assisted
at the death, certainly of a friend, but one of
whom I had not been thinking, and who went
over to the majority shortly afterwards.
Although it appears impossible to shut one’s
eyes to the actuality of these phenomena, I do
not think they are to be implicitly relied on.
Mrs. Phelps in one of her books, gives the
case of some one in New York whose death was
fixed for a certain day through seven different
and independent sources, and I am just now
waiting to see whether a similar event comes
off on the 23rd prox., it having been foretold
by “Planchette” and by dreams indifferent
quarters. R. M.
July 19th, 1880.
The Psyche Club :—A club with this name has been
!> established, consisting of members who are interested
id in the investigation of spiritual and psychological
phenomena. Nearly all its managers have just left for
| the Continent, and according to arrangements made this
(j week, on their return in October the active work of the
club for the winter season will begin. The meetings
id take place as yet in the homes of the members, and will
1i be held fortnightly when the cold weather sets in.
Art EscouRAaEMENT:—Order-hunters are passion¬
ately fond of theatrical entertainments. They are not
paupers, and can well afford to pay to witness a play.
| Assuming their time to be worth, per hour, the smallest
i coin of the realm, they spend, in their efforts to obtain
an order, considerably more than it would cost them
Iwere they to buy a seat. When once they have been
i blooded with an “ order,” it becomes, however, a per-
i feet mania with them to enter a theatre gratis. Instead
of realising the fact that they are as mean and con-
| temptible a class of human beings as exists on the face
j of the globe, they glory in their shame. They cringe,
, J flatter, and teaze for “orders.”—Truth.
o
54
THE SPIRITUALIST. July 30, 1880
A PRIVATE SEANCE.
Last Monday night a seance wes held at 129,
Gower Street, London, by invitation of Cap¬
tain John James; the guests present were Mr.
J. Cecil Husk (the medium), Mrs. Showers,
Mr. Nugent James, Mrs. Nugent James
(formerly Miss Showers), Miss Riccalton, Miss
Moore, Mr. Wheelhouse, Miss Bland, and Mr.
Harrison. The seance was a dark one, and the
manifestations unusually powerful. All the
usual phenomena took place, in the shape of
the hat-like flight of playing musical instru¬
ments which now and then gently touched the
heads of the sitters, spirit voices, and the
touch of hands. Lights were seen, and several
times the head and bust of an illuminated
spirit form. An exceedingly heavy arm-chair
was floated over the head of Mr. Husk and
placed on the top of the table, and a few
moments afterwards Mr. Husk was placed in
the chair; the sitters on either side of him
testified that they held his hands at this time.
When a light was struck, Mr. Husk with his
hands held, was seated in the arm-chair on the
top of the table. Miss Bland and others had
the u chair test.’, Once in the course of the
sitting a gas-globe was smashed, and the
pieces fell upon the table. One of the spirits
collected all the broken glass in the dark, and
put it in one corner of the fender behind the
medium. The strong voice of this spirit could
be heard as if his mouth were close to the
floor; he made much noise with the fire-irons,
and jocularly and romantically remarked:
“Come, 0 come, where the fire-irons blow! ”
During most of the sitting Mr. Husk’s hands
were held, and when the question was raised,
at a vital point, whether his hands were at that
particular moment held, the aforesaid jocular
spirit sarcastically remarked “Yes. Hold him
tight! What right has he to be a medium ? ”
These manifestations were all the more
striking, because Mr. Husk suffers from the
sad affliction of partial blindness, so that in day¬
light he is just able to find his way from place
to place with difficulty
Mr. A E. Giles and other well-known American
Spiritualists are in London.
Next Thursday evening at eight o’clock, Mrs. Tappan-
Richmond will deliver a trance address at St. James’s
Hall.
Mr. James Coates, of Glasgow, is bringing out a
publication entitled The Phreno-Magnet and Mesmeric
Programme. It has a highly sensational woodcut on the
front page, representing mesmeric effects.
At a private seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s
a few days ago, at which the Rev. Sir "William
Dunbat and others were present, Mrs. Tappan-Rich¬
mond delivered several inspirational poems while she
was in the trance state.
MESMERISING A HALE-DROWNED MAN.
The Scotsman of July 19th contains the
h following paragraph :—u An excursionist from
<i Glasgow, named John M’Arthur, iron ship-
(\ builder, residing in Par tick, went into the
si water to the West of Dunoon pier on Satur-
<| day, and soon after it was noticed that he was
(| in a distressed state. His son at once swam
S| to his assistance, caught him just as he was
<| sinking, and being an excellent swimmer,
?j brought his father to the shore. M’Arthur
;| was much exhausted, but refused to take any
| brandy to restore him. Professor Coates,
<i mesmerist, who was present, put M’Arthur
<; under mesmerism, and administered a glass of
p brandy, which speedily brought him round.”
SPIRITUALISM IN GERMANY.
By Christian Reimers.
BERLIN.
After the pleasing influence soon after my
<| arrival in Hamburg, of being amongst a body
?| of Spiritualists, I felt a little damped in Berlin
>| on finding myself left to chance to succeed
;| in satisfying my desire of meeting friends of
c| the cause. The reception of Herr Briese,
(I however, in whose hotel, the “Crown Prince,”
I took up my quarters, made me feel at home
;| at once, and I engaged the room Dr. Slade
! resided in, as a matter of course. Mr. Briese
; j is a Spiritualist of solid make, for the sittings
<| with Dr. Slade only confirmed and freshly
<| inspired his belief of long before, but the
-! moral courage with which he stepped forward
! to confess and defend his conviction, although
|>| aware of the dangers before him, commands
U sincere respect. Between manly openness and
d reckless enthusiasm lies a vast difference in
>! practical results, for Herr Briese’s social and
S| material position has not been in the least
n| impaired by his advocacy of an unpopular
H subject, but has rather prepared for surer
d future progress, especially if, as.it is hoped,
Dr. Slade will be in Berlin again ere long.
<| Spiritualists who go fast ahead, find themselves
d more or less alienated from former associations
Si and long for congenial surroundings, and
si those who have to stop at the antagonistic
Jj Kaiserstadt, would do well to seek shelter at
the “ Crown Prince Hotel.” If a split of a
>j personal or local nature temporarily prevents
sj a desirable and harmonious organisation in
(| Berlin, perhaps after learning how the doctrines
?| of the new light gently disperse ideas of
>| personal glory, the excellent powers at work
d here will one day unite and raise a signal
?| which will attract widespread attention.
Professor Breslauer has, by his scientific
July 30, 1880
THE SPIRITUALIST.
accomplishments already thrown many a
bridge across sceptical currents, and has at
least produced a respectful suspension of judg¬
ment about Spiritualism in learned quarters,
whilst many desire to take advantage of ex¬
perimental opportunities. We had a short
sitting with a private medium, who may
prove in time very useful. Professor Breslauer
understands the spirit of the age, and there¬
fore advocates practical experiments to con¬
vince his hearers of a new revelation of
nature. Herr Director Liebing, who has
witnessed nearly all the manifestations long ago
in America, forms the centre of another group
of Spiritualists here, and a social evening with
this deeply interested inquirer I consider to
be one of my most agreeable and instructive
experiences in Berlin, but in regard to careful
study, combined apparently with rather liberal
enthusiasm, I enjoyed beyond measure the
company of Herr Hoguet in Potzdam. His
artistic nature enlivens conversation in every
direction, but one of the most remarkable
narratives he related to me about spiritual
manifestations, was how he obtained the print
of a materialised face on smoked paper. He
showed it to me, and it was a most curious
piece of work. The eyes, or rather the sur¬
rounding lashes and hair, also the skin-lines
and tip of the nose, showed unmistakably,
somewhat like a face gently pressed on a dewy
window-pane; but that so many parts of the
features could touch a plane surface, suggests
almost the formation of a pliable face. Herr
Hoguet is, in one sense, the centre of the
movement in Berlin, for he was the first who
infected others with curiosity and lasting
interest, a result rarely attained by warm
enthusiasts. Individual efforts in Berlin pro¬
duced an encouraging impression on my mind,
nevertheless, the general tone of the Berliners
towards Spiritualism is still terribly antagonistic,
indeed, at times barbarically hostile. To give
a little insight into the ignorance and indif¬
ference in spiritual matters, I will mention
a discovery I made in the li Panopticon ” Wax-
works (the Madame Tussaud’s of Berlin).
After admiring the marvellous figures, some
of them wonderfully perfect, I went into the
u Chamber of Horrors v to study the criminals
and monsters by way of set-off to the august
society of Princes and other high-class folks.
A woman with nun-like attire and a cross
round her neck, naturally attracted my notice
in this society of outcasts of humanity. I had
to look several times over the page of the
catalogue to satisfy myself that this woman
55
(j enjoying a place among “brutes,” was no
(\ other than Louise Lateau, the stigmatized.
;| A queer sensation took hold of me, for I
Si trembled in anticipation that one fine day, our
<! worthy President of the B. N. A. S., with
?| several editors and other victims, might be
U honoured with the placing of their images in
sj this department of the exhibition; but my
a surprise received a new twist when I learned
/j that Mr. Gaston, the father of this collection
Si of human effigies, confessed after several
s| seances with Slade, his belief in the phenomena,
a It seems as if squeezing out money is the
)j ruling inspiration distinguishing us from
)j beasts. How such a disgrace can be possible
l\ in the centre of civilisation in fatherland, beats
q me, but I hope it is of very recent date,
;j and outside the cognisance of the Emperor,
)j Prince Bismark, and the Koman Catholic
<| clergy.
) LEIPZIG.
When I reached Leipzig, in the shortest
$ possible time I shook hands with Professor E.
)| Zollner, who must forgive me, if I trespass on
his feelings, by proclaiming this longed-for
>| meeting to be the most memorable of all my
>1 experiences during this tour. This remarkable
I gentleman, who represents the ideal of a learned
I man, will, 1 hope, kindly receive my praise,
| not as personal compliment, but rather as
springing from a desire to demonstrate the
<1 cheering fact, that true science does not pre-
'! vent the complete development of the man in
)| general, although we often find illustrious
51 scientific heroes of special departments to be
q very incomplete individuals as a whole—like
<| our letter-bearers, brilliant looking in front,
/j but flat at the back. Or like those polypes
>| which stick to the rock and try in vain to
i reach the open water. Of such men as Zollner,
a we have a few in England; they are self-
i luminous, like fixed stars surrounded by planets
Si which receive their light, but may at times
(I eclipse it. The moon may boast of blocking
(\ out the rays of the mighty sun, for it does
S| not hear the shouts of joy of men permitted
si meanwhile to study the corona. My short
q stay at Leipzig was to me the most enjoyable,
?| as I spent most of the time with this hospitable
)| friend of Spiritualism.
The Society of Spiritualists in Leipzig has
<| to struggle very hard, but the members for a
<j number of years have stood faithfully at their
I posts, gaining strength with each defeat, and
sj I left the town regretting only that shortness
< I of time did not permit me to meet all friends,
q particularly the absent Mr. Wittig.
56
THE SPIRITUALIST. July 30, 1880
bonn- iVi of tlie General sent to him at once, inviting
I spent only a few hours in Frankfurt, but | him to march to Rome forthwith. General
found by the conversation of a gentleman Garibaldi accepted the invitation, and arrived
whom I visited, that in this town, from which jSj goon afterwards with about eighty followers,
ridiculous abuse was showered upon Zollner, |q gome of them soldiers whom he had brought
including advice to quit his post, a movement j)j from America. It was a beautifully fine day
in favor of Spiritualism is strongly perceptible. | j in the month of April when he arrived in Rome,
This cheering news furnished me with some j j aud the news of his arrival spread all over the
antidote to the miserable ignorance displayed | | city in a very short time; everybody was in
in Bonn. I however met a Professor who i?j a state of excitement, and rushed to see the
delighted me with his clear judgment on this | | hero of the New World. I was drawing one of
subject, and who is most likely destined to j | the most beautiful of the Greek statues of Apollo
prepare a road for us in super-clever Bonn, j j when the news of his arrival reached the
The same pleasant opportunity of meeting j>| Academy, and I left at once, and with other
reasonable beings I had in Dusseldorf. My | j companions I went to the square of St. Silvestro,
general conclusion about Spiritualism in j j and there for the first time I had the pleasure
Germany is, that against the apparent slow jp 0f seeing the General; he was resting upon a
onward movement of Spiritualism among the |Vj beautiful white horse, and I was electrified by
masses, is an enormous increase in individual || his martial face. I cannot describe what I
efforts to propagate it; this is plain tome, as I | felt at that moment, but I had to obey an
had not previously visited Germany for four j j impulSe to follow him and to share his fate,
years. I believe that a sudden blaze there \h The next day I was a soldier under his com-
about Spiritualism will be seen some day, and JS| mand.
that it will make up for our long watching of Kj « on the 29th of April a rumour reached the
the poor streak of smoke along the soil. Kj town that the French were marching upon
London, July 25th, i8So. jp Rome. On the following day, at four o’clock
*”■ _ \(\ in the morning, we were called out, and were
SIGKNOR RONDI UNDER GARIBALDI. Kj marched in the direction of the Porta Sant
Last Friday Signor Enrico Rondi left London kj Pancrazio, and the fighting began at once,
for a three months’ tour in the United States, m General Garibaldi was in command of that
for the benefit of his health. He has been j>j. position, and the fighting went on till late in
known in England and in Italy for sixteen years Kj the afternoon, when we had the pleasure of
as a warm advocate of Spiritualism, and one j<j seeing the best army in the world defeated and
always ready to testify publicly to the pheno- j?| leaving behind it a few hundred prisoners. It
mena he has witnessed, but it may not be j)j was a grand day for Italy. I will not here
generally known that in former years he fought jsj describe the enthusiasm of the Italians on
under Garibaldi for the freedom of Italy, and <1 returning to the town towards evening. Two
was often under fire in some of the hottest I?I days afterwards we left for Palestrina, to fight
battles. He thereby earned the personal friend- jSj the soldiers of the Bourbon, who were also
ship of General Garibaldi, whose portrait he !<! marching upon Rome. We defeated them and
took from life and has now in his possession, j?j we returned to Rome, whence we were ordered
for Signor Rondi is a clever Italian artist. In j>j to Yelletri, where the King Bomba in person
the belief that it would be interesting to the jSj was commander-in-chief of his army, and here
many Spiritualists who know him, to read about Kj the Neapolitans were beaten by our General,
some of the events in which he took part at the jcj We returned to Rome after this battle and I
siege of Rome, we asked him for the details m remained there till the end of the seige. Sub-
the day he left London, and now append them, m sequently I followed the General throughout
Signor Rondi says :— jsj the Roman campaign, after which his small
u In 1849,1 was in the Academy of St. Lucas jsj band was discharged. I then returned to Rome
in Rome, studying painting, when a rumour la with great difficulty, passing through the
reached the town that the French had landed j)j French, but I could not remain there,
at Civita Yecchia en route for Rome, to restore jsj “ In 1859, I joined General Garibaldi again
the Pope to his chair. General Garibaldi was Kj in the war against the Austrians, and left him
then marching in the Romagna direct to Sicily, la after the peace of Yillafranca, returning to my
for he had been invited by the Sicilians to |?| brush once more. In 1861, I followed him to
defend the Island against the Bourbon. The js Sicily and remained till the fall of Capua. I
minister of war in Rome knowing the prestige \\\ was then attached to the staff of General Me-
July 30, 1880
57*
THE SPIRITUALIST.
dici, and left when the volunteers were dis¬
charged. I again followed him in 1866, and
left after the end of the campaign.
u In those days I was not a Spiritualist, but
when I think of all I passed through I firmly
believe that some good spirits were guarding
me, as I could recount many facts tending to
convince me that during all the dangers I
escaped, an invisible power guarded my move¬
ments.”
Signor Rondi has furnished us with the
details of the hairbreadth escapes which he
thinks were due to the protecting power of
spirits, and they shall be published next week.
 ♦ 
CURIOUS MESMERIC EXPERIMENTS.
Mr. R. Williams, M.A., writes to Free-
thought^ a Sydney periodical, that he was once
called upon by an individual who was very
anxious to meet with two ladies whom he had
entirely lost sight of, and having business of
an important character to transact with them,
it was imperative he should quickly have an
interview. He had heard that Mr. Williams,
some time previously, had mesmerised them,
and taking it for granted that he still retained
the spell over them, appealed to his generosity
in helping him “ to find them.” He replied,
that not being himself clairvoyant, it was out
of his power, but having been mesmerically en
rapport with them, he thought he might re¬
establish it, and had some hope of drawing
them into their presence. It should be re*
marked that he knew little or nothing of these
ladies, save that twelve or fifteen months
before they had attended one of his lectures
on mesmerism, and, in common with others,
had felt the effects of the “ influence,” as he
threw it over the audience. Thus far, he had
proved to his own satisfaction that u com¬
munication ” was well established which would
at any time enable him to place himself en
rapport with them if he wished it. But here
was an apparent difficulty—neither he nor the
inquirer knew where they lived; the only
information he could give was that they were
located c$ somewhere in the north of London,”
which proved afterwards to be fourteen miles
away. Mr. Williams then could do no more
than act “upon information received.” It
was now noon ; the inquirer left, after promis¬
ing to call in the evening, when he thought
they would be with them. Nil desperandum
is the mesmerist’s motto, and he commenced at
once. To some extent he was what would be
called working in the dark ; nevertheless,
sitting down facing the north, he says he
Rj poured forth abundantly mesmeric waves in
I?i the direction in which he believed the ladies
>| resided. His will was this aura should find
bj them, and that they should receive the mes¬
ial sage,—11 You two ladies must come into the
|>| city this evening and call-at ^resistance
|>| is no use; come you must, it is my will—
f>j try to disobey me ! ” He worked hard for
R| two hours, and feeling sure his mesmeric
|?| telegram must, by that time, have been de-
.|;| livered, he rested. Determined that success
bj only should be his reward, he repeated the
| ! telegram hourly for the rest of the day; it
I? | did not cost much; loss of muscular energy and
b; vitality, of course, was anticipated. Did he
|s| succeed ? They both came in the evening—
Rj first “ thought of it ” about noon; talked it
ip over during the day more seriously, and in the
pj evening decided to come. Mr. Williams says
11 he once handed a letter, which he had written
Rj for the purpose, to a young lady, without
Rj making any remark. She instantly placed it
l)j into her pocket; it contained these words—
Hj “You cannot open this letter until three days
j?j have expired, then you are free; until then
Pj obey the mesmerist’s will.” It was not opened
bj until the appointed time. The only explanation
Kj she could give was, she had felt a strong disin-
ja clination to open it till the evening of the third
pj day, when she felt as equally curious to see its
IS | contents. The address of the Mr. Williams
Rj who makes these statements, is Punt Road,
Rj Richmond, Melbourne.
A CLASSICAL APPARITION.
FROM PLINY’s LETTERS, B. VII. 27. TO SURA.
Our leisure furnishes me with the opportu-
jyl nity of learning from you, and you with that of
Kj instructing me. Accordingly, I particularly
Rj wish to know whether you think there exist
]>j such things as phantoms, possessing an appear-
!)j ance peculiar to themselves, and a certain
Rj supernatural power, or that mere empty delu-
Rj sions assume a shape from over fear. The
pi following story I believe on the strength of
Rj those who relate it.
There was at Athens a mansion, spacious
pj and commodious, but of evil repute and danger-
i j ous to health. In the dead of the night there
j(| was a noise as of iron, and if you listened more
H| closely, a clanking of chains was heard, first of
>j all as if at a distance, and afterwards near by.
pj Presently a spectre used to appear, an ancient
Rj man, sinking with emaciation and squalor, with
pj a long beard and bristly hair, wearing shakels
|j on his feet and hands, and shaking them,
m Hence the inmates, by reason of their fears
60
THE SPIKITTJALIST. Jitlt 30, 1880
THE ENGLISH TRANSLATION OF PROFESSOR ZOLLNER’S EXPERIMENTS.'
LIST OF ENGRAVINGS.
FRONTISPIECE :—The room at Leipsic in ■which most of the
Experiments were conducted.
PLATE I:—Experiments with an Endless String.
PLATE II:—Leather Bands Interlinked and Knotted under
Professor ZQllner’s Hands.
PLATE III :—Experiments with an Endless Bladder-band
and Wooden Rings.
PLATE IV :—Result of the Experiment.
PLATE V :—Result of the Experiment on an Enlarged Scale.
PLATE VI:—Experiments with Coins in a Secured Box.
PLATE VII:—The Representation of Test Circumstances,
under which Slate-writing was obtained.
PLATE VIII:—Slate-writing Extraordinary.
PLATE IX :—Slate-writing in Five Different Languages.
PLATE X : —Details of the Experiment with an Endless band
and Wooden Rings.
PREFACES.
TRANSLATOR’S PREFACE :—Professor Zollner and his
Works—The Value of Testimony considered—Sources of Fallacy
—How can Medial Phenomena be Explained ?—The Value of
Scientific Authority—Mr. A. R. Wallace’s answer to Hume’s
Essay on Miracles—Spiritualism an Aggregation of Proven Facts
—The Attack upon Henry Slade—Spirit Messages—Slade’s
Career after leaving England—Professor Zbllner’s Polemic-
Items relating to the English Translation.
PROFESSOR ZOLLNER’S PREFACE (Dedication of the
Work to Mr. William Crookes) :—Workers in a New Field of
Research—Thoroughness of the Labours of Mr. Crookes—The
Moral Necessity of the Strife about Spiritualism—The Immor¬
tality of the Best Works of Human G-enius.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—Gauss’s and Kant’s Theory of Space—The
practical application of the Theory in Experiments with Henry
Slade—True Knots produced upon a Cord while its ends were in
view and sealed together—The principles involved in the tying
of knots in Space of One, Two, Three and Four Dimensions—
Berkeley’s Theory of Vision—The Conception of Space derived
from Experience—Kant on Spiritual Existence.
CHAPTER II:—Henry Slade’s first visit to Leipsic—Professor
Fechner’s observations of the movements of a Magnetic Needle
in proximity to Madame Ruf, a Mesmeric Sensitive—Professor
Erdmann’s observations of the Phenomenon—The Experiment
repeated with Henry Slade—The Observations of Professors
Braune, Fechner, Weber and Scheibner—A Spirit Apology-
Destruction of a large Screen by Spirits—Experiments with a
Compass—Apparition of a Living Hand—Experiments with a
Bell and lighted Candles—Slade and the Grand Duke Constantine
—Testimony of the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof—A Test Experi¬
ment in Slate-writing—Impartation of Permanent Magnetism to
an Iron Needle by Medial Power.
CHAPTER III:—Permanent Impressions obtained of Tem¬
porarily Materialised Hands and Feet—A proposed Chemical
Experiment—Slade’s Abnormal Vision—Physical Impressions in
a Closed Space—Enclosed Space of Three Dimensions, open to
Four-dimensional Beings—The Muscular Power of a Spirit Hand
—A Test with Flour—Experiments with a Polariscope—Flight
of Objects through the Air—A Clue to Research.
CHAPTER IV:—Conditions of Investigation—The Know¬
ledge of our Ignorance—Unscientific Men of Science—Herr
Virchow’s Precept and Practice—“ The Martyrology of Mediums,”
a book of the Future—Slade’s reply to Professor Barrett—A
Medium’s enunciation of the First Rules of Experimentation in
Natural Science.
CHAPTER V:—Production of Knots in an Endless String—
Further Experiments—Experiments of the same Nature in Lon¬
don—A Dining Table Floating in the Air in Daylight—Manifes¬
tations in the House of a Physician—A Medium in Seclusion—
The Imposition of A priori Conditions—The Apparition of a Pale
Hand for Three Minutes—The Knotting together of Leather
Bands beneath the Hands of the Author—Professor Weber’s
Experiences with a Spirit Hand—Disappearance and Reappear¬
ance of Ponderable Objects—A Book Vanishes and Reappears—
A Table Vanishes ; it Reappears in Mid-air.
CHAPTER VI:—Theoretical Considerations—The Axiom of
“The Conservation of Energy” valid in Four-dimensional Space
—Projected Experiments to prove the Fourth Dimension—The
Unexpected in Nature and Life—Scientific Passivity—Schopen¬
hauer’s “ Transcendent Fate ”—Goethe on the Veil of Nature.
CHAPTER VII:—Various Instances of the so-called Passage
of Matter through Matter—An Unexpected Phenomenon—The
Heat sometimes produced by the Operation—The Burning
Power of Psychic Force—That Evidence the best which can be
appreciated without the Testimony of Experts—Failures at stances
an Argument against Trickery—A naive Misconception—The
Moral Responsibility of Mediums—The nature of the Phenomena
inconsistent with Trickery—The Limits of Physical Human
Strength—A Force of Tension of 198 cwts. exercised by Psychic
Power—A Force equal to that of two Horses exercised in Slade’s
presence—Catalytic Forces—Galileo on the Perverseness of the
Philosophers at Padua.
CHAPTER VIII: —The Phenomena suitable for Scientific
Research—Their Reproduction at different Times and Places—
Dr. Friese’s and Professor Wagner’s Experiments in Confir¬
mation of the Author’s—Experiments with Private Mediums—
Manifestations observed by Professor -Nicolaus Wagner at St.
Petersburg—Blind Faith and Blind Scepticism—Professor Wagner
on the Fanaticism of Blind Sceptics—^Investigation of Spiritual
Manifestations in a Private Family—Spiritualism a Foe to
Atheism—Form Materialisations through a Private Medium—
Appearance of the Spirit of Olga—Effect of strong Manifestations
upon a Medium—Repetition of one of Professor Zbllner’s Experi¬
ments by Professor Wagner—Psychography—Spirit Identity—
Impression made by the Materialised Hand of a Deceased
Person—The Value of the Facts.
CHAPTER IX:—Theoretical—The Fourth Dimension of
Space—A Miracle to Two-Dimensional Beings—The Experiments
of Professor Hare—A Ball of Platinum introduced into a Her¬
metically Sealed Glass Tube by Spirits—An Experiment with
Coins—Several Examples of the Passage of Solid Matter through
Solid Matter—Clairvoyance—The Fourth Dimensional Theory
explains Clairvoyance—The part taken by Slade’s Soul in a
Manifestation—The Spatial Widening of the Three Dimensional
Circle of Sight to Clairvoyants—Why Bodies gradually become
I Transparent to Clairvoyants—Illustration in the case of Andrew
Jackson Davis—The Criterion of Objectivity—The Influence of
one Will upon another—Hansen’s Experiments—The Philosophy
of Berkeley applied to Spiritual Phenomena.
CHAPTER X:—An Experiment for Sceptics—A Wager—
Slade’s Scruples—A Rebuke by the Spirits—An Unexpected
Result—Captious Objections—The Experiment of Professor
Wach—Example of the Apparent Penetrability of Matter.
CHAPTER XI:—The Facility with which Material Bodies
apparently pass through each other in Slade’s presence—Writing
through a Table—A Test in Slate-writing conclusively disprov¬
ing Slade’s agency—A Description of the Trance State.
CHAPTER XII:—A “ Fault” in the Cable—Jets of Water—
Remarkable Heating Effects through Slade’s Mediumship—
Smoke—Sulphurous Vapours—“Fire Everywhere”—A Bluish-
white Light—Abnormal Shadows—A Philosophical Explanation
—A Materialised Spirit Hand—A Luminous Form.
CHAPTER XIII:—Phenomena Witnessed by other Observers
than the Author—Manifestations in Bohemia—The Narrative of
Herr H einrich Gossmann—Spirit Identity— Heavy Stones brought
into the Seance Room—Extraordinary Manifestations—Spirit
Writing in Five Languages.
APPENDICES.
APPENDIX A: —The Value of Testimony in Matters Extra¬
ordinary—The Proportional Strength of Evidence—The Con¬
tradiction of Experience by Alleged Facts—Mr. Starkie’s Treatise
on the Low of Evidence—Hume’s Essay on Miracles—The In¬
fluence of Preconception—Hume’s Principle Mathematically
Refuted by Mr. Babbage—The “Uniformity” of Nature—The
Lord Lindsay’s Experiences—Dr. Lockhart Robertson’s Experi¬
ments—The Cumulative Force of Testimony—The Universal
Belief of Mankind—Obstruction of Truth by Scientific Men—
The Testing of Evidence.
APPENDIX B:—Evidence of Samuel Bellachini, Court Con¬
juror at Berlin.
APPENDIX C:—Admissions by John Nevil Maskelyne and
other Professional Conjurors—Houdin—Jacobs.
APPENDIX D:—Plate X--Experiment with Sealed Cords
and Endless Bands.
Price 12s. 6d.: Post Free. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch^ Office, 33, Museum Street, London
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 30, 1880,
ii
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per-
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of sinners, he answers Yes 5 hut
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, Wo. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pricisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
False lights and dark spots
in Spiritualism, by Christian Keimers. One
Shilling.
34. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexandek, M.A.,
Author of i£ill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc,
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
DESEARCHES IN THE PHENO-
JEt MENA OF SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R-S. The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st., W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for IJd; or six copies post free for 6d.
The triumph of love,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Versej
By Ella. Dietz.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo., price 3s. 6d. Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O-.
British national associa¬
tion of spiritualists. 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, daily. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ S. C.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
rTHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
JL oldest j ournal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
I5y per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.C
Price 3s, 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Post free
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”,
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in thj
public libraries, and to present or send to those whi
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains mucl
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, givei
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I.—“ O ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Kichmond.
. II.—The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the HieherLife.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan •Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treheme) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XL—Swedenborg onMen and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C,
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern;
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsueht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
sh'p of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. • By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy ir
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette MakdoiigaV
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace
F.R.G.8.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Bianch Office, S3
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo.,
  407 pp.
STUDIEN TIBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Auklma von Vay (Covntkss
WuRMBRANU).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free
(Illustrated with diagrams).
HEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
j The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price 5s. fid.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV .
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX
Life—XXL Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of VaJa—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allen Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every Month. Price 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyms, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post Office orders payable at
; Leymarie.
Price 5s. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
PSYCHIC FACTS.
The Best Book to place in Public Libraries and in th
hands of Disbelievers in Spiritualism.
CONTENTS.
Elementary Information for Inquirers into Spirit,
ualisnj. By the Editor.
Elementary Psychical Phenomena Experimentally
Tested. By Robert Hare, M.D., Professor of Chemistry
at the University of Pennsylvania.
Experiments in Psychical Phenomena. By William
Crookes, F.R.S.
Phenomena I have seen. By Cromwell Fleetwood
Varley, F.R.S., C.E.
Report on Spiritualism. By a Committee of the Dia¬
lectical Society of London.
Psychography. By Edward W. Cox, Serjeant-at-Law.
Extraordinary Psychical Phenomena in Germany.
By Frederick Zollner, Professor of Physical Astronomy
at the University ofLeipsic.
Captain R. F. Burton’s Experiences.
Experiences at a Seance. By Alfred Russell Wal¬
lace.
Reichenbach’s Magnetic Flames and other Fheno.
mena. By The Lord Linsay.
Powerful Physical Manifestations. By Dr. A. But.
lerof. Professor of Chemistry in the University of St.
Petersburg.
Testimony of “The Times” Newspaper.
Testimony of “ The Daily Telegraph.”
Slate-Writing Experiments. By Epes Sargent.
Spiritualism and Insanity. By Eugene Crowell,
M.D.
Linguistic Phenomena. By J. W. Edmonds, Judge
of the Supreme Court, New York.
A Severe Surgical Operation under Mesmeric Influ.
ence. By Colonel Sir William Topham.
Signor Damiani’s Challenge.
Manifestations witnessed by the Emperor of Ger¬
many.
Manifestations witnessed by the Emperor of Russia.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
33, Museum-street, London.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circle
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those 'news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to •• drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions bow
to form spirit vircles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums wi 11 spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated tc
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con -
sequently irreligious age.
IV’
T H E ' S P I E I T U A L I S T.
July 30, 1880,
Accidental Indigestion!
. : J lo BEFORE A^D AFTER THE :
CHRISTMAS PTJDDiNO,
ENO S FRUITSALT
Erery Travelling Trunk and Household., in the "World
ought ’to contain a bottle of '
FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound' Ripe Fruit, as a .Health-
, giving, JOopl.ing,'Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for apy. Season.
It/is. tho best Preventitive and Cure for Bilioushe'ss^ •
_ rSick jlleadaohe, Skin Eruptions, Impure: Blpipd, ,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness; Feverish'-
j ness, Mental depression,.Want of Appetite, Sourness,,
, of, SiomaGh,, Constipation, Vomiting, Tbirstf‘&C.,1 ’
and tp.remove the- effects ofrErrors in'Ea,tiiig "aiid;,
I . ’Drinking. - • • , , , j ' , ' ' \ \ ' ] fTCj
ENO’S EEUIT SALT.—From tHe1
■ Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar'of Collefly,:—I have
used your Ffuit-Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements.: The thanks of the' public are due to’
you for your unceasing efforts to' relieve .suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
■world.”
QTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
kJ AMOUNT of . EXERCISE. frequently DE-.
RANGE; the ' LIVER. •' END’S ,FRUIT SALT is"
.peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
'the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
. those who KEEP and USE END’S FRUIT SALT.—.
.“.All our customers for END’S PRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that wouldmtherwise cause
-bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood, ;
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
END’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with wa,ter,
acts as a natural aperient,. its simple, hut natural
action, removes'alT impurities j thus preserving and
restoring health. If its • great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
■would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT ill Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
bets like a charm. Ttallays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the . injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use END’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de 8*- g’aix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. He is a constant sufferer from chronio
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
in the house.”—M. Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.— “After suf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost, everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENG’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and how l am restored to my .usual health; and
others ! know that have tried it have hot enjoyed such
good .health for years.—Yours moist truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
Success in life,”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the. original closely enough to deceive the
public,: and yet not so exactly as,to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity thatj employed in
an original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAiTTIObT.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule it
marked “ENQ’SFBUIT SALT.” Without,you have
been imposed on by d worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and is. 6d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hat chain, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings.- Crown Svo, richly gilt, .
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WIT. 1.1 AM It. HARRISON;
An Elegairi and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical anc
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay. .•
Strongly recommended by reviews in Morning
Post, O-raphic,. Cjurt J mrnal and-some twenty or thirt)
other standard journals.
The gilt device' on the cover designed ' by. Florence
: Glaxton and the Author.
Contents."
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose ‘Writings. <
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song o!
the Newspaper Editorl-^-'S. The Bong of the Pawn
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The rLay of the Fat Man
—6. The Poetry of ^Science;—7. How Hadji al thaea'
bac was Photographed (.a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
hac, a gentleman •'who' visited , London on business
connected with a .Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha
"Ben Buckram, Chief ot the. College of Howling Der;
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad,
BfhnmedHat.—9. St.-Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay ol
'the Market Gardener.—.11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.
12 Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion—14. Tht
Lay of the Photographer.—15, How to Double thf
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law;—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18 “Poor
Old Joe! ”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A,Love Song.—22. A Yision
—23. “Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobble]aw Ballads, by Anthony i
Wobble] aw.
25. The Public Analyst.,—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29 The July Bug.—39, The Con-;
verted Carman. — .
ESTABLISHED 1851.- v
Bl R K B E O K B A N K.—
.. ^Southampton Buildings,'.Chahcery Lane.
Current Accounts, opehed according to the usual
praetiee of other Bankers,'and interest allowed on the
minimum monthly halancek whe'n not drawn below
£25. No Commission charged fpr keeping accounts,
i' The Bank also receives money oh Deposit at Three
per cent. Interest, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers,, free ,of
charge, the custody of Dheds, Writings,' arid other
Securities' arid .Valuables'; the ' collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the'purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued. Y.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCROET, Manager.
31st March, 1886.
- From .The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the;
book in k review nearly a column long, says.—“Comie;
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past ;'conse-
queritly any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,- exhibits ai
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who!
are not top stupid_ to enjoy .an innocent laugh. Not
that his riiuse restricts herself orily to such lighter'
utterances ; on-the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred .feelings of our common
humanity? .v„; .; Themnfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his'adveritufes amongst thejnagieiqns of White¬
chapel is quite* one of ithe funniest things-that has;
been published for years. . . The hook contains!
quite, enough" to ensure it a welcome from :which its;
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning'
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No ono cani
belp laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes!
are pitched in “ something'like the same key. as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an:
appreciably successful result.”
• From The Court Journal.
“ All are of iriarked ability. ... Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author,
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
‘ . From The Graphic.
“Those who- can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so-is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed. ”
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
. FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOREIYE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
.BIRKBECK. FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
. FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.  
T UN A CY LA W R EF0 R M
JL-J ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
.Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 p.m. Saturdays 1 to 2.
Louisa Lowe ;and P. T. Blackwell, Esq., Barrister-at-
Law, Hori. Secs.  
rpHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
-L OR THE TWO CLEYER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian’ Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
■B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. ■ A-review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d,
post ~ free 6£dv The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33. Museum-street, London, W.C.
i The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,' 33
Museum-street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by-the Author and
' Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth,-red .edges; Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.O.’ * ;
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
BostoNj U.S. -
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Yarley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, hut also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We
will only say that his descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the hook (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
CONTENTS,.
Price 6d.; post free 7Jd."; cloth.
P'qqA'VQ
rpHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
JL SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays ly Anna Blackwell arid Mr
G. F. Green. •
These Essays won the First and . Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association of
Sf i ritualists,   .
The Spiritualist . Newspaper Branch Office, .33,
Museum-street, Lorido'n; W.U. '•! i
lUlND AND MATTER; A Spiritual
1VJL Paper, .published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S. A. A Special, Independent; and Liberal Spiritual
Journal; , Publication rOffiee, 713,'. Sansom-sfeeet: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents,. in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve ShiUings. (Send International Postal)
Order.) Sample copies free.
Maternal Government       49
The Transportation of Solid Objects'at a Searice. >.
- .By Major-General G. W. P. Maclean ...........l 51
Occult Powers of a Dog .    52
The Death-Watch   ..I.;...........'..;...;...... 52
A Private Seance       54
Mesriierising a Half-Drowned Man   54
Spiritualism in Germany. By Christian Reimers 54
Berlin     .'. 64
Leipzig      t... 55
Borin'   ‘....i..;.;.: 56
Signor Rondi under Garibaldi;,.. 56
Curious Mesmeric Experiments   ; ;..... 57
A Classical Apparition. - From Pliny’s Letters, B.
YII, 27, to Sura:   57
Complimentary'Soiree *-.i.    58
Paragraphs:—The'Influence of Reaction 50
Dr. Mack  ; ......'fljft*.,;.. 51
' I British Museum Lectures    51
--.Tlfe-Psyche Club...:   ;... 53
! , "Art Encouragement  53
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Muria-lane, London; E.C.
58
July 30, 1880
THE SPIEITUALIST.
passed miserable nights in sleeplessness. And |)
in the daytime as well, though the apparition
had departed, yet a reminiscence of it flitted ji
before their eyes and their dread outlived its |
cause. The mansion was accordingly deserted jj
and entirely abandoned to the dreadful ghost. |i
However it was advertised on the chance of |
some one, ignorant of the fearful curse attached 1
to it, being willing to buy or rent it. Athene- I?
dorus, the philosopher, came to Athens and read |;
the advertisment. When he had been informed K
of the terms, which were so low as to appear r |(
suspicious, he made enquiries and learnt the |)
whole of the particulars. Yet none the Ij
less on that account did he rent the house, k
As evening began to draw on, he ordered K
a sofa to be' set for him in the front part j)
of the house, and then called for his writing ||
implements and a light. The whole of his is
servants he dismissed to the interior apartments, K
and applied himself intently to composition, |?
that his mind might not, from want of occupa- |j
tion, picture to itself the phantoms of which he Is
had heard, or any empty terrors. At the com- |(
mencement there was the universal silence of I)
night. Soon the shaking of irons and the j!
clanking of chains were heard, yet he never K
raised his eyes nor slackened his pen, but hard- k
ened his soul and deadened his ears by its help, j)
The noise grew and approached ; now it seemed |j
to be heard at the door, and next inside \i
the room. He looked round and recognised ft
the flgure he had been told of. It was |}
standing and signalling to him with its fin- |j
ger, as though inviting him. He made a sign j(
with his hand that it should wait a moment, jj
and applied himself afresh to his pen. Upon I
this the figure kept rattling its chains over his K
head as he wrote. On looking round again he B
saw it making the same sign as before, and k
without delay took up a light and followed it. |/
It moved with a slow step as though oppressed |>
by its chains, and after turning into the court- |J
yard of the house vanished suddenly. On I
being thus left to himself he marked the spot j)
with some grass and leaves which he plucked. |
Next day he applied to the magistrates and I
urged them to have the spot in question dug j<
up. There were found there some bodies |J
attached to and intermingled with fetters. |
They were collected and interred at the public j<
expense, and the house was ever afterwards |
free from the spirit which had obtained due |
sepulture. j!
Mediums who can obtain strong manifestations in
daylight, are much wanted in England.
A COMPLIMENTARY SOIREE.
Last Tuesday night a complimentary soirSe to Mr.
and Mrs. J. W. Fletcher, the well-known mediums,
was held at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour Street,
London, and there was a good attendance. The first
part of the evening was devoted to some excellent
singing and music, and included the following pieces:—
Overture, Mr. Arthur L’Estrange ; Song, “ When the
heart is young,” Miss Evelyn Wood; Song, Mr. E.
Tietkens ; Soh, “ Che faro senza Euridyce,” (Gluck),
Madame Ada Earie; Duet, /‘Two merry gipsies are
we,” the Misses Ward ; Song, “ The Children’s
Home,” (Cowan), Mr. J. C. Ward; Song, “In the
Gloaming,” (Sullivan), Mrs. J. W. Fletcher; Piano
Solo, (Liszt), Madame Olga Fleehte ; Duet, “ Birdie,”
(Rulenstein), Mesdames Earie and Ward; and Grand
Duo (Pianoforte), Madame Flechte and Mr. J. W.
Fletcher.
The presentation of a testimonial to Mr. Fletcher
then took place. It consisted of a handsome cup made
of beaten silver, with “ J. W. Fletcher ” engraved on
one side of it, and “From Steinway Hall Friends,
July 27th, 1880,” on the other.
Mr. Desmond FitzGerald regretted the inability of
the chairman of the meeting, Mr. Stainton-Moses, to
present the testimonial, but the latter had written
that he was unavoidably absent, and that it would
have given him great pleasure could he have been
there. Mr. FitzGerald continued that Mr. Fletcher
had done honour to Spiritualism as a movement,
although in one sense Spiritualism was such a blessing
to the world, that it could not be honoured by in¬
dividuals. Mr. Fletcher’s mediumship was of such a
conclusive and sledge-hammer character, that it had
made many intelligent converts to the movement. He
had much pleasure in handing Mr. Fletcher the
testimonial, as a mark of the esteem of those present.
Mr. Fletcher accepted the presentation in a few
feeling remarks.
Mr. FitzGerald then asked for a show of hands in
recognition of the work done by Mrs. Fletcher,
Mrs. Fletcher replied that in honouring her husband
they had honoured her. When Mr. Fletcher began
his Sunday meetings, an average of about seventy-two
persons had attended, but since they had been transfer¬
red to Steinway Hall, the average attendance had been
about three hundred. She hoped that on their return
much earnest work would be done, in the way of estab¬
lishing schools and otherwise.
Some very hansome bouquets were then sent up to the
platform for Mrs. Fletcher.
The musical programme was then continued : Song,
Mr. E. Tietkins: Recitation, “Billy’sRose,” Mrs. J. W.
Fletcher: Piano Solo, (A. Collen), Mr. Arthur A. Oolman:
Recitation, “Nature and Grace,” Mr. J. W. Fletcher:
Song, “Robin Adair,” Mdlle. Bernani: Concertina Solo,
Mr. J. 0. Ward. Mdlle. Bernani’s song, the gem of the
evening, was encored, and she responded by giving
“ The Yocal Yalse.”
Mr., Mrs. and the Misses Ward have been adding
greatly to the interest of Spiritualist meetings of late,
by the support of their vocal and musical powers.
The subscribers to the testimonial to Mir. Fletcher
were, Captain James, Mr. A. R. Wallace, Major W.
Carpenter, Mrs. Elliot, Mrs. FitzGerald, Mr. Alex.
Calder, Mr. J. Hoskins, Mr. E. D. Rogers, Mr. E.
Bower, Mr. G. P. Allen, Mrs. Tebb, The Misses Spencer,
Mrs. Ford, Rev. Renolds, Mr. Tietkens, Colonel, Lean,
Mrs. Brown, Mr. Brown, Signor Rondi, Mrs. Nichols,
Mrs. Cowper, Madame de Rouller, Mrs. Pemberton, Mrs.
Barrett and Miss Maltby.
Jttly 30, 1880
THE SPIRITUALIST.
59
Mrs. Maltby and Mrs. FitzQ-erald took an active
part in getting up the testimonial, and making arrange¬
ments for the meeting. All the proceedings passed
off very pleasantly.
AN EXTRACT.
BY J. A. CAMPBELL, B.A. (CANTAB.)
In a poem called Olrig Grange, lately read
by me, among many notable passages I find
this one, which seems to mark with wonderful
accuracy the nature and limits of the “ faith ”
possible to be attained by scientific investi¬
gation of “ Spiritualism.”
* * *
The medium waits me at the door,
That Pythoness of modern science,
Who brings back intellect once more—
To hear and wonder and adore.
She photographed by electric light
My old grandmother’s ghost last night,
The very cap and wig she wore,
While the spirit sat by me there bolt upright.
I did not see Her; but I saw
The portrait like as like could be,
And felt a kind of creeping awe,
And old religion back in me ;
A hand was laid upon my knee,
And there was music in the air,
The very song she whiled my care
Away with in my infancy ;
And she lives in some hind of a sphere somewhere.
And conscience twitched me like a spasm,
For hitherto I had no faith
In anything but protoplasm ;
I held that spirit was but breath,
And all the future silent death.
And what if science shall restore
The faith it robbed me of before ?
For call it spirit, ghost or wraith,
One was there who did not come in by the door.
It’s wonderful what now we do ;
This is a mighty age indeed,
With march of intellect so true,
From prejudice and bondage freed,
And pious fraud and worn-out creed!
We weigh the farthest stars in scales,
We comprehend the wandering gales,
We summon spirits at our need
From the shadowy world that love bewails.
I don’t deny that heretofore,
The spirits have not much to tell,
That Shakespeare’s something of a bore,
That Milton proses about hell,
That Scott has lost his wizard spell,
That Plato has forgot his Greek,
That Byron’s dull, and Goethe weak ;
But then deal tables could not well
Utter the thoughts they might wish to speak.
We wait for better instruments
Wind harps to suit the spirit hand,
Sweets lutes to place beside the rents
In the dim Walls of the spirit land.
No maestro with his cunning wand,
Beethoven’s symphonies could get
From bones and bagpipes. We are yet
But groping ’mong the secrets grand
Of the mystic spiritual alphabet.
At any rate this is the age
Of miracles proper—wonders done,
By careful reading the dark page
Of nature, searching one by one
Her secrets till there shall be none.
And he who reads them is the true
Prophet apostle of this new
Annus mirabilis, whose sun
Shines its great light now on me and you.
Argyllshire, July 1st.
 ♦ 
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned; copies
should he kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.']  —
mb. campbell’s lettebs.
Sir,—May I ask you to spare me a very little space
in which to say to the subscribers for my “ Letters ”
that I have been compelled on several accounts to
abondon the scheme. What I now propose is to print
instead, a pamphlet, setting forth my views of our
position and duties, as steadfast believers in the reality
and importance of psychic phenomena ; but at the same
time steadfast distinguishers between the phenomenal
and the real, and deducing from these premises a
system of practical and present action.
I should be glad, if those who have sent subscrip¬
tions to Mr. Blount, would be kind enough to inform
me (by letter addressed 38, Great Russell Street,)
whether they desire them returned, or devoted, in
whole or in part, to this more limited object. Before
ending, let me gratefully thank many an unknown
friend for their sympathetic letters about my lately
published paper. J. A. Campbell.
That faithful worker in Spiritualism, Mr. William
Tebb, has returned to England much improved in
health by his travels in America and on the Continent.
Hebb Sellin, of Hamburg, is in London, and has
attended a powerful seance at which Mr. Williams and
Mr. Husk were the mediums.
“ What is the greatest achievement which is given
to man to perform? Lord Bacon says that it is to
establish a State. Let small men live in States great
men have founded.”—& E. Kale, JD.D.
Yestebday Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Fletcher left Glas¬
gow by the S.S. Bolivia (Anchor Line) for New York.
Mr. Fletcher will lecture at the Lake Pleasant camp
meeting, Montague, Massachusetts, on the 12th of
August.
A Cubiotjs Mental Phenomenon :—A Detroit boy
laid an umbrella, with a cord tied to it, in a public
doorway. Eleven persons thought that umbrella was
theirs, and carried it with them the length of the string.
They then suddenly dropped it, and went off without
once looking back or stopping to pick it up.
