Registered as a Newspaper.
joUfCK&i< P^YdSo^o^idS^ ^di^^ds<.
#Itef r0im^!Er iaii^ Spntwalxsm m $tmi §nfam«
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque-246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE : 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 274. (VOL. XL—No. 21.) LONDON: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
^muents.
The Spiritual State. By Baboo Peary Chand Mittra 241
An Abnormal Phenomenon. By Hensleigh Wedgwood,
M.R.I    241
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—
Seances for Inquirers 242
An Unexpected Visitor—A Devil. By Samuel Guppy ... 242
The Healing Power of Mesmerism 243
Slate-Writing and Materialisation Phenomena. By Epes
Sargent  244
A Case of Pure Olairvoyance. By Henry G. Atkinson,
F.G.S  245
Witch-Burning Pastimes at Balmoral  245
Dr. Slade in Berlin. By H. Liebing...  246
Alfred Tennyson’s Trances 247
A Haunted House in San Francisco...    ...247
Poetry:—Spirit Music    ... ...  248
Correspondence:—A Vision of a Life—Can the Material
Demonstrate the Immaterial?—Spiritualism in the
Bible—The Mesmerising of Plants—‘‘The Soul and
Future Life ”—Astrological Opinions about the War-
Reincarnation Speculations — Sunday Lectures —
Spiritualism at the Hague—Hindu Psychology—Mr.
Calder’s Address—Spiritualism in Islington—What
Truth is there in Astrology ?  248
Answers to Correspondents   ... 252
Paragraphs:—Socrates on the World of Spirits, 243 ; The
Psychological Society of Great Britain  ... 247
« THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER :
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rnHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JLj oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
so has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred It.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;\His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. 0. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, S.A. (Gxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ol
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. 0. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States); Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United ^Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.G.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Oapucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Just published, price 4d.
LAIRYOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
NEW MEMBERS.
Subscriptions paid before the end of the year by members
elected after this date will clear them up to the end of the year
1878.
EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE.
Chairman—Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.Tel.E.
The Research Committee having expended the sums en¬
trusted to them, will be glad to receive subscriptions towards
the objects they have in view.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSIONS.
On Monday next, the 26th inst., the Rev. W. Sfainton-Moses
will open the adjourned discussion by reading a paper on “Re¬
cent Developments of Form Manifestations,” at 7.30 for 8 p.m.,
at 38, Great Russell-street.
SEANCES FOR ENQUIRERS.
Seances for Enquirers are held at 38, Great Russell-street,
at 8 p.m., every Wednesday. Medium, Mr. Eglinton. En¬
quirers admitted by free tickets on the recommendation of
a member, or by personal application to the secretary. Mem¬
bers, with one friend, Is. for each person. Number limited
to twelve.
INSPIRATIONAL ADDRESS.
Mr. J. W. Colville gives an Inspirational Address gratis at
38, Great Russell-street, at 4 p.m., every Saturday. Subject
chosen by the audience. Questions invited. A poem, also on
a subject chosen by the audience, at the close. Admisssion
free.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and- scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
A. JOY, Acting Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—  H. E. FRANCES, Hon. SbO.
LANGHAMHALL, 43, Great Portland-street,
London. W. J. COLVILLE delivers an Inspirational
Oration followed by an Impromptu Poem (subjecls chosen by
the audience), on Mondays at 8 p.m. Admission free to
balcony. Reserved, seats 2s.; unreserved, Is.
LANGHAM HALL,
43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET, W.
READINGS AND RECITALS
By
MISS ELLA DIETZ & MR. PRANK DIETZ,
On Friday, Noyember 30th, 1877, at Eight o’clock.
Tickets, 3s., 2s., and Is.; to be had at Langham Hall, or of j
Mr, Dietz, 51, Denbigh-street, S.W.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W,
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
The soul, and how it found me ;
being a narrative of phenomena connected with the
production of England and Islam, by Edward Maitland.
 Tinsley Brothers, Publishers, 
Works by the Countess oe Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
REIOHENBACH’S RESEARCHES, by the
late William Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E. 455 pp.,
demy 8vo. Second-hand, in very good condition. Scarce.
10s. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London. W.O.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Is.  ,
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
PSYOHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakop, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.   
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.  
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London. 
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms :—18c, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.;
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C!
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet With full particulars, may be had on application,
FRANCIS RAYENSCR0FT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 23, 1877,
BRITISH -NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calderj Esq., I, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfteld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougali, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, 'W.
Honywood, Mrs., S3, Warwiek-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, O. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. I\, Derby House, Belper.
Armflcld, W. N., Eden-villa. Cairns-rd.. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edws d T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A.,24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,.-
Brown, James, 1S9, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Sirs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lOdge, vanbrugh-park-road. Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 84, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Relmers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Str’awbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redclifle-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blaekheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J, H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisllngbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischofisberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634,Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. J. M. Snear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes:Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2, Rue de Rocrol, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D..Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London. N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
- J. W. Day, Esq.,9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton.
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
SociedadjEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espiriia dl Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
. OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. ft The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trtjbner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s, 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc-
tiens in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Oolby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
ASTROLOGY, a popular sketch of Celestial
Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J. Pearce, author
of the Weather Guide - Boole, &c. Price Is. London:
Berger, Newcastle-street, Strand. Sent post free by the
author on receipt of twelve penny stamps; address, 3, Cedars-
terrace, Lavender-hill, S.W.
“ This work is the best that has ever been printed to convey
to those unacquainted with Astrology, a plain, simple, and
easily understood idea of what it really is; and before under¬
taking to learn anything about it by any of my awn works, I
advise my readers to obtain and peruse this very excellent
little publication.”—Zadkiel.
N.B.—The author gives private instruction in Astrology.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This boob, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Histosical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris, Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie,
ME. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings-from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
  Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
^ Hours—Twelve till Five. 
SPIRITUAL HEALING
BY JAMES BEGAN,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQ., LONDON, W.O.
N.B.—Patients desiring personal treatment will please
make appointment in first instance by letter; terms as per
agreement.   , 
MR. W. EGLINTON
Has returned to town, and may be addressed,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON
 SVV 
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANOE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Oampden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired).
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.O.
MESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
ISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
71, Pocock-street, Blackfriars-road, London.
MR. J. HAWKINS, 11, Mount Pleasant,
East-road, Oity-road, Magnetic Healer, open to en-
gagements to start seances and to develope mediums.
RS. S. W. FLETCHER, the mesmeric
healer, 2, Vemon-place, Bloomsbury-square. Hours,
12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appointment.
Nervous diseases a specialty.
,S. WOODFORDE, 90, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, from 12 to
5 p.m. For visits of friendship, from 8 to 10 p.m.
Madame llancore, 25, Guiiford-st.,
Russell-square, will hold Seances on Wednesdays,
Fridays and Sundays, at 8, for Music, Clairvoyance, Trance,
Automatic Writing, Tests and advice. Friends and
Spiritualists.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300for Is., post free, or 500_/or Is. 6c?., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’ ’
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Oo. 
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSENGER,
ALMANAC and EPHEMERIS for 1878, containing
Predictions of the Weather and Mundane Events, Birthday
Notes, &e., &c. Post free, 7d. ; with Ephemeris, Is. Id.
Raphael's Guide to Astrology, containing rules and infor¬
mation whereby any person may calculate and judge a
nativity. The most original and simple work on Astrology
ever published. Cloth, gilt, 3s, London: J. E. Catty, 12,
Aye Maria-lane, E.C,
Vo^ujvie JEJeeven. Number Twejmty-one.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 23rd, 1877.
THE SPIRITUAL STATE.
BY BABOO PEAKY CHAND MITTRA.
There has been no end of creeds, no end of ethics.
Metaphysics have been principally directed to the study of |
the mind, and except the Aryas and Greeks no other ancient !
nation has thrown light on the soul. The Aryas did not j
believe in vicarious salvation, but looked upon the soul as I
the connecting link between God and man. The Rishis j i
thought of nothing but God and soul. Many of them were j ’
clairvoyants, possessed psychological powers, and could pre- j j
diet events. The Rajas made it a rule to retire and live in !!
the jungle with their wives, after they were fifty years of i
age, for the purpose of attaining the spiritual state. The j
love of Socrates and Plato for the essence and spirit is 1
admirable. Ours is a materialistic age. We prosecute the j
study of physical sciences ; we think of what pays well, but ]
not of what pays well eventually. Talk of Spiritualism, |
and the remark instantly made is, that it is a delusion—all j
bosh. What becomes of us ? “ Let us not try to lift the j
veil which cannot be lifted.” “We have all we require in j
the Bible.” The general disposition not to go beyond the
limited horizon of the mind is very great; prejudices, idols,
and dogmas are all against the prosecution of inquiry. This
is characteristic of the age, but the pure light of God in the
soul cannot be kept pent up; this is evidenced by the present
spiritual movement, which must prosper in spite of the
opposition of learned divines and physicists.
To give some idea of the spiritual state as known to the j
Aryas, I subjoin extracts from certain works on Yoga and j
Bhagavat Gita. I am anxious that the knowledge of this I
state should be widely known, that Spiritualism may be j
fully appreciated and valued. It is absolutely necessary for j
preparing us for the world of essence, where we cannot pro- I
gress if we do not live here looking upon our spiritual |
existence and God from the light of our souls. All honour
then to my most esteemed friend, Andrew Jackson Davis,
and to all other Spiritualists. The reward for revealing the |
divine truth is in the soul itself.
“ No direction of sight, no bondage of the soul, no limit !
to time and space, no impediment from the organic life, no |
labour in the concentration of attention, no effort in con- j
templation, in possession of the endless horizon, not wake¬
ful, nor in profound sleep, no consciousness of existence, nor
of death, no twinkling in the eye, no desiring, no breathing,
like a lamp undisturbed by wind.
“ The soul then shows full will, is free, and sees all the
worlds.
“ The absorption in God comes on after extinction of the
external knowledge, or knowledge through the mind and its
sensuous organs.
ic Internal consciousness and external vision without the
twinkling of the eye.
<£ He is the Yogee who sees without effort, whose lower
life ceases without his will, and whose inner life flows
spontaneously. He is above all emotions, and above wake¬
ful and dreaming states.”
“ As long as the outer life exists, the soul is helpless.”
“ The spiritual state is the constant thinking of the soul
and of the souls of others.
“ It is ignorance that fetters the soul. Wisdom liberates
it. The sentient soul lies in the outer life. The real is in
the internal tranquil state. He who passes through varied
states does not attain the spiritual condition, which consists
in one unchangeable state, seeing God everywhere.
“The Yogee having forsaken the cares, lives in the
essence. The Vedas are no Vedas—the real Veda is in
fixing our mind on God.
“ The Yogee is impervious to vice and virtue, and becomes
God-like,”
“ Absorption in God means the same state in pain or
pleasure, in ardent hope or disappointment.
I “He who has no ill-feeling towards benefactors, friend,
| enemy, hermits, those who are deserving of censure, rela¬
tives, saints, and sinners, or, in other words, looks upon
| them equally, is a Yogee.
“ He who, knowing his soul, looks upon all beings in the
same light, and does not wish for any one’s evil but happi¬
ness, is a Yogee. The Yoge state means the absorption of
the mind in the soul, which being developed, finds enjoy¬
ment only in itself.”
The spiritual state is for the world of essences and spirits
with which it is en rapport. Ecstasy and trance are mixed
| states of brain and soul. Somnambulism and clairvoyance
are all included in the spiritual state, which has a perpetual
clear vision of the past, present, and future; and the more
absorbed it is in God, the more elevated it is in the spirit-
world. This is our accountability, this is our moral responsi¬
bility, this is our reward. May we all worship the Great
Power “ in truth and spirit,” for his spiritual revelation to
us. All other revelation based on mythic evidence, and
partaking of sensuous conception, is the work of the mind,
but not of the soul—the essence and mirror of God.
Calcutta, October 24:tli, 1877.
AN ABNORMAL PHENOMENON.
BY HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD, M.R.I.
The following account of an abnormal phenomenon by an
| intelligent and unimpassioned eye-witness is from Evelyn!s
| Diary, Aug. 5th, 1670:—
There was sent me by a neighbour a servant-maid, who,
| in the last month, as she was sitting before her mistress at
j work, felt a stroke on her arm a little above the wrist of some
| height. The smart, as if struck by another hand, caused
I her to hold her arm awhile till somewhat mitigated; but it
j put her into a kind of convulsion, or rather hysteric fit.
| That part of her arm was powdered with red crosses, set in
I most exact and wonderful order, x x x neither .swelled
xxx
xxx
i nor depressed, not seeming to be any way made by artifice, of a
| reddish colour, not so red as blood; the skin over them
I smooth; the rest of the arm livid and of a mortified hue,
| with certain prints, as it were, of the stroke of fingers.
This had happened three days in July, at about ten days’
I interval, the crosses beginning to wear out; but the succes-
I sive ones set in other different order, but yet uniform. She was
| very modest, and came from London to Deptford with her mis-
| tress to avoid the discourse and importunity of curious people.
She made no gain by it, pretended no religious fancies, but
II seemed to be a plain, ordinary, silent, working wench, some-
[i what fat, short, and high-coloured. She told me divers
; | divines and physicians had seen her, but were unsatisfied;
11 that she had taken some remedies against her fits, but they
! I did her no good. She had never before had any fits ; once
11 since she seemed in her sleep to hear one say to her that she
• | should tamper no more with them, nor trouble herself about
! I anythinsr that happened, but put her trust in the merits of
;! Christ only.
This is the substance of what she told me, and what I
! I saw and curiously examined. I was formerly acquainted
' j with the impostorious nuns of Loudune, in France, which
i: made such a noise among the Papists. I thought this worth
! | the notice. I remember M. Monconys (that curious travel-
11 ler, and a Roman Catholic) was by no means satisfied with
> I the stigmata of these nuns, because they were so shy of
| letting him scrape the letters, which were Jesus, Maria,
1 i Joseph (as I think), observing they began to scale off with it,
242
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 23, 1877.
AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR—A DEVIL.
BY SAMUEL GUPPY.
whereas this poor wench was willing to submit to any trial;
so that I profess I know not what to think of it, nor dare I
pronounce it anything supernatural.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
SEANCES FOB INQUIREBS.
Mr. C. E. Williams was the medium at the seance held
at 38, Great Russell-street, London, on Wednesday, the 14th
inst. He was far more fortunate than on the two previous
occasions. We sat in the dark, round the table, with hands
joined, for an hour and a quarter. Those who sat next to
the medium on either side vouch for his not having taken
any part, with hand or foot, in the manifestations. The
musical-box began to play without any of the circle touching
it, so far as I know or believe. It was carried about above
our heads while playing. It repeatedly stopped playing
instantly at the request of different members of the circle.
Several times, both when in the air and when on the table,
an extraordinary jumble occurred, as if it were playing two
tunes at once. At other times an accompaniment to the
tune was played, in perfect time and harmony, apparently,
as I thought, by thrumming on the strings of the <c Oxford
chimes.” A light repeatedly danced in the air, and divided
itself into two several times, on a request to that effect
being expressed. The effect was exactly that produced by
throwing one’s eyes slowly out of focus, the two lights first
gradually diverging from one another till about half an inch
or more apart, which distance, as well as their relative
positions, they maintained for three or four seconds, while
dancing about, and then gradually coalesced into one light
again. Once, at Captain James’s request, the light settled
on the tip of his nose, and remained there some time. He
said it seemed as though the tip of a warm finger had been
placed there, the light appearing as though on the finger¬
nail. The musical-box was wound up with considerable
energy, not to say violence, several times while lying on the
table close to me. I and others were patted and touched
several times. Various objects were taken from persons at
one part of the table and handed to others at the part most
remote. Things were also thrown about from various quar¬
ters of the room. “ Peter’s” voice was heard faintly twice,
as though in the middle of the table, and some questions
were answered by raps. Finally, two chairs were placed on
the table, and one on my head and shoulders.
I have every reason for believing that no member of the
circle left his or her place, or quitted hold of their neigh¬
bours’ hands, during the whole time that the manifestations
were occurring.
A. Joy, Member of Seance Committee, in Charge.
17th November, 1877.
Mrs. Maltby reports that on the 24th ult. Mr. C. E. Wil¬
liams was the medium. He sat in the cabinet in the dark,
and was tied to his chair, as usual, by two non-Spiritualist
gentlemen. The chimes were played, the hand-bell rung,
and the other usual manifestations occurred. “Peter”
spoke twice; sitters were touched; the speaking-tube and
the bell were thrown across the room; the chimes were
deposited on the knees of Mr. A. Fritz, of Brussels ; lights
floated about the room, and one of them, at the request of
one of the company, divided itself into two. After about an
hour and a quarter, Mr. Williams was unbound by the
gentlemen who tied him. They stated that they found the
bonds exactly as they had left them. The tests were gene¬
rally considered satisfactory.
Colonel Olcott will, before long, publish a memoir setting forth
the raison d’etre of the Theosophical Society.
The Lancet says that a report is current that Dr. Carpenter contem¬
plates retiring at an early date from his post of Registrar of the
University of London.
If the Spiritualists and Psychologists in India were to organise and
to appoint a secretary through whom they could all be communicated
with, they would form an influential though scattered body. One of
the advantageous results might be the systematic collection of informa¬
tion relating to the psychological phenomena so prevalent in India.
Somebody should take the initiatory step, by announcing through the
Spiritualistic and local press, his desire to receive the names and ad¬
dresses of those who wish to unite to prosecute psychological research
in India.
! [Previous to the death of Mr. Samuel Guppy he for¬
warded the following narrative, for insertion in the Spiritual
Magazine.]
The Davenports felt themselves at home at my house.
I was introduced to them as the author of a book which
some friends have told me they had had pleasure in perus¬
ing—a book of which ten times or a hundred times the
| number of copies I ever authorised have been put in cir-
I culation. I asked them to my house—my friends know
I what that means—and they came whenever they had
j spare time. Ferguson said to me, one day, “ Mr. Guppy,
| these young men are under great obligations to you; you
| have made them feel really at home in your house, and
you have never asked them for a stance.”
I did not want seances, but I wanted to study the men
who produced the manifestations; but it really and truly
turned out that the course I took was the very one to
have manifestations—not stereotyped, asked-for manifes¬
tations—but those genuine ones which arise spontaneously
when the medium is happy; in fact, it is then that the
spirits hold high holiday.
To those who were not acquainted with the Davenports, I
may mention that Ira had a never-failing fund of quiet
wit, besides being so good an artist, that it would have
been a better career for him than mediumship. William
| Davenport excelled in carpentry, cabinet work—that is,
| he had talent enough for it, whenever there was need.
As for Fay, he was a perfect Babbage, never so happy as
| when he was engaged in making up accounts. Otherwise,
as candid, sensible, and unassuming young men as you
could find in a very long search. They had at times had
| to bear severe and unmerited rebuffs, and had learnt
patience and firmness.
Ferguson, who conducted the seances, was a most exem¬
plary and worthy man; he had been a preacher; had
been attracted to the subject, and finding the manifesta¬
tions real, had devoted his life to it. Nothing short of a
perfect conviction of the reality of spirit manifestations
and of the thorough integrity of the Brothers would have
induced Ferguson to have joined them. He left a lucra¬
tive position, where he was esteemed and loved, to ac¬
company and preside for them. I before said that I
never asked them for a stance; but, in fact, the result of
their feeling themselves at home, made their visits to me,
whether at table or in the billiard room, one continued
stance.
Matters standing thus, when they told me they were
going to Manchester, I said I would go with them, paying,
of course, my share of the hotel expenses, at which they
were very glad. ... We did not hurry over our dinner,
then we proceeded to billiards until it was dusk—“ Now,”
said I, “ Ira, we’ll call for our photographs, and we’ll buy
an empty cigar box and go home to tea, and put the box,
with paper and pencil in it, under the table and see if we
can get some direct spirit-writing.” We went into my bed¬
room, and there was a good fire, and it was more cozy;
as the varnish on the photos, was not quite hard, we stood
them up on the mantelpiece.
A smallish room, feather bed, with very high top to the
bedstead, washstand, with under shelf one side, my trunk
open on a long stool in one corner, a table before the bright
fire, with two wax candles burning, and the tea on the table,
and we on each side—you see it all.
The ball or entertainment opened by a volume of Mary
Jane jumping from my trunk to the window seat; I got up
to pick it up, and while so doing, my dress coat and waist¬
coat came flying out of the trunk at me; I took them up,
remarking to my invisible friend, that I did not ask him to
unpack my trunk. I stowed all in the trunk, shut it up,
and resumed my chair at the table, but trunk and stool on
which it was marched off themselves up alongside the
table. ... A tumbler, half full of water, which was standing
on the washhand stand, was (the water) pitched at us.
|| Ira,” said I, “ we had better get our tea, for it is getting
rather lively.” We sat to the table, but the table began
moving about. “Hold the table fast,” said I. We did, but
Nov. 23, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
243
then the tea tray began moving about on the table, ff We
had better get our tea over,” said I, “ else we shall get
those things broken.” So we hurried, much as people do
aboard ship in a storm, and sent the things away. “ Now,”
said I, “ for our cigar box,” and we put paper and pencil in
it, and put it under the table (two candles and bright fire),
in an instant a crash came like a heavy sledge hammer—
the cigar box was smashed into little bits—at the same time
a very loud rapping was heard. “ It wants to say some¬
thing,” said Ira, and he added, “ What is your name ?” It
spelt out, D-e-v-i-1. “ Nice company we are got into, Ira,”
said I. “ What do you want ?” said Ira. It spelt out
W-h-i-s-k-e-y. “ Do you mean to say,” said I, “ that if I
order up a glass of whiskey you will drink it ?” “ Y-e-s.”
I ordered up two glasses of whiskey, with water. I tasted
the one, and putting very little water in the other, I said,
“ Shall we put it under the table ?” “ N-o.” “ Shall Ira
hold it ?” “ Y-e-s.” With one hand on the table, he held
the glass of whiskey-and-water under the table, and in a
few seconds cried, “By heaven, it is drinking!” He brought
up the glass, it was as dry inside as if it had been wiped
out with a hot towel. We took a candle and examined the
carpet, but there was not a trace of moisture. “ I should
very much like that Ferguson could witness such a thing,”
said Ira. “ Will you repeat this before Ferguson to-mor¬
row?” said I. “ Y-e-s.” And so it did.
While we were at tea, Ira said, “ Look at the photo¬
graphs they were all trembling on the mantelpiece.
Examining them subsequently, we found that the figure of
Ira threatening his duplicate with his fist was entirely
erased, the black varnish and face having been scraped off
apparently by nails. The whiskey having been drunk (or
disposed of), “ Now,” said I, “ Ira, let us put out the fire
and the candles, and I think we shall have something
lively.” 11 should be afraid to,” said he, “ it might take
me up by the scruff of the neck.” Of course I did not press
it, and we prepared to go to bed when a loud knocking was
heard, and it spelt out, “Look on top of the bed.” The
top of the bed was too high to reach, so I put an arm-chair
on the bed, and holding it, Ira got on it, and reaching his
arm over the top of the bed produced—the poker.
When the party returned from Nottingham next day, we
related our seance, and all assembled in my room; and
again a glass of whiskey-and-water disappeared in the same
way. These occurrences suggested to me to inquire of the
Brothers whether similar events had occurred in their ex¬
perience, and they told me that at home, in America, in
their family circle, portions of vegetable food (Indian corn,
&c.) were so appropriated and carried away.
If any of your readers wish to ask me how it was that
the spirit played such pranks, I shall be happy to give them
a correct theory, when they explain to me why it was the
favourite pastime of young noblemen formerly to wrench
off knockers, paint over signboards, and upset watchmen’s
boxes ; also how it was that when the Davenports gave a
seance at Oxford, the lively young “ fellows ” wanted to
break up their cabinet, but being baulked in that they broke
up all the benches.
Real human nature is not that which you see acted on
the world’s stage—and under the masks and dominoes
furnished by Mrs. Grundy, Mrs. Propriety, and Mrs. De¬
corum, are spirits in the flesh as ready for a lark as the
one which favoured me and Ira with its company at the
hotel at Manchester.—Spiritual Magazine.
Mrs. Corner (Florence Cook), who has been seriously ill for upwards
of the past five weeks, is recovering.
Socrates on the World of Spirits.—Socrates, addressing the
judges who condemned him to death, said:—“ What infinite delight
there would be in conversing with the heroic spirits, and asking them
questions ? For in that world they do not put a man to death for this ;
certainly not. For besides being happier in that world than this, they
will be immortal, if what is said is true. Wherefore, O ye judges, be
of good cheer about death, and know this as the truth—that no evil can
happen to a good man, either in life or after death. He and his are not
neglected by the gods; nor has my own approaching end happened by
mere chance. But I see clearly that to die and be released was better
for me, and, therefore, the oracle gave me no sign; for which reason I
am not angry with my accusers. They have done me no harm, though
neither of them meant to do me any good, and for this I may gently
blame them. . . . The hour of departure has arrived. I to die and you
to live, which is better, God only knows.”
THE HEALING POWER OF MESMERISM.
| Mr. James Coates, Mesmerist, of 12, Lime-street, Liverpool, has
| sent us copies of the following certificates :—
| Mr. Gordon, M.R.C.S., writes: — “Farnworth-street, Liverpool,
| May 15th, 1877.—I have no hesitation in stating that Mr. James
| Coates, Professor of Mesmerism, is possessed of extraordinary powers,
| and has used those powers (whether known by the terms vital mag¬
netism, organic electricity, mesmerism simply, or will-power) with
| satisfactory effect to myself and those patients committed by me to his
care and treatment.’’
No. 1, Constance-street, Liverpool, July 5th, 1875.
Dear Sir,—Three days I was confined to bed suffering from a
severe attack of acute erysipelas in the head and face; my face was
| swollen and discoloured, and my left eye completely closed, so violent
was the attack. I am indebted to your magnetic treatment for my
recovery—having restored me to health by three treatments of half an
| hour each. Robert Mitchell.
To Mr. James Coates.  - —
Bacup, May 1st, 1877.
| Dear Sir,—It is with gratitude that I thank you for having cured
| my daughter, Sarah Taylor, fourteen years of age, of St. Vitus’
| dance. She suffered for three years, but, thanks to your efforts, she
is entirely relieved, and is now working as a half-timer in the mill.
John Taylor, Butcher.
I To Professor Coates.  
J
Dear Sir,—I hereby present my acknowledgments to you for the
benefit received under your treatment, having been perfectly cured in
j less than three days of an internal complaint, the consequence of a
i strain while lifting a piece of timber eighteen months since, during
which time I have been under medical treatment, but without avail.
From personal experience, therefore, I beg to express my entire confi¬
dence in your treatment of disease, and recommend it as the greatest
blessing to all who suffer. F. Hubner.
24, Bailey-street, Liverpool, 9th July, 1875. .
Rothsay, 14-8,1875.
\ Mr. Coates cured me of headache on the spot, after suffering severely
i for one week.- Ebenezer Williams.
| The following extraordinary case of cure took place in Padiham
j | where Professor Coates lectured and gave mesmeric entertainments at
i j the Assembly Rooms, for nine nightsu Mrs. Esther Conner, fifty
I / years of age, residing at 2, Adamson-street, Padiham, the wife of James
j I Conner, engine-driver at Mr. John Thompson’s, states that she was taken
1 ill with rheumatic fever eleven months ago, and was confined to her
j) bed for eight weeks, and to her house for ten weeks. She was attended
I during her illness by Drs. Smith and Fleming, medical practitioners in
I j Padiham. After the fever left her, from that time up till Sunday
II night, the 25th February, she suffered with rheumatism in her right
j j shoulder and arm to such an extent that she lost the use of her
i }| arm, and could not dress herself, or attend to her household duties.
11] Medical treatment having failed to afford her any relief, she concluded
1J | that it was impossible, at her age, to get well. Having witnessed some
j of the Professor’s entertainments, this lady called upon him at the
I j j hotel for treatment; he at once proceeded to make passes down her
i 11 right side and arm. All at once she felt a shock in the thick of her
| |j arm, and felt a something pass off at her fingers’ end with a soap—
| j and immediately her arm was restored to health, and, having found
] j herself perfectly cured, made this statement on the following Tuesday,
! not finding any return of the disease. On Monday she did her wash-
| ing, using her dolly and wringer without experiencing any disagree-
able effects—a feat that she had not accomplished for the previous
j eleven months.”
I j Old Black Bull Hotel, Padiham, 29th Feb., 1877.
j! We, the undersigned, are perfectly satisfied of the correctness of the
! above statement, being fully acquainted with all the circumstances
i connected with this marvellous and singular cure accomplished by
j Mr. Coates. We were present at the time when it was done. This
j lady has called several times subsequent to the removal of her eleven
j months’illness, and states that she has no return of symptoms, and
j that she can now attend to herself and household duties without any
j difficulty. John Eccles.
| I Sarah Eccles.
| j Mr. Jas. Conner, engine-driver at Mr. Thompson’s works, has since
{ ' made the following communication:—“I feel deeply indebted to you
j j for what you have done for my wife, and I can assure you had she
j| received £50 to dress herself previous to your operating upon her, my
j wife would not have been able to earn it.”
| On Thursday evening next, the 29th inst., Mr. R. A. March will give
| j a “ Reading, with some Critical Observations, on Shakespeare’s play of
| (| Hamlet, with special reference to the Ghost,” before the Dalston Asso-
i(i ciation of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
| (| London, E., chair to be taken at eight o’clock.
||j The National Association of Spiritualists, to our knowledge, loses
I {I members because it presents no inducement to Spiritualists residing in
j [! foreign countries to join it. The sooner it professes to collect and pre-
|| serve the Spiritualistic literature of foreign countries, or to do some-
| il thing of use to Spiritualists abroad, the better. Could not those mem-
| j bers of the Council who travel much, be organised into a “ Foreign
! Committee,” to manage the foreign business of the Association ?
244
THE SPIRITUALIST.
SLATE-WRITING- AND MATERIALISATION PHENOMENA, j
BY EPES SAKGENT. j j
I am in the receipt of a letter from Mr. Luther Colby, j
editor of the Banner of Light, in regard to Watkins, the |
medium through whom I got the slate-writing tests, re- |
ported in your journal of October 12th. As Mr. Colby’s
experience amply confirms my own, I give, with his per¬
mission, some extracts from his letter, which bears date
Philadelphia, October 28th:—
‘‘Yesterday I visited Watkins in New York, and had a
brief sitting with him. I held the joined slates out in my |
right hand; my left hand was held by my friend, Mr. j
George Bacon, in his right, while Watkins held Mr. Bacon’s I
left hand. I
“After several uncouth grimaces and gesticulations, I
Watkins said, ‘ There are two spirits writing on the slate, ;
I know, for I feel two influences at work.’ And, sure j
enough, upon opening the double slate, which I had pre- J
viously examined critically, and on which I know there was j
no writing on either side, I found two messages legibly j
written, one to myself, in which I was complimented for my i
good advice to the medium, while the other was addressed j
to Mr. Bacon, and was in a different handwriting, and bore
another signature, the purport of it being such as was
fully understood by Mr. Bacon.
“ This settles in my mind the question as regards the
actuality and legitimacy of the phenomenon of independent
or abnormal slate-writing. It was conclusive evidence
that the writing was executed by some unknown force,
guided by intelligence ; quite as conclusive as that given to
Mr. Alfred B. Wallace through the English medium,
Dr. Monck, and described in the London Spectator of
October 6th. . j
“ With such overwhelming testimony in support of the j
phenomenon, does it not belong to our opponents to give |
some rational theory as to how the thing is done (if done j
by purely human means), before they blindly charge us j
with imbecility as witnesses, or pronounce the whole occur- |
rence a trick ? ” j
Thus you see the testimony resulting from observations j
in open daylight, under conditions the most stringent that | j
can be demanded, is daily accumulating, and must be met |
by other explanations than those of “ prepossession ” and |
“ expectancy.” Imagine Mr. A. R. Wallace, and Mr. Ed- !
ward T. Bennett, both so “ prepossessed ” and “ expectant ” j
as to be disqualified from testifying that in open daylight j
the joined slates never went out of their sight, while the j
writing was being produced. j
Imagine Messrs. Colby and Bacon, old investigators, |
who can encounter coolly the most startling phenomena, ] j
imagine them reduced to a state of expectant imbecility by j
young Watkins, and so made to believe that the slate- j
writing was wholly independent of the visible agency of ||
any person present, when all the while the medium was j
himself writing the messages. Imagine Denton, Wetherbee, | [
Storer, Hayward, all in the same hallucinated state. j j
Such is the solution, and the only one, offered by Dr. j
Carpenter in respect to these phenomena, constantly |
repeated, and constantly attested, in the presence of inves- j jj
tigators to whom his cautions and his explanations are j (j
perfectly well known. j
I will not offend the common sense of your readers by i
supposing that they need any argument to be made to see j
the utter shallowness and absurdity of Dr. Carpenter’s j
attempt to explain away, by his cry of “prepossession,” j
phenomena like those we have had through Slade, Monck, 11
and Watkins. The fact of independent slate-writing must jjj
now be looked upon, by every tmprepossessetZ investigator, |||
as scientifically established. I am not at all surprised that, m
under the circumstances, Professor Lankester should recoil j j
from any further opportunity of testing the truth through ju
Slade. What a blow would it be to a youthful physicist to | jj
have the great revolutionising phenomenon forced upon his |>!
unwilling mind. ; !v
While in Philadelphia Mr. Luther Colby made some jjj
inquiries in regard to the Blisses, charged with fraud, in jj
helping on the materialisation phenomena. Ever since I j(j
heard of these persons, some three years ago, I have been
Nov. 23, 1877.
led to regard them as not above the temptations which
beset the medium whose main object is money. I was
therefore fully prepared for the recent exposure. At the
same time there were evidences of genuine medial power ;
and that this was so may be inferred from the following
passages from Mr. Colby’s letter to me. He writes :—
“ I have had a chat with Major Choppering, who
was at Judge Ease’s house the other evening—since the
Bliss fiasco—he having been requested to attend a seance
there, at which Mrs. Bliss was to be the medium. He
assented, was present, and has posted me briefly in regard
to it as follows:—Mrs. Ease and another lady took Mrs.
Bliss into a private room, and, with her permission,
divested her of all her clothing. They then arrayed her in
a dress perfectly black, and not a single rag of white (as
Col. Choppering expressed it), was allowed to remain on
her person, or to be placed there. Thus her seance costume—
both the outer garments and the under—was all black.
“ While this was going on, Col. Choppering thoroughly
examined the cabinet, which Mr. Ease had made, and put
up in his own house. Col. Choppering found it in all
respects right; he could discover nothing whatever in the
least suggestive of suspicion, and he knew that the Eases
(sincere and well-known investigators, and independent in
their circumstances) would not, on such an occasion, have
left ‘ a loop on which to hang a doubt ?’ The medium then
entered this private cabinet in presence of the company;
the gaslight was slightly lowered, and the manifestations
commenced.
“ Four different female forms were seen, dressed in white,
each appearing at intervals, although no one was recognised.
Then a man appeared in dark clothes, well-bearded face,
and wearing a neat collar around his neck. ‘ The vest,
coat and collar,’ said Col. Choppering ‘ were seen by me as
plainly as I see yours at this moment. There was no
question in the minds of the persons present at this test
seance, that Mrs. Bliss is a bond fide medium for materialisa¬
tion, or, perhaps a better word would be transfiguration. ’ Thus,
you see that the very strong assurances we have repeatedly
had, from old and careful investigators, of genuine
phenomena through the Blisses, were probably founded in
truth. But as their business increased, and the greed for
money grew, one or both were tempted to supplement the
genuine phenomena with outrageous frauds.”
Mr. Colby will extend his tour as far south as Washing¬
ton, and as he is a very rigorous investigator, I think his
inquiries must result in the strengthening of the testimony
already “overwhelming” (to borrow Mr. Flowers’s epithet)
in behalf of the leading phenomena of Spiritualism.
It is deplorable that our mediums should, many of them,
be at once so needy and so unscrupulous as to be tempted
to practise fraud; but let us not overlook the question,
whether a part of the blame does not attach to investigators
themselves, who do not sufficiently estimate the transcen¬
dent nature and importance of the phenomena, and do not
sufficiently realise that these medial sensitives must eat,
drink, be clothed and lodged, like other mortals in the flesh.
Do we, by the humanising power of imagination, enter
vividly enough into the situation of the man or the woman
who cannot well see how he or she is to be lodged and fed
the next week without money which it seems almost im¬
possible to get ?
It must be encouraging to all Spiritualists, who carefully
note the signs, to see how unmistakable it is that there
has been and is continual progress. If there have been
apparent retrogressions, it has been because, as Goethe
says, the course of truth is often spiral, and the coming
back is only for the purpose of making a new and ampler
advance. Thus the very “ exposures,” about which such
an outcry is made, and not unjustly, are resulting in more
light, and proving to the world that when there is so much
counterfeiting, there must be somewhere something genuine.
Most wisely says Rochefoucauld, “ There are falsehoods
that represent truth so well, that it would be judging ill not
to be deceived by them.” Admit this, and we may see how
natural it is that persons once convinced of certain pheno¬
mena, should sometimes, where they yield confidence too
generously, be deceived by counterfeits. Ever since modern
Spiritualism began, we have had to contend with the
Nov. 23, 1877.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
245
spurious and the fraudulent; and in almost every exposure
of any note, it has been by devoted Spiritualists themselves
that the trickster has been unmasked. The lessons to be
got from all these exposures are obvious. But let us distin¬
guish between the deliberate conscious frauds of mediums,
and those tricks and illusions in which they may at times
be made instrumental by influences for which it may be a
question how far they are responsible. In this way only
can the truth be elicited, and a knowledge of the proper
cautions to be applied be gained.
No. 68, Moreland-street, Boston, U.S.A..
CASES OF PURE CLAIRVOYANCE.
HY HENRY ft. ATKINSON, E.G.S.
Anne Yials, whose case was recently inserted in The
Spiritualist, was occasionally clairvoyant, and seemed to
have an innate knowledge of the medicinal virtues of
herbs; but this knowledge she might have picked up in
the country, where such remedies are much used by the poor.
Still, it would be no greater wonder than the same instinct
possessed more or less by almost all animals; and sick persons
will often know, by some innate sense, what is good for them
better than the doctor. In such matters we must gather in
all the correlative instances—and not isolate the inquiry to
man alone, or to one particular class of the phenomena—as
Mr. W. H. Harrison is now wisely doing in respect to the
mesmerising of animals. A large range must be taken if
we would be true Baconians, and really advance. However,
there can be no mistake about the following instance, taken
from my Letters to Harriet Martineau, p. 147 :—
“ I had a patient (Anne Yials), sleeping, whom I was
obliged to leave, intending fully to return within an hour,
and I bade my servant look into the room and see that the
patient remained quiet. Immediately after I had left the
house, she rose from her chair, and, walking to the window,
and looking after me, she said—‘ He thinks that he will
return in an hour—by seven o’clock; but he will not return
till eleven minutes past nine. I shall go to sleep (mesmeric
sleep), and get up again to see him return.’ Of course, the
waking state here was pure somnambulism. It happened,
to my great annoyance, that I was detained by some persons
I accidentally met, and whom I could not see another time;
and on returning I saw my patient looking out of the window,
she having just gone there; and I knocked at the door at
the precise time she had named—eleven minutes past nine—
within half a minute by my watch.”
Now, there could be no thought-reading here, but a clear
case of true clairvoyance; and we must distinguish, for nine-
tenths of what is registered as clairvoyance is mere nerve
and brain sympathy. The fact I have related cannot be
so accounted for; hence its importance. I have more
to relate about Anne Yials, and will return to her case as
occasion presents itself, to compare any special phenomenon
with what is similar in some other instance, for dovetailing
is good in philosophy as well as in carpentry.
In one of my Letters to Miss Martineau, p. 107,1 find
this statement concerning myself:—“ At one time I had a
singular perception or consciousness, when approaching my
door at night, of letters lying on my table, which had come
during my absence. I perceived their number, sizes,
general import, and from whom they were. This was no
fancy of mine, for I long doubted whether it were anything
more than guessing and coincidence ; but then the percep¬
tion or sight of them was different from the image we form
in the mere idea of things. At length, one evening, I saw,
very distinctly, two letters on my table, and from the same
person (it was Miss Martineau). Now, I thought, this will
show me that these perceptions are but crude fancies,
for I had received a letter from the same person the day
before, and it was out of all probability that there should
be two more letters the next day, from the same person, by
the same post. On entering the room, there were the two
letters, sure enough, and lying precisely as I had seen them,
and I must say it made me start, for this I could not sup¬
pose to be a coincidence.”
This occurred more than five-and-twenty years ago, and
nothing of the kind has happened to me since, until this
morning. My mind, when I first wake in the morning and
keep perfectly still, with the eyes closed, is more clear than
] at any other time, and I believe it is the same with most
| persons. But the provoking thing is, that the conceptions,
or ideas, are seldom retained in the memory. This
I morning, when so reposing, I most distinctly saw two letters
on a particular corner of one of the many tables in the
II dining-room, and there they remained. I observed them for
[ | some time to fix the impression, and make sure of the
11 exact position of them. There was one quite square letter,
j | with a long narrow one lying on the top of it, crossways.
| I felt that one of the letters was on literary matters, the
I other on some business. On coming down, sure enough
j] there were the letters, precisely as I had seen them,
j j the one from Dr. Charnock, the eminent philologist, the
| other from a lawyer, to ask permission to raise a story to
j a house adjoining one of mine. Now, I can only account
| for this spontaneous reappearance of a power, from much
| conversation I have had lately with a learned physician.
I Yesterday he took occasion to hold me by the arm in the
| street, and pour into my mind much of his marvellous
| experiences and doings, in the matters of Mesmerism
I and Spiritualism, he himself being clairvoyant; and I
| believe it was he that influenced me, as by contagion, and
I caused the innate latent faculty to burst forth again.
That the clairvoyant ability can be transferred to another
I is clear in the case of Goethe’s grandfather. Goethe de-
I scribes instances of his grandfather’s insight, or clair-
I voyance, and says,—“It is worthy to note also, that
| persons who showed no signs of prophetic insight at other
! times, acquired it for the moment, while in his presence,
| and by that means acquired some sensible evidence, pre-
| sentiments of diseases or death, which were then occurring
| in distant places.”
i Now surely Goethe is to be believed in this account of
I the matter, or is ignorant and stupid scepticism to be taken
I in place of positive and well authenticated facts ? Surely, of
| all men, Goethe is the man to be relied on in such a matter,
| or where are we ?
| j Boulogne-sur-Mer, France, Nov. 19th.
| WITCH-BURNING PASTIMES AT BALMORAL,
( ; Her Majesty, according to the expressed wish of the Princess of Wales,
| | advised the celebration of Hallowe’en at Balmoral on Monday night,
j j The Princess of Wales greatly desired to see the solemnisation of the
| i festival in full character. It was a very grand display. It began shortly
{ 1 after dark. There could not have been less than from three to four
| hundred persons present at the festivities. These consisted of the game-
{ | keepers, gillies, servants, and tenants, with their wives and families, on
( | the royal estates. One brigade of torchbearers emanated from the
j | Castle, another, and perhaps the larger, started from the head game-
! keeper’s house, and when the bodies joined there could not have been
! fewer than two hundred torches. The night was fine and dark and
51 still, and heightened the splendour of the brilliant display, which per-
(I haps has never on any previous occasion been eclipsed at Balmoral
II Castle. At the head of the procession, which marched through the
1 j grounds in beautiful array, preceded by the Queen’s pipers playing
! | lustily on the national instrument, were the Princess of Wales, the
II j young Princesses, and the Princess Beatrice, each of whom carried a
j) i flaming torch aloft. Arrived at the Castle, and the several circuits
| j | having been made by the gay company, the Princess Beatrice and the
I | Princess of Wales approached the huge pile erected on the green, on
j) | the west side of the Palace, and applied their torches. As the blaze
I j I mounted, the torchlight dance commenced around the flaring crackling
] i | mass, in the presence of Her Majesty, and the Princess of Wales, the
j) j Princess Beatrice, as well as most of the ladies and gentlemen of the
j I i Royal household, engaged heartily in the dance. Refreshments were
III liberally supplied during the proceedings. Scarcely had the dancing
i! i abated when there broke within the circle of light a fantastically dressed
| j! company in charge of “ The Witch,’’ enthroned on an improvised
i I carriage, and preceded by musicians. The cortege approached the fire,
111 passed round it and round it again, and at length pitched her sable
j ] witchship into the burning mass. After numerous toasts had been
i) S drunk, amid deafening cheers, to “ The Queen,” Ci The Princess of
111 Wales,” “ The Princess Beatrice,” &c., the proceedings were wound up
i j as usual by a ball, merrily kept up for a few hours, and honoured by the
i) i Royal party.—Court Circular.
1) ] The Research Committee of the National Association of Spiritualists
| ] | asks us to announce that it would be glad to receive donations for the
I j i purposes of original research.
We are informed that a strong physical medium could get several
j j! engagements in Bristol at the present time. Why do not Bristol and
j i Bath unite to form a Psychological Society? In Edinburgh, an
111 advertisement in a daily paper, calling to a meeting those in the city
I j I who were interested in psychological subjects, once brought together
II [ many who previously were strangers to each other.
246
THE SPIUITUALIST.
DR. SLADE IN BERLIN.
BX H. LIBBING.
You had the kindness to invite me to write to yon from
time to time about the progress of Spiritualism in Berlin,
but as there are only a few Spiritualists here, no organisa¬
tion, no mediums, and no interest in the subject, I have
hitherto had no opportunity of reporting anything of in¬
terest to you.
But the position has changed since Dr. Slade had the
kindness to accept an invitation to pay us a visit. Al¬
though we have more materialists here than in any other
place in the world, his seances are creating such interest
and such a revolution in the minds of the people that they
really do not know where they are, or what to believe about
them. Dr. Slade is breaking entirely fresh ground here.
Nobody in Berlin knows anything about Spiritualism. All
our newspapers have hitherto printed only sarcastic re¬
marks when they at any time touched upon the subject,
and most of our scientific men are as narrow-minded as
your Lankester, and they do not like to come into contact
with the facts—firstly, because they do not believe in
them; and secondly, if they have a faint idea of their
reality, they fear Spiritualism might pull down their false
but cherished systems of psychology, natural philosophy,
and religion. So Dr. Slade could not have selected a more
antagonistic place than Berlin. The place is materialistic
to the backbone, and I am sorry to say it is without any
religious belief. But he has been received so far kindly.
People throng to his hotel to get sittings, and he is not
able to give stances to more than one-half the people who
desire them. Some of our papers have given fair reports,
and tried by all means to induce our men of science to
investigate the matter, and Professor Virchow, one of the
stars .of our University and Parliament, has promised to
do so.
Slade has had splendid manifestations since he has been
here. He has already covered hundreds of slates in various
languages—even in German, of which he understands not
one word; and one slate was covered with musical cha¬
racters. It is remarkable that his German messages are
written in the characters of the fifteenth century, but that
the language is that of the present day. I will have some
of the slates photographed, and will send you copies.
Dr. Slade likes his stay here ; he feels very comfortable,
and will not leave before the end of this month to fulfil
his engagement at St. Petersburg. Yesterday he made a
trip to Leipsic, where he had engagements for twenty
sittings, but he will return in a few days. He says he has
found here more people endowed with natural mediumship
than in any other country; there is therefore a good pros¬
pect for the future of our cause in Prussia.
Dr. Slade’s visit here has done a great deal of good, and
we hope now to be able to form a Spiritualistic society.
He has also done well financially; I therefore beg you to
induce other strong mediums, such as Dr. Monck, Mr.
‘Williams, Mr. Forster (if the latter makes his European
tour as contemplated), and others, to come to Berlin, and
to assist our great movement. I and some of my friends
will always do our best to welcome and assist them in
every way.
No. 99, Hornstrasse, Berlin, Nov. 17th, 1877.
. The Berliner Fremdenblatt of Saturday, November 10th
last, says : “ Since the arrival of Mr. Slade at the ‘ Kron-
prinz Hotel,’ the greater portion of the educated world of
Berlin has been suffering from an epidemic which we may
term a ‘ Spiritualistic fever.’ The older Spiritualists, who
have hitherto been somewhat reticent on the subject of
their belief, are coming boldly forward, and rejoicing in the
anticipation of his success. We look on and feel as¬
tounded. You and I are at a loss to comprehend it, my
friends, but the spirits seem to obey this, the foremost of
mediums, as if they were completely at his beck. There
must then be something in the world that we can neither
comprehend nor realise, but which we are bound to try to
fathom. . . . All that the writing medium has hitherto
accomplished has not been of the slightest benefit to the
Nov. 23, 187?.
[>1 world, but has merely had the effect of perplexing and
m bewildering the more sensible portion of it. It is the duty
i|| of the press to take note of every occurrence, and to re-
|)j cord it, and with this object in view we lately deputed one
m of our reviewers to report on the phenomena alleged to
j j occur through Mr. Slade, and we now append his account
| | of the interview. He writes:—
4j Every conceivable prejudice against the supernatural weighed
11 strongly on my mind as I walked into the ante-room of the American’s
u abode. But it was not merely prejudice alone. I regarded it as a para-
mount duty to exhaust.every effort in the endeavour to extricate thou-
)! sands and tens of thousands of my fellow-creatures from the degrading
! and fanatical superstition into which they had plunged themselves.
{! Pinning my faith to nothing more than what physiology and the physical
) | sciences had demonstrated, I yearned to give a death-blow to super-
j( stition, and apprehended no difficulty in unmasking one of those “ seers
j> and wonder-workers,” of whose advent the Old Testament had long
) since warned us. This reflection, as well as many others, passed
j 11 through my mind as I was about to see Mr. Slade, and certainly no
> person ever set forth in quest of the marvellous and the mysterious, in a
) | clearer and more unfettered state of mind. The first question I put
j j after introducing myself to him was, “ How does it happen, Mr. Slade,
| j that you have it in your power to summon spirits—that you alone
| i among millions have the privilege of finding them ever surrounding you ?”
(| He replied calmly, in his Anglo-American dialect, “ Oh, I am by no
| means the only person so gifted. There are many mediums who
| possess the same faculty, and who cannot account for it, and in some
| | instances are not aware of it. Their powers have not been developed
; ] and brought out as mine have been. Dormant in man there lie many
(| powers which have never yet been utilised.”
11 Hereupon we seated ourselves. Let me, however, state, before going
:) | further, that Mr. Slade is here with a gentleman, who has accompanied
< | him on his travels for the last twelve years, and two young orphan
) | ladies, with whose guardianship the worthy manager has charged
) i himself, make up the interesting group. These foreigners occupy
|| some apartments, two stories high, in the “ Hotel Kronpriuz.” The
| i reception room, with the ladies’ room leading out of it, lies on the right
) I of the corridor, and the apartment of Mr. Slade on the left—a con-
< | junction that is altogether opposed to the idea of a concealed galvanic
j | battery, or any other such arrangement. The most careful investi-
!) i gator must, after minute examination, arrive only at this conclusion.*
j | Mr. Slade, who will in March next attain his 40th year, gives the
11 impression of an amiable man, who is not only convinced of the truth
11 of the phenomena that occur through him, but utterly overpowered by
(| their magnitude. To all appearance, his education has been a very super-
) i ficial one. His father was a farmer, and subject to hallucinations from his
(| childhood, and his mother was a victim to the same diseased imagination
) i —so we gather from what he tells us. Mr. Slade has been married;
| is now a widower, and, being incapacitated from earning his livelihood
(! in any other way than by his peculiar sensitiveness as a Spiritual
) | medium, feels compelled to utilise that mediumship with a view to his
) | own subsistence. He manages the pecuniary part of the affair with
(| great delicacy and discretion. Many go to him and come away without
| the slightest notion that any remuneration is expected, for no entrance-
)! fee is demanded, and it is left entirely to the good feeling of his numerous
| visitors to make any recognition they please of his deplorable endow-
11 ment. He gives the impression of being thoroughly a gentleman. As I
11 and the two gentlemen who were with me were about to take our seats,
11 Mr. Slade directed me to the chair on his right. We all laid our hands
11 on the table, which we had previously examined carefully; almost imme-
I diately afterwards the medium shuddered convulsively, and informed
us, to my no small astonishment, that I was possessed of the same gift
• i as himself. Hereupon I remarked that I had certainly entertained no
I ] idea of it.
d Mr. Slade—“ Let us proceed to ask questions.”
II I—“Questions? How? Of whom ?”
Without giving any answer to my interrogation, Mr. Slade took up
11 one of the slates I had brought with me, bit off a small piece of pencil,
i i and placed both it and the slate under the edge of the table on the side
11 nearest me. I can testify that the top of the table rested on the slate—
11 it knocked against it—and distinctly and undoubtedly we heard the
11 sound of writing. Mr. Slade drew the slate forward, and on it we saw
i inscribed the answer to my question whether I was a medium—“ Yes,
lj he is”—“«7o, er ist.” I was silent and thoughtfuL “If this is
>j humbug,” thought I, “it is managed with rare assurance and skill.”
j | Mr. Slade smiled in a somewhat sympathetic and compassionate
11 manner, and proceeded to make further experiments. He took both my
11 slates, laid one over the other, placed a piece of pencil between, and
\ \ held both the slates on the table, leaning them against my breast.
After the reiterated question, “ Will you write?” we heard raps, and
j then the sound of a pencil writing, for more than a minute, after which
the slates were placed before me, and we read Scriptural sentences in
i three languages—French, Greek, and English. At Mr. Slade’s request,
we all laid our hands on the table, and found it rise as if our whole
efforts had been directed to elevating it in the air; and previously our
hands had been resting on it, without our perceiving the slightest
| movement.
With my scepticism somewhat shaken, but with a feeling of incre-
| dulity still, I quitted Mr. Slade. In the reception-room I encountered
Dr. C , who had travelled from Silesia on hearing of the arrival of
the medium at Berlin. His object was to question him regarding the
whereabouts of a young man, the son of an intimate friend of his, who,
there was some reason to fear, had met with an untimely end.
i * Remark by Editor of the Fremdenblatt:—“ This does not seem quite so clear to us,”
247
Nov. 23, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST.
MR. ALFRED TENNYSON’S TRANCES. j |
The Religio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago), of Novem- j/j
ber 3rd last, quotes the following from The Hartford j I
Times:— |)|
About three and a half years ago a Mr. Benjamin Blood, !)|
of Amsterdam, N.Y., wrote a book, entitled The Anaesthetic jjj
Revelations and the Gist of Prophecy, in which he laboured |;j|
to prove that “ there is an invariable and reliable condition m
(or uncondition) ensuing about the instant of recall from K j
anaesthetic stupor to sensible observation, or ‘coming to,’ j)j
in which the genius of being is revealed,” and sent a copy m
of it to the poet Tennyson. In return Mr. Tennyson wrote k|
to Mr. Blood the following curious and interesting letter, j)j
which we have just got hold of, and which will be read jj
with especial interest by those who have noted the intro- Kj
spective habit of thought which some of his poems so [>
unmistakably indicate :— j |
Farringford, Freshwater, Isle of Wight, May 7th, 1874. |j |
Sir,—I have to thank you for your essay and photo- I
graph. The face is that of one (it seems to me) born to j) j
grapple with difficulties, metaphysical and other, and the || |
essay does not belie the face—a very notable sketch of j) |
metaphysics, ending, apparently, yet once more, in the j j
strange history of human thought, with the placid Buddha, jj j
as verified by nineteenth century anaesthetics. j !
But what need you my praise when you have secured \\ \
the approval of him who is, by report, our greatest, or one of j j
our greatest Hegellians, whereas I, though I may have a gleam \) \
of Kant, have never turned a page of Hegel, all that I know I j j
of him having come to me ab ster and obscurely through the R j
talk of others, nor have I ever vigorously delivered myself j)l
to dialectics. !
I have never had any revelations through anaesthetics, U
but a kind of “waking trance” (this for lack of a better ||
word) I have frequently had quite up from boyhood, when |(
I have been all alone. This has often come upon me j
through repeating my own name to myself, silently, till all I
at once, as it were, out of the intensity or consciousness j
of individuality, the individuality itself seemed to dissolve j
and fade away into boundless being—and this not a con- j
fused state, but the clearest of the clearest, the surest j
of the surest, utterly beyond words—whose death was an jj
almost laughable impossibility—the loss of personality (if j
so it were) seeming no extinction, but only true life. |j
I am ashamed of my feeble description. Have I not j
said the state is beyond words? But in a moment, when
I come back into my normal condition of sanity, I am j
ready to fight for “Meine Liebe Ich,” and hold that it j
will last for aeons of aeons. j
In Lucretius “What is Duty?” was the first read- j
ing. It was altered because Lucretius, nowhere, I think, j
makes mention of duty in that sense; but it now stands |
again as at first. jj
If ever you come over to England I shall be glad to j
welcome you here. Believe me, yours very truly, j<
A. Tennyson. j
Pbinted matter, useful for distribution, may be obtained gratis on j j
application to the hon. secretary of the Dalston Association of Inquirers j (
into Spiritualism, 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane, London, E. j
On Sunday next Mr. W. J. Colville will deliver an inspirational dis- j
course in Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, London, on “ The Day of i
Rest, and How Best to Observe It,” followed by a poem; service at | J
11.15 a.m. In the evening of the same day he will lecture in Doughty H
Hall, at 7 o’clock, on “ Elementary Spirits.” On Monday, Nov. 26th, j
at 8 p.m., in Langham Hall; subject of address and poem to be chosen i<
by the audience. Questions invited at the close. Admission free.
The Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism has issued j i
letters to the various metropolitan Spiritualist and Psychological organi- j <
sations, to ascertain whether they are disposed to combine for the pur- jj
pose of making suitable arrangements for a New Year’s Entertainment n
early in January next. It is suggested that the entertainment shall be j1
of a miscellaneous nature, and wind up with a ball. The arrangements i j
are proposed to be made by a committee of management, to consist of j
representatives from the several metropolitan associated bodies.
The reading of the second part of Mr. W. H. Harrison’s paper on j!
“The Mesmerising of Animals,” with adjourned discussion thereon,
will take place at the third of the winter series of fortnightly Monday
evening discussion meetings of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism, at their Rooms, 53, Sigdon-road, Hackney Downs, London, j
E., next Monday week, December 3rd, at eight o’clock. Communications
from Dr. Carpenter and others on the subject of the paper will be read f
at the meeting.
A HAUNTED HOUSE IN SAN FRANCISCO.
The New York Sun of October 14th quotes the following from the
San Francisco Chronicle:—
Mysterious manifestations of recent occurrence at the dwelling, 933,
Howard-street, have created something of a sensation, and form the
leading topic of discussion in that neighbourhood. The dwelling in
question had been occupied for several years by Philip Kennedy, of the
firm of Kennedy and Brennan, dry goods merchants, corner of Third
and Minna-streets. The family enjoyed the tranquil composure that
usually falls to the lot of well-regulated households, until one day, about
the middle of last week, when confusion worse confounded descended
upon the abode. The family had been absent during the day, having
previous to their departure secured all the doors and windows of the
house. On their return they found the doors and windows all open,
and everything in the house in a disturbed condition. But nothing was
missing, and there was no indication of a visitation of thieves. The family
were at a loss to account for the cause and purpose of this disturbance.
The following morning, while Mrs. Kennedy was standing in the hall¬
way, after delivering her orders to the butcher, the hat-stand suddenly
waltzed up beside her, and immediately a general racket was commenced
throughout the house, as if every article of furniture on the premises had
joined in a riotous dance of death. Chairs, tables, and bedsteads
hobbled about the rooms, as if suddenly endowed with life and instinct;
the piano kept up an incessant thrumming and thrashing through the
day; drawers, closets, and trunks that had been securely locked against
mortal intrusion, were opened, and their contents thrown about the
rooms; the crockery was clattered about to increase the general din,
and everything portable upon the premises was displaced. When Mrs.
Kennedy directed the servant to place the baby in a parlour swing, the
swing was suddenly raised to the ceiling and held there by invisible
hands, and finally thrown out of a window, as the servants retreated
aghast. All the pictures in the house were turned face to the walls,
with the exception of that of the Virgin Mary and a portrait of Mrs.
Kennedy’s father. The latter was served the same way after the old
gentleman had entered the house, and while he was standing looking at
the painting. This startling exhibition of supernatural power occurred
in open daylight, and for a great part in the presence of the whole
family. At one time Mrs. Kennedy, fearing the destruction of a
valuable mantel clock, carried it to another apartment and placed it on
a bed. Immediately after it was as carefully lifted from the bed by the
mysterious agency at work, and placed upon a table on the opposite side
of the room. Many other like astonishing incidents are described in
connection with this strange visitation.
On Friday last there was a cessation of the disturbances, and the
family, who had several times sought refuge with their neighbours,
indulged the hope that the alarming and unendurable manifestations
had finally subsided. But expectation was doomed to disappointment.
At about five o’clock on Saturday evening the gas was suddenly turned
on throughout the house, and every burner lighted as if by a flash.
Again the piano broke forth with a Wagnerian tempest of discord, and
the furniture was excited to redoubled animation. A priest was sum¬
moned, and the father exorcised the perturbed spirits with paternosters
and the prayers prescribed for that purpose, but the tumult was not in
the least abated, and the good man was finally compelled to desist in
despair. When questioned as to his theory of the cause and purpose of
the disturbance, he explained that it was produced by a discontented
soul in purgatory who had reason to reproach the remissness of living
friends and relatives in their economy of prayers and masses for the
alleviation of its distress. Mr. Kennedy hastily vacated the premises
the same evening, and removed his family to the “ Nucleus ” Hotel.
No. 933, Howard-street, is now vacant.
Mr. G. C. Joad is in the South of France for the winter.
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze and Mr. Edward Maitland (author of
England and Islam) are in Paris.
Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., will read a paper next Monday evening,
before the National Association of Spiritualists, on Form Manifestations.
Mr. Frank Dietz and Miss Ella Dietz will give recitals to-morrow at
The Mansion, Richmond-hill, and next Monday week at the Langham
Hall, London. Their entertainment is of a refined and pleasing cha¬
racter, and should be well supported by Spiritualists, since they have
always been so ready to efficiently add to the interest of public gatherings
connected with the movement.
Colonel Olcott writes from New York:—“ It pleases Theosophists
greatly to see that some English Spiritualists thoroughly appreciate
the importance of mesmerism as a factor in the mediumistic problem.
This is one of our most strenuously urged points. We think that the
day of phenomenalism is pretty well gone by, and that we should set
about discovering the science and philosophy behind the marvels.”
The Psychological Society oe Great Britain.—Next Thursday
week the business of the Psychological Society is—1. Discussion “ On
the Alleged Phenomena of Slate Writing,” as described by Mr. Alfred
R. Wallace, in his letter to the Spectator, 6th October, 1877 (Mr.
Stainton-Moses) ; 2. Adjourned debate on President’s Paper, “Psycho¬
logy of Wit and Humour ” (Professor Plumptre). Meetings are held
on the 1st and 3rd Thursdays, November to June. Town members
pay two guineas per annum; country members, one guinea. Ladies’
tickets, available for all meetings not expressly excepted, one guinea per
annum. Each member may introduce two visitors by written order.
Reports of psychological facts and phenomena are invited from all
quarters. The society is about to publish a selection of these reports.
A revised list of members will shortly be published. The honorary
secretary (Mr. F. K. Munton, of Willesden), wishes to be informed of
any change of residence; also what printed papers, read before the
society, have reached the members, that the deficiency, if any, may be
made up. Our report of last week’s proceedings is deferred,
248
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 23, 1877.
fonts.
SPIRIT MUSIC.
That music in the twilight! that music in the air!
It stirs my heart, it stirs my soul, like some forgotten prayer
Breathed in my early childhood’s home, beside my mother’s knee,
And soft and sweet, and sad and graye, that music is to me.
Where did I hear it sounding last ?—’tis some remembered strain
Awakening echoes in my breast that dormant long had lain ;
It was not in the ball-room—Oh no, it could not be 1
’Tis only fit for twilight eves or moonbeam-lighted sea.
Where did I hear these strains before ? Was it in other climes,
Beside the summer streamlet and beneath the bending limes ?
Is it a song of the olden time? Or is it a strain of earth?
Was it first chanted by angels ? Where did it take its birth ?
Was it sung in the isles of the ocean, down by the coral bed ?
Did it come from the lips of a “ Banshee,” breathing a wail for the dead ?
Oh, mournful music and solemn! you carry my soul away.
Oh, dreamy music, you lull me with your enchanted play.
Oh, exquisite music, you draw me up into the breezy air,
I follow you breathless and panting, for you beckon me everywhere ;
Yon tell me of things I know not, of hopes that are buried deep ;
You speak of bright, happy, golden dreams that only arise in sleep ;
You waft me over the mountain and over the valley green,
And down by the sunless torrent where never a foot hath been.
Then bear me upwards, upwards, away from this world’s unrest,
High over the cliff and the castle, high over the eagle’s nest;
Bear me to heavenly mansions—take me, oh take me there!
Take me, oh beautiful music I take me, oh music of prayer!
ormeajjonuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents^who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and, its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned ;
copies should he kept by the writers.]
A VISION OF A LIFE.
Sir,—May I trouble you with a few lines ?
What is Spiritualism? This question, under another name, has
sorely vexed ’me since early childhood. That we are of two distinct
parts, mortal and immortal, spiritual and material, few deny; that the
spiritual propels the material to perform the every-day work of our
human existence, is evident, and generally acknowledged; that in
ninety-nine cases out of every hundred the spiritual is saddened,
weighed down, and kept in bondage by the materialisation of our
animal propensities and passions must be equally evident to the
thoughtful. Are there not hundreds, nay thousands, who eat, drink,
and sleep, regardless of the spiritual gem that lies fettered by their
sensual natures, never to be developed or perfected by reason of the
human clay that surrounds it? To such, Wolsey’s creed that “ it all
ends in a little handful of white dust,” may be well enough, but to those
who know and feel there is a higher and purer life, another sphere
holier and purer than the one we now fill, to those who feel within them
the yearning to know, what of ? where from ? where to ? such a creed
would be a crude and biting sarcasm. Is it no comfort to feel that when
we lay the mortal remains of the beloved in their last earthly resting-
place, that their disembodied spirits are permitted, at least for a time, to
hover near, perhaps to guide, perhaps to guard, in the hour of doubt or
temptation ?
To those who have made physiology and psychology their especial
study, it is evident that there is (what the French call) a rapport
between natures of highly sensitive organisation'; how far this rapport
or communion extends between the realistic and spiritual worlds can
only be determined by unbiassed research. To all are not given the
same gifts, nor to all the same powers intellectually or physically, but
one command is given to all alike; to cultivate and perfect the talents
that are ours. As yet I am not a member of any association (Spirit¬
ualist), and till three weeks since never attended a seance, and then it
was at the house of a humble working man, but 1 received such a proof
of an influence beyond the power of this world’s agents, that put doubt
away, and sent me back to the memories and convictions of years ago,
when my friends ridiculed what they were pleased to term my “ absurd
hallucinations,’’ my ‘‘witch-like propensities.”
I will give what I called then “ a vision,” just as the experience was
written down at the time, and the facts can be authenticated by living
witnesses. I sought not then, I ask not now, whence came the heavy
and lethargic calm that seemed so often to envelope my whole being,
shrouding me, as it were, from the present worldly surroundings, and
carrying my spirit far, far away. I only know it was.^On one particular
evening, I sat alone waiting my husband’s return home; it was one of
those evenings that seemed always to have an almost painfully subduing
effect on me. An August night, a breathless calm, with only air enough
to fan an aspen, heavy, too, with the fragrance of a thousand sweet
scents. Lulled in dreamy reveries, I recal even now the sense of soul-
communion, and in my heart I yearned to know something of the future.
Then it seemed as if the very force of that yearning silent cry had lured
phantom spirits from another world; I heard a prolonged sigh, deep
and thrilling, and felt as if an unseen power carried my soul I knew
not where, till I thought it lay upon a bank of clouds piled high above
the earth. Fathomless, impenetrable, endless space was round me,
filled with voiceless sounds, rising and falling as with the murmurs of a
distant throng.
Before me there hung suspended by a golden cord a pale and pearly
curtain formed of vapour, edged with silver; ever and anon its mystic
folds would shake and quiver, as though some passing breath had ruffled
it; next a shadow passed athwart, and then a sunny gleam: and, as I
gazed, the mystic curtain slowly rolled aside, seeming to gather itself up
in festoons of vapoury grey, and bn the scene there fell a softened
amber mist like a faint thought of far off glory. There lay before me
the first of memory’s picture, my childhood’s home. I was again a
child with brothers and sisters, father and mother. How well I knew
each face, each feature. There, too, was the marble basin with its
fountain of laughing waters; there the graceful acacia, with its light
and feathery sprays drooping over the smooth lawn; the sunlight as of
old fell on the dark ivy mantling the old stone mansion; and there, too,
lay stretched the old house dog. On swept the picture, and we were
men and women, but some were not. The mournful yew tree marked
the resting-place of beloved ones. Anon, I saw myself a wife and
mother. How the merry laughter thrilled me, like music from a peal of
silver bells. Again a change, and my little ones were grouped together
with tear-stained faces, for one was not. There lay the cherub form,
but still and cold, too quiet. Again I looked. Youths and maidens
knelt in evening prayer, and I heard my own voice go up fervently for
one whose place was vacant; my eldest boy—on whom I had lavished
the wealth of a mother’s love—had gone forth, I knew not where.
Fain would I have seen no more, but, alas, I had invoked the power.
Alas, I saw a deep gulf, on one side of which stood my husband; on
the opposite myself. We were estranged; my voice was harsh, my
heart cold to him. I turned and stood once more beside him, but the
pulse was still, the eye was closed for ever, and I was left to end life’s
pilgrimage alone.
Such the scenes I witnessed in what must have been a trance on the
evening of the 25th August, 1864. Not till 1869 did I lose a child by
death. The fulfilment of the other sad prophecies took place a little
later. I make here no comment, further than to remark this is but one
of many experiences in my path, proving that there is communion with
the spirit world. Doubtless, with those of a finer and more sensitive
organisation, or in whom the nerve and spirit force preponderate, the
development is fuller and more perfect; and, doubtless, by a careful
cultivation of the perceptive faculties—almost painfully acute in some
temperaments—results would be attained that would startle the sceptic,
and frighten the incredulous. To all, I say, think and reason, but de¬
termine for yourselves, and never rashly or impiously invoke these un¬
seen powers. M. H.
CAN THE MATERIAL DEMONSTRATE THE IMMATERIAL?
Sir,—Having read the able presidential address of Mr. Seqeant Cox
to the Psychological Society of Great Britain, to be found in The Spirit¬
ualist of the 9 th instant, I may state that I remember reading an
address Mrs. Tappan made a few years since, and which was published
in the volume of her orations; it professedly came from the spirit of the
late Professor Mapes, of America.
It related to his earthly and to his since changed opinions, respecting
the immortality of the soul.
He represented that he could not, when upon earth, by scientific
modes, arrive at the conclusion that the mind of man survived the body.
On the other hand, his wife intuitionally ceased not to assure him he
was labouring under error.
Supposing it to be possible that the soul’s existence cannot be actually
proved by scientific means, or by outward observation, are we to take it
for granted there is not such a principle of life and of immortal character ?
Are we to do this in the face of past universal opinion, and to abjure
past revelations such as that of Jesus, who brought immortality to light,
and such as the present forms of revelation through Spiritualism ?
It may be that if the soul and its intuitions were continually and duly
recognised by us, the soul might be found by its powers exercised in and
through us under those conditions of mind, to give the very evidence we
seek, of a power set up within us to denote to each of us its existence
and immortal nature. May it not speak to us as it would seem it spake
to the Professor’s wife ?
Possibly by ignoring the soul, and casting it out of court, we in effect
lose the value of its influence upon us.
A force is known to exist which enables us at will to move the limbs
of our body. Can science actually prove what that force is ? There are
many things we have been accustomed to believe on evidence unaccom¬
panied by proof. F. M.
Plymouth, November 15th, 1877.
Sir,—By the use of the telescope revelations are made in one direction
entirely unattainable by our normal senses, and in the antipodes of
research the miscroscope achieves equally marvellous results. With
such clear analogy to guide us in using proper light in our search for
an object, is it not a fretful and childish cry to ask for the manifestation
of the spiritual to the material senses 1 Is it not an affectation of gravity
and conservative wisdom to demand proof by material experiment ?
The psychologists know of incontrovertible spiritual manifestations, or
facts evolved from clairvoyant conditions, which it pleases them to
ignore, while they tell the world they are experimenting by the material
methods of familiar and wonted character, known to philosophers and
men of science. Mr. Psychologist must use spiritual instruments, or
remain in the dark with his respectable conservatism and deference to
the social prejudices of classes who assume to be of leading intellectual
order.
While “ B’s ” old man (see last Spiritualist) may have “ weak hams,”
and be “ sans teeth,” he cannot get rid of that consciousness of the past
which seems to hold together his very self in its full embodiment of
good and evil. The cry for “ help ” will be answered with sharp
quietness, when logical, unprejudiced, manly thought is allowed to rule
the mind, in place of specious phrasing calculated to be within the
limits of psychological philosophy. Entity.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
249
Nov. 23, 1877.
SPIRITUALISM IN THIS BIBLE.
Sir,—An ardent and courageous Spiritualist, the author of an in¬
structive little book entitled Heaven Opened, and which I believe has
passed through more than one edition, has lately published a much-
needed short pamphlet, entitled Spiritualism in the Bible compared with
Modern Spiritualism. This may be commended as an excellent intro¬
duction to Dr. Crowell’s Primitive Christianity, in which the subject is
elaborated, and treated almost exhaustively.
The author’s object is to show that “ the supernatural realm into
which Spiritualism introduces us is in many respects similar, and in all
respects analogous, to that of which the Bible speaks.”
AH advanced Spiritualists, and more especially the so-called
“ orthodox ” thinkers, will call to mind the many obstacles they had to
encounter in their passage to the solution of some difficult problems,
which a merely elementary knowledge of the facts and the philosophy
of Spiritualism presented, and they, as well as the immature investi¬
gator, will recognise in the little treatise before me a great want sup¬
plied, and a worthy addition to the smaU and handy weapons with which
the unreasoning dogmatist, and more especially the Christian dogmatist,
may be effectively assailed.
The ignorant talk about the “ necromancy forbidden by God ” has to
be met, and may readily be met, by an intelligent appeal to the Word,
and to the testimony, and it appears to me impossible that any honest
and reverent investigator of the Bible can fail to see the clear distinction
between Divine sorcery and heathen diabolic necromancy, between the
“ vision ” given through prophet and seer, and without which “ the
people perished,” and the profane invocation of the spirits of evil for
merely material advantage or possessions. SpirituaUsm, like everything
else, is capable of a Divine use, as well as a Satanic abuse, and the one
is no less emphatically enjoined by the Bible than the other is forbidden.
Our liberty of choice in relation to things invisible, but made real to us
by a thousand incidents and accidents, has exactly the same scope for
exercise, and bears exactly the same responsibility, as obtains in relation
to all earthly good and evil.
WiHiam Howitt wrote some time ago, “ As to the continual charge
made against Spiritualism, that it is the sorcery and ‘ seeking to the
dead,’ forbidden in the Scriptures, Spiritualism is not accountable to
those who cannot make a clear and very palpable distinction: Through¬
out the Scriptures, from first to last, there are two classes of Spiritualism
recorded—that which sought to God and His angels, and that which
sought to the devil and his angels. The one is pure worship, the other
is sorcery. The Jews had both. They received their communications
and manifestations through angels, dreams, visions, by means of the
ephod, and through Urim and Thummim. Those who sought informa¬
tion for bad purposes went to devils, as their neighbours the heathen
did. Spiritualists still make the same distinction, and some seek to God
and His angels, and those who prefer sorcery for low or earthly purposes,
seek to low spirits. Those who seek to God by Spiritualism, seek in
the ancient, ever-existing way, through the ministry of His ever
ministering spirits; nor do they on this account any the less cease to
address their prayers and supplications to the Spirit of God Himself,
and of God in Christ.’’
I readily endorse the author’s expressed opinion, that “ facts identical
with ancient miracles are of daily occurrence. The sincere investigator
into Spiritualism will find that in its light much that was obscure and
mysterious is explained and illuminated. Nothing confirms the truth
of the Bible so thoroughly as a belief in Spiritualism—nothing else
brings it so close to our normal and ascertained experience.” X.
THE MESMERISING- OP PLANTS.
Sir,—As you have gathered together several instances of the influ¬
ence of the mesmeric power on animals, perhaps it will also interest
you to know that there are mesmerists who have power over plants.
This is what I published in my book on Animal Magnetism and Som¬
nambulism (1856):—
Mesmerism has not only great effect upon animals, but even upon
vegetables. At St. Quentin we have seen Dr. Picard make mesmeric
experiments upon all kinds of plants. We have seen many rose bushes
mesmerised, especiaHy two, of which one was dying and had only a
single leaf, which became yeUow and dropped immediately; the other
was constantly green, and was well stocked. The first was mesmerised
to give it vitality, and the other for the purpose of depriving it of life ;
and so it really happened. Dr. Picard has also in his garden an apricot
tree, upon which he mesmerised three apricots for the purpose of increas¬
ing their size, and this, too, happened since these three apricots are as
large as apples, whilst the others are even less than walnuts.
To what is this to be attributed ? To mere accident ? Then Dr.
Picard’s garden is full of such accidents. But it is in every one’s power
to witness these curious phenomena, since the place lies open and free
to aU who wish to enter it and judge for themselves.
Adolphe Didier.
10, Berkeley Gardens, Campden Hill, Kensington, W.
Nov. 16, 1877.
u 'ME soul and future life.”
.StR,—In my remarks last week on Mr. Frederic Harrison’s paper on
“ The Soul and Future Life,” I said that he was unwittingly doing good
service to the cause of Spiritualism, by showing the insufficiency of the
present theologic proofs of a future life. But there are other points in
his argument, to which I meant to have called the attention of your
readers, by which he is helping us, for he exposes the irrationality of
those conceptions of a future state, which do not conform substantially
to what Spiritualism' teaches.
Yet, with a strange and fated inconsistency, while contemptuously
denouncing Spiritualism as “ disgusting,” and tending to a gross
“materialism,” he admits by his negations that this same despised
system fails to contradict, if it does not fully answer to, the conditions
of a rational future for man, such as, in the writer’s opinion, do not
violate the demands of modern scientific thought. For example, weigh
well the following objections, which, while they apply fairly to the
popular pulpit notions of a future state, are entirely inapplicable to the
views of a hereafter according to Spiritualism. Says Mr. Frederic
Harrison
“ A glorified activity implies a contradiction in terms to those who
are imbued with the sense of correspondence between physical and
moral facts.” <£ AH systematic thought implies relations with the external
world, present or recalled.” “ The same holds good of our moral energy.
Ecstasy and mere adoration exclude energy of action. Moral develop¬
ment implies difficulties to be overcome.” “It is a continual struggle.”
“ So, too, of the affections; they equally imply conditions. Sympathy
does not spurt up like a fountain; it implies beings in need of help,
evils to be alleviated, a fellowship of giving and taking, the sense of
protecting and being protected, a pity for suffering, an admiration of
power, goodness, and truth. All of these imply an external world, to
act in, human beings as objects, and human life under human conditions.
“ Now all these conditions are eliminated from the orthodox ideal of a
| future state. There are to be no physical impressions, no material
difficulties, no evil, no toil, no struggle, no human beings, and no
| human objects. The only condition is a complete absence of all
conditions, or all conditions of which we have any experience. And
| we say, we cannot imagine what you mean by your intensified sym-
| pathy, your broader thought, your infinitely varied activity, when you
begin by postulating the absence of all that makes sympathy, thought,
and activity possible, all that makes Hfe really noble.
“ A mystical and inane ecstasy is an appropriate ideal for this
paradise of negations, and this is the orthodox view; but it is not a
high view. A glorified existence of greater activity and development
may be a high view, but it is a contradiction in terms; exactly, I
say, as if you were to talk of a higher civihsation without any human
I beings.”
Surely a good Spiritualist, arguing in favour of the reasonableness of
j those views of the future Hfe, deducible from our facts and researches,
II could not have done much better than this, in first clearing the way from
I i the obstructions and inconsistencies which the imagination of religious
II teachers has introduced. No one of Mr. F. Harrison’s arguments hits
11 the Spiritualistic scheme of things as they are supposed to exist in the
I i unseen world, which we enter at death. All his objections to Spiritualism
J i are purely aesthetic. A state that would meet his demands for what is
[| reasonable and consistent awakens his “disgust.” He cries out in
j alarm, “This is the physical theory of another Hfe! This is the un-
| spiritual denial of the soul, the binding it down to the clay of the body! ”
To this somewhat comical attempt to “ turn the tables ” upon Christian
II believers, by affecting to make beHef in the soul’s annihfiation more
)j ennobling than belief in its immortality, in exalting death above Hfe,
H and in shrinking from the idea of a future which shall have some corre-
|| spondence with our present human activities, I can best reply in nearly
j his own words, where he comments upon a remark by Mr. Hutton. “ It
)i is scarcely a question,” says Mr. F. Harrison, “ whether his notion of
(j immortality is beautiful or not, but whether it is true.’7
Surely, with equal pertinency, I may reply to this writer’s senseless
)l sneers at Spiritualism on aesthetic grounds (for the subject is pronounced
j! by him “ disgusting,” and dismissed without argument), “ It is scarcely
a question whether the Spiritualistic notion of immortaHty is disgusting
) j or not, but whether it is true.”
| Ay, whether it is true! And if ever men had reason for the faith
i that is in them—a full and firm conviction in the existence of the
| essential man after the dissolution of the physical body—it is the modern
v| Spiritualist. Our phenomena have gone on accumulating in breadth,
11 variety, and power every year, since the outbreak in 1848. So rapid
11 has been their development, that we have had little time as yet to co-
j j ordinate, classify, and study them as they deserve. Men of culture
) i and of science, with a few noble exceptions, have kept aloof, as if afraid
i of the uncanny marvels, or reluctant to recognise them until fashion and
{! convention shall have given their full approval of the condescension.
II But I doubt whether the epithets “disgusting,” “fraudulent,” “im-
j j possible,” from such superficial, reluctant, and “ prepossessed ” inquirers
i as Carpenter, Lankester, and Frederic Harrison will much longer serve
)! to satisfy intelHgent thinkers that such antagonism has finally disposed
j i of our irrepressible facts.
j i When, as your columns so amply show, and continue almost every
) I week to show, a fact like that of independent slate-writing is fully and
i fairly established, as far as human testimony can establish anything,
j | honest men, who have not committed themselves as physicists against
j) the possibility of the thing, wHl begin to cry, “Hold! we have had
III enough of this bHnd and furious denial. The fact is proven. Explain
V it now if you can! ”
The time when this will be said by multitudes of persons, disposed to
ji do their own thinking, cannot be far distant. Epes Sargent.
m Boston, Mass., United States, Nov. 9th, 1877.
ASTROLOGICAL OPINIONS ABOUT THE WAR.
Sir,—The two well-known astrologers, Raphael and Zadkiel, publish
I annually—and have so done for the last half-century—almanacs for each
current year, in which prognostications, based upon the aspects of the
planets, are given. As these periodicals are generally printed three
months in advance of their year, the reader has ample opportunity
for observation of the various events as they arise. It may not be un¬
interesting to look back at a few of the recent predictions relative to the
1 present Russo-Turkish war, with a view to see how far the vaticinations
j of the stellar prophets agree, and also in order to judge of the correct-
1 ness of their declarations.
250 THE SPIRITUALIST. Nov. 23, 1877.
Taking up the Prophetic Messenger (Baphael) for 1876, which was
issued to the public in the autumn of the preceding year, we note under
the title “ Astro-Biographical Gallery,’’ that the Emperor of Russia “is
under mixed influences, and as the Moon squares Mars we expect
troubles and annoyances to arise in his vast domain. Let him look out
for an outburst of rebellion.” Of the Sultan of Turkey it is said that
he “ labours under many malefic transits, as well as directions, hence '
we look forward to a very troublesome year for him, much opposition
from his subjects, and outbreaks of violence.” About this time the
Bosnian and Herzegovina insurrection, the commencement of the present
struggle was assuming dangerous proportions.
In the Prophetic Almanac for 1877 (published at the end of 1876),
Raphael, having taken a figure for the entry of the Sun into the sign
Aries, on March 20th, 1877, says :—“ Potent and grave are the omens
depicted in the chart for the vernal equinox. * * It is more than pro¬
bable that there will be war abroad, but let us hope that England will
not draw her sword. Evidently there will be great danger, but as
Jupiter signifies the Government, and being almost, if not quite, within
orbs of Mars, let us hope that he will ward off the difficulty, and bring
us out of our troubles unscathed.” Under the head of “ Monthly Pre¬
dictions,” it is stated that “the new moon happens on the 13th of
April, when the middle of Libra will be rising, and the Sun, Moon, and
Venus in Aries in the 7th house, not far from a square of Mars, sepa¬
rating from a trine of Uranus. These positions and aspects denote that
we shall be alarmed at certain doings on the Continent, and be in some
fear of war; and I shall not be surprised if some war or insurrection is
at work on the Continent.” The Emperor of Russia, it may be stated,
declared war on the 24th of the month, eleven days after the time for
which this figure was erected. Month after month Raphael pro¬
claims peril to the Ottomans. In February he has it that “ Turkey will
be most unquiet, and sad mishaps will befall that unhappy country.
The new Sultan will be surrounded with troubles as the month closes.”
In March matters were to be a little better, but in May a “ most unfor¬
tunate time is foreboded” for both Russia and Turkey. In June
Turkey “will especially suffer,” and “much trouble” is signified for
the Emperor of Russia from astrological reasons stated. For the
remainder of the year not a month passes but Turkey is indicated
as liable to misfortune ; and Paris, also, comes in for a fair share
of evil.
Zadkiel is, however, still more definite. In his Almanac for 1877
he says—“At the neomenia (March 15th, 1877) Jupiter will have just
risen, and Mars will be in the ascendant in the first face of Capricorn.
Mars located in Capricorn denotes * wars, tribulation, and slaughter to
young men; perplexities and fears in Eastern parts.’ Mars exalted
above Mercury, ‘ quarrels, slaughters, and discord are signified.’
Moslem and Christian shall again antagonise; the Crescent and the
Cross shall again be engaged in a death-struggleP Zadkiel, like his
contemporary Raphael, continually preaches disaster for Turkey and
Russia, and also foreshadows the present difficulties in France.
In his Almanac for 1878, just issued, Zadkiel takes the opportunity to
comment on the Continental struggle. We quote from his remarks :—
“ The war was commenced by the declaration of the Czar, on the 24th of
April, 1877, the Sun being then in square aspect to Mars (in Aquarius).
The chief astrological causes of this great war were—1st, the lunar
eclipse in Virgo (the sign ruling Turkey) of February 27th, 1877; 2nd,
the conjunction of Mars and Jupiter, in Odeg. 1m. 55s. of Capricorn
(the sign ruling Bulgaria) of March 1st; 3rd, the ingress of Mars at the
neomenia on the place of the great mutation (conjunction of Saturn and
Jupiter) of January 2lst, 1842; 4th, the great star, Cor Leonis, entering
the sign Virgo. It was upon these phenomena that our prediction was
based. That ‘ Moslem and Christian shall again antagonise; the
crescent and the cross shall again be engaged in a death struggle.’ The
Czar of Russia was born on April 29th, 1818. At his birthday anniver¬
sary (or revolution) in 1877, the Sun was in square to Mars. The lunar
eclipses of the 27th February and 23rd August, 1877, fell, the former in
opposition to, and the latter upon the place of the moon at his birth.
Little success could be expected to attend his arms this year, for no
fortunate influence comes into operation until December, when Jupiter
will, by transit, form the trine aspect with the Sun’s place. The time of
the Czar’s birth is not known, but we believe he was born with the sign
Leo rising, and this would bring Mars into the seventh house (that of
tear) of his horoscope at the beginning of the present campaign. The
Cesarevitch was born on March 10th, 1845, Saturn, therefore, passed
through the degree of longitude held by the Sun at his birth in the first
week of June, 1877. On July 2nd Saturn was stationed in 20 degs.
2lm., Pisces, and retrograded over the Sun’s place in July, when the
disastrous battle of Plevna was fought. The Grand Duke Constantine
was born on September 21st, 1827. At his fiftieth birthday the Moon
joins Mars, and next applies to Saturn—verily a promising configuration
to go to war under! The Grand Duke Michael was born on October
25th, 1832. At his 45th birthday the Moon will be in square to Mars,
and on the radical place of the same planet. The Sun will have the
declaration of Uranus. These are not omens of victory. The Sultan
Abdul Hamed was born on September 22nd, 1842. At his 34th birth¬
day the Sun was only two degrees past the sextile of Jupiter, to which
planet the Moon was applying, and separating from the sextile of Mars.
Hence his enemies have not prevailed against him in the 35 th year of
•his life. At his 35th birthday the Sun will be nearly four degrees past
the square of Jupiter, and the Moon will be separating from the con¬
junction of Saturn and Mars, and applying to the square of Jupiter,
which last-named planet will be in trine to the Moon’s radical place.
"Without knowing the exact time of the Sultan’s birth, it is impossible
to foretell whether he will be vanquished by Russia or not; but, if we
may judge from the foregoing symbols, we should say not. No more
mat d propos time could have been chosen by the Russian Government
to commence a war than they elected—an additional instance of what
the world loses by neglecting astrology.” Aldebaran.
> i REINCARNATION SPECULATIONS.
) I “The degrading influence of Spiritualism.”—Tyndall.
)| “It is truly melancholy to see decent-looking people sitting round a table, and affecting
) | to hold conversation with spirits.”—Chambers's Journal for August of this year of Grace,
! 1877.
(! Sir,—It seems that reincarnation, like Spiritualism, is destined to
( excite in those who do not wish to have anything to do with it, feelings
often of so opposite a tendency as to astonish the beholder to see them
together. Thus “ D.H.W.,” in dealing with the subject in your issue of
October 26th, scatters in one breath, and broadcast, bitter reproaches
and delicious jokes, kicking up no end of dust, instead of bringing forth
( a single argument against the thing he so much dislikes. This way of
dealing with reincarnation, however, has not even the merit of novelty;
for only the other day a lady, than whom few are her equals in the art
of discussion, or in the handling of the English language, having thought
| it her duty, as I think it mine, to urge upon her fellow Spiritualists the
) necessity of investigating the claims of reincarnation, was in a monthly
( periodical assailed so unmannerly that she most properly withdrew from
| the contest in amazement and disgust. To the honour of Englishmen,
however, let me add that the most virulent of her opponents were two
foreigners. Shortly afterwards Dr. Nehrer, of Hungary, one of the
most cultivated minds in Europe, and who could tell the most wonderful
tale of the nature of the evidences that made a reincarnationist of him,
thought of putting in a word in the discussion. But the rough-readi¬
ness and the outre jocularity of his opponents proved so obnoxious to his
most sensitive and delicate soul, that he, too, withdrew from the arena,
) as he expressively said in these columns, “ for want of sufficient rude-
} ness at his command.” When the ignorant multitudes, misled by a few
| men pretending to scientific knowledge, rail and rave against things
> spiritual, we can afford to smile on them in return; but when an adept in
j the philosophy of philosophies has recourse to abuse and ridicule, because
j a fellow-student tries to enlighten him on a subject he is ignorant of, he
) ought to be called to order. Mr. “ D. H.W. ” is not aware, perhaps, that
| the subject of reincarnation has been found worthy of serious attention by
i men at least his equals in mental culture, and in penetration, perhaps,
I far his superiors, or he would have been more cautious in dealing with
| it. Would that Mr. “D. H. W.” had at least brought forward the
) shadow of a shade of an argument to feed the polemic with. In the
[ j absence of such I must limit myself to make a few remarks on his observa-
! tions. “ D. H.W.” waxes wroth because your correspondent “ X ” asserts
that those scientists who oppose Spiritualism get nothing at seances, be¬
cause they go not after truth but after error. His tenderness for those men
of science who have tried all their might to suppress a movement destined
) to regenerate the low, ignorant, and barbarous world we live in,
j and who have made themselves obnoxious in their generation, and the
) laughing-stock of posterity, makes me think that “ D. H. W.” is but a
>| dilettante Spiritualist of yesterday’s date, unaware of the life which
[| for the last quarter of a century the pioneers of the noblest of sciences
>! and philosophies have led at the hands of the dabblers in physical
* sciences, or that he has reached that degree of spiritual('perfection which
[ makes him offer the other cheek when he has been smitten on the one.
> Let me tell him what would be the consequences if he ever attempted
| to speak Spiritualism to his darling protegSs, the self-styled natural
j philosophers. Professors Orioli, Stufa, and Stefanoni, would at once
II send for an M.D. and a straight jacket; Professor Littre would sans
[ fagon call him a pestilential individual; Mr. G. H. Lewes would
11 assure him he was swimming in a pool of mud; * Professor Tyndall
11 would curl his lip, and call him a degraded being ; Professor Huxley
[ i would beg of him to go and retail this nonsense to village parsons and
i j old women; Monsieur Chevillard would call him an incorrigible
j idiot; another philosopher (without the prefix of “ natural,” and such
[j a pet that I dare not name him, for fear of causing another “English
i] revolution ”) would proclaim him to be a sea-ape worshipper. I was
11 going to forget my old, and otherwise much respected, acquaintance,
\ | Dr. Carpenter. Speak to him of your belief in spirit communion, and
' | he would at once assure you that in consequence of the suspension of
your sensorium, caused by a hind, so to speak, of spasmodic contraction
of the blood vessels, you were suffering from a kind of ideo motor, so to
| speak, or of automatic action of the cerebrum; that your sensory
1 ganglia have been put out of hinges, so to speak, by the commissural
fibres, thus producing ideational changes, or a kind of unconscious
cerebration, or chronic hypnotism, so to speak, causing a kind of sub¬
jection of the mind to a dominant idea, with complication of a sort of
unconscious muscular action, and monomaniacal frenzy, so to speak ;
in fact, that you are a regular walking hospital, and a kind of living
Bedlam, so to speak. These are the gods “ D. H. W.” would fain to
worship ; these are the idols of his cave, and this is the stamp of philo¬
sophers on whose behalf he cries, “Noli illos tangere /”
- “D. H. "W.” says—“According to ‘X’ the religious status of
(certain) men of science is inferior to that of any superstitious and
immoral old woman who is a believer in spirit-rapping.” Had “X’’
said anything of the kind, I would have fully endorsed his opinion,
for I most emphatically say, that both the religious and mental status
of any old woman, however sinful, who is a believer in spirit-rapping,
is by far superior to any number of the so-called men of science who
would scoff at her, and try to rob man of his immortal soul.
“D. H. W.” seems impressed with the belief that we reinearna-
tionists delight in the idea of returning to the flesh. If this be really
his belief, and I were to qualify it in his own vigorous style, I would
say that nothing more offensively silly ever proceeded from a mind
doomed to everlasting ignorance. We accept reincarnation as a natural
law, and do not discuss the designs of Providence, because we know
that all is ordained for our ultimate good. “ D. H. W.” mistook “ X’s”
figment about his being a savage in Saturn, six times a woman, and
what follows, for a statement of real facts, upon which he builds a
pyramid of jokes. He took a ballon d'essai for the actual aerostat.
* See Mr. Lewes’s letter at page 10 of my challenge "to him and Professor Tyndall.
Nov. 23, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
251
When he is made acquainted with the real facts of reincarnation, and
its different phases, then indeed he might crack the vault of heaven
with his peals of laughter. To prevent such a woeful catastrophe, I
would entreat him to be so condescending as to properly investigate the
subject, or, at least, read one of the many works written on reincarna¬
tion in almost every known language. Meanwhile, as long as we find
an impartial periodical that will place both sides of the question before
its readers, we, the reincarnationists, shall not desist from our duty in
urging upon all the students of the spiritual philosophy the necessity of
examining the claims of reincarnation, the knowledge of which would
enlarge their horizon, and give them a new and luminous insight into
the infinite laws of life. G. Damiant.
Naples, November 5th, 1877.
Sir,—It appears that the theory of reincarnation held by some of the
French, Italian, Spanish, and South American Spiritualists, and the theory
of non-reincarnation, held by nearly all the English and American Spirit¬
ualists, must, it is to be feared, both remain as theories, and theories
only, for some time longer, at any rate ; and it would be well if each
party should concede this, since a difference of opinion on this same
point has led, in ancient and perhaps less enlightened days, to so much
bitterness and bloodshed, through each division alleging its speculation
to be fact. Now, if both sides would candidly acknowledge that the
dicta of spirits cannot be taken as positive truth on this moot question,
and acknowledge themselves to be honest seekers after the truth instead
of violent partisans, bitterness would be avoided, while both parties
would mutually and equally deplore the chief stumbling-block to any
positive reliance on spirit communion at all, as mainly demonstrated by
the untoward and inexplicable diversity on this one point, by spirits
whom we believe to be reliable in other respects. There must, how¬
ever, be a cause for such discrepancy existing in Europe and America
during this,present new era of spirit influx, just as much as it did in
the .Middle Ages or in times anterior to them throughout Europe—
though such discrepancy has never been the case throughout Asia.
By such reticence, which is but the offspring of modesty and common
sense, there will be no occasion to make animadversions on “ French
folly,’’ any more than on Spanish, Italian, English, or North or South
American folly, merely because we may hold differences of opinion,
with perhaps many powerful arguments, short of demonstration, on
both sides. Nor need we regard Messrs. Tyndall, Huxley, Lewes, &c.,
either as “youngsters in reincarnation,” or “ inferior in religious status
to that of an immoral old woman who is a believer of spirit-rapping,’’
while both Spiritualists and Beincarnationists may join in believing that
the case of these celebrated scientists may be analogous to that of the
sceptic mentioned in Mr. Blackburn’s letter of October 26th, who went
to a seance “ possessed of an indomitable will, and had two equally
powerful spirits attending him ; and he did his utmost by holding, and
trying, and willing to overrule spirit powers.” For, surely, there may
be, and doubtless are, spirits out of the flesh—probably two to one, to
those in the flesh, perhaps seven to one, according to Scripture—jealous
and unwilling that men in the flesh should learn anything, or, indeed,
believe anything about spirits out of the flesh; or, at any rate, that
they should learn anything new about spirits out of the flesh.
I confess to being one of those (to refer to a rational article in your
No. of Oct. 26th) who regard reincarnation as “ explaining the nature
of things, as I conceive it, better than any other explanation,” though
still but a speculation. So I would not—Lucretius-like—desire,
still less expect, any to take my explanation for demonstration ; still, I
would add a few words now to those you have, on previous occasions,
courteously permitted to appear in your columns in behalf of the theory
of reincarnation.
First, let us remember that, though the belief in reincarnation may
be regarded by your correspondent “ D. H. W.” as “ French folly,”
yet, nevertheless, it has numbers on its side, even in the present day,
who are not Frenchmen. Max Muller tells us there are between four
and five hundred million Buddhists in the world, who, with the Hindus,
also reincarnationists, number probably more than half the souls on the
earth in the present day. As theists, that most ancient race, the
Hindu, has been for ages pre-eminent; while Mr. Peebles, whom all
Spiritualists must acknowledge as a man of high intellectual ability
himself, tells us, only in The Spiritualist of October 19th, speaking of
the Buddhist priests in Ceylon—*f On very many points Buddhism and
Spiritualism are in perfect harmony. They all believe in the fact of
spirit intercourse; they cast out demons as did Jesus ; believe in sal¬
vation by merit, and merit alone ; believe in the re-births or reincarna¬
tions of human beings till their errors or sins are all atoned for; and
they believe in Nirvana—final absorption. On this, and the origin of
the soul, and the mental constitution of the soul, we had a warm con¬
troversy. I can only say here that I found my match in metaphysics.”
We need only remark that, if Mr. Peebles had seen anything to find
fault with in their doctrine of reincarnation, as he did in that of their
Nirvana and the origin of the soul, he would have said so. So much
for the reincarnationists of the present day. And when we consider
that the wisdom of the ancient Egyptians, as well as that of the great
philosophers Pythagoras, Socrates and Plato, among the Greeks, was on
our side, reincarnationists of the present day need not be ashamed of
their company.
Then, again, we know that centrifugal and centripetal forces,
govern the movements of the universe, which great fact seems to be
entirely in keeping with the theory of the alternately fluidic and incar¬
nate lines of the inhabitants of the universe.
Then again, if, as your correspondent “ D. H. W.” asserts, nine-
tenths of spiritual communications do not originate with spirits at all,
but from the brains of sensitives, under a kind of hypnotism and mes¬
meric influence of their devotees (I omit the expletives of “ D. H, W.’’
for the sake of shortness), we are the more bound to consider the train of
thought in which at least nine-tenths of these sensitives and their devotees
j in the flesh have been brought up. And really we cannot, or ought not,
] to burke any longer the fact that reincarnationists have been almost
I invariably brought up as Catholics, while non-reincarnationists have been
! as generally educated as Protestants ; and, this being the case, we are
the more justified in drawing our inferences from the general line of
thought, by education, of spirits in the flesh, if so little Spiritualism
proceeds from spirits out of the flesh. Well, a Protestant is taught for
II the first time to believe in progress after death when he becomes a Spirit-
ualist; while a Roman Catholic, through his doctrine of purgatory, has
been taught to believe in future progress after death from his childhood
i upwards. So, perhaps spirits out of the flesh may think that to
i teach us one thing at a time is enough for us, and, in respect to know-
[ ledge of the future, they find that the Catholics are one step in advance
( of the Protestants. M.A. (Cantab.)
SUNDAY LECTURES.
Sir,—Many of your readers may not be aware that we have an
earnest advocate of our cause in the person of Mr. T. L. Henly, who
gives a free lecture on Sundays at Dr. Nicholls’s Hall, 429, Oxford-
street, at 7.30 p.m. Last Sunday evening, accompanied by Mr. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, I attended, and we listened with pleasure to a com
mentary on a portion of the Dialectical Society’s report, which was
given in an easy conversational style, calculated to impress those not
conversant with the subject. After the lecture, the somewhat excep¬
tional plan of allowing questions and answers was adopted, and several
present took advantage of the privilege, showing that Mr. Henly had
given an impetus to inquiry. The attendance was not large, and
both Mr. Fitz-Gerald and I came away with the impression that
gratuitous services of this kind ought to be better supported. I write
this in the hope that it may induce some of our friends to aid Mr.
Henly in his praiseworthy efforts, by their presence next Sunday even¬
ing. E. Parkinson Ashton.
Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, London, Nov. 19th, 1877.
SPIRITUALISM AT THE HAGUE.
Sir,—In your issue of October 26th, I read on page 199, under the
heading of a Spiritualism at the Hague,” “ Spiritualism is progressing
i here, though there are also some Carpenters and Lankesters in the
i place, &c., &c.”
Well, Mr. Editor, even if it were quite true that Lankesters and
Carpenters existed here, certainly they are not as stupid as the afore¬
said professors in your country. We, here, only accept facts, while
| your soi-disant savants do what they have done. In France,
le ridicule tue ; I don’t know how it is with you.
I wish to let you know that four of the seven members of the Spirit-
i ualistic Society “ Oromase ’’ at the Hague have left it, for different
I reasons. I believe they were the most influential, and would there-
| fore be likely to engage mediums coming over to our country,
i Mediums therefore should not apply only to the society, which still
seems to exist. I say this more especially in regard to your announcing
I that Dr. Monck is coming to the Hague. I have no objection to
your giving him my name and address, which I enclose. Alpha.
The Hague, Holland. ■
HINDU PSYCHOLOGY.
Sir,—A letter addressed to the Banner of Light, by Mr. J. M.
Peebles, contains so many blunders and misstatements that I beg to be
allowed to point them out. I have no acquaintance with the gentleman
| at all, nor have I any but a very superficial knowledge of the phe-
i nomena of Spiritualism, but I was born in Madras, and lived there a
i long time, as have almost all my relatives, and I ought to know some¬
thing about the Hindus. I have no hesitation in affirming that the
letter in question bears intrinsic marks of its writer having been egre-
I giously imposed upon in several important particulars. There are so
many “ Old Indians ” in London, that I have wondered that no one has
II already done what I am now doing.
In brief, Dr. Peebles makes the following assertions:—1. That he
i! has spent day after day with Hindu Pandits and Shastrys, with the
i Brahmans and Sivaitas. 2. That he has seen their mediums, their
[ i devil-priests, and their Guros. 3. That he has seen the media
i i entranced, and seen them cast out demons. 4. That he has procured,
11 not only their camphor mixture, but other incense preparations, as well
[l as the genuine “ Soma-juice” plant. 5. That all Hindus, except atheistic
11 freethinkers, are Spiritualists. 6. That he has been let into the houses,
I the temples, and the confidence of the higher classes of Hindus.
j i I affirm, without the slightest fear of contradiction, that each and all
i of these assertions are without warrant of fact.
i To pass over the imaginary distinctions between Pandits and Shastrys,
| and Brahmans and Sivaitas, I will say that Mr. Peebles cannot have
j seen their mediums, for they have none, in the European sense of the
j i word. Their psychological phenomena are not produced as are those of
II the western circles, and they have no devil-priests, though the mis-
) i sionaries profess to entertain some delusion to the effect that there are
11 such creatures. Mr. Peebles cannot possibly have seen the media en-
]| tranced, since there are none to entrance, the Fakirs and wonder-
j i working Gurus differing with mediums in every particular, and requir-
|| ing no conditions. Likewise, it is palpable nonsense to say that
11 mediums cast out demons, as mediums are generally passive, and can
)j have no such power. The only camphor mixture Mr. Peebles could
j | have procured must have been some preparation according to the British
11 Pharmacopoeia, as a preventive of cholera, and that is certainly not an
(i incense preparation. What is the marvel in his seeing the
ji “ soma-juice ” plant ? That is common enough, but the priests alone
(! have the secret of the preparation of the Soma, nor is it likely that,
) | after keeping the secret for centuries, they would impart it to a casual
wayfarer. I am afraid it waa a “plant” indeed, and that our friend
252
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 23, 1877.
was sadly imposed upon. No Hindu is a Spiritualist. The Hindus
undoubtedly believe in elemental spirits (the Pays and Pesahsays)
having their habitations in the air, the water, the fire, in rocks and
trees, in the clouds, the rain, the dew, in mines and caverns, but their
belief in the transmigration of the souls of the wicked (or what the occul¬
tists call elementary spirits), and of the continued existence of these
impure spirits in material forms, as insects and animals of lower or
higher degrees of intelligence, effectually precludes any credence on
their part in the possibility of the return, in objective forms of the dis¬
embodied spirits of those who have here led good and pure lives. These,
they believe, go to higher celestial regions, unfettered by any tie to
earth, and gradually lose their objective forms the nearer they approach
the abode of final bliss, the sublime Nirvana, or the Brahminical Moksha.
Any one who has ever been in India knows how preposterous is the
claim of Mr. Peebles to having penetrated into the homes, or temples, or
the confidence of the Hindus. That he may have entered the guest
chambers or the outer courts of their habitations, or the vestibules of their
temples, is likely enough; so have I, and so have thousands of other
Europeans; but that is a very different thing from being admitted to the
penetralia, either domestic or sacred. No, unless to initiates, who of
European blood are very few and far between—so few, that the very
fact of any having acquired the real secrets is by most, even well-
informed persons, considered mythical—the esoterism of Hinduism is
sealed and impenetrable. The Hindus are known as the most polite of
all the Eastern nations, so proverbial for their natural courtesy, and
their higher classes certainly deserve all that Mr. Peebles can say of
their gentlemanly bearing. But courtesy is not confidence, and they do
not wear their hearts on their sleeves.
In another letter, republished in your esteemed paper of October 19th,
I find Mr. Peebles quite astonished at finding in a Buddhist Pungui, of
Colombo, his own “ match in metaphysics.” Every scientist who has
studied the several philosophies of India on their native soil, if to any
degree honest and fair, has had to confess that the ablest European
metaphysicians can hardly follow the extraordinary subtlety of the
Hindu mind; therefore the amazement expressed by this American
traveller is calculated to rather amuse people born in India, and others
who have lived among the Hindus. Nor can I, indeed, find it possible
to anticipate any great benefit to the Buddhist theologians from Mr.
Peeble’s generous distribution in their Colombo college of “ Shaker and
Spiritualist tracts.” The offer was, no doubt, welHntended, but I must
still believe that almost any Buddhist theologian will always be found
more than a match for the most astute Christian missionary.
I consider that such careless, or too credulous and over-enthusiastic
statements as these of Mr. Peebles, can only tend to confuse the minds
of Spiritualists about Indian psychological science, and to strengthen
the hands of their antagonists. W. L. D. O’Q-rady,
Editor of “ The American Builder,” and
late of the Bank of Madras.
New York, November 9th, 1877.
ME. CALDER’S ADDRESS.
Sir,—As a member of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, I trust you will permit me to place on record in your columns
a solemn protest against the opinions expressed by Mr. Calder in his
last address delivered before this society.
He speaks of our Saviour as “ that medium Jesus Christ.” Doubt¬
less, in one sense, Jesus was “a medium,” as He possessed every
faculty and power which can appertain to humanity; but He was also j
a great deal more than we are accustomed to associate with the idea of !
“ a medium,” who is not necessarily an elevated being ; and to designate
Him by this title is infinitely more irreverent than it would be to call
our gracious sovereign, Queen Victoria, Mrs. Guelph.
Nothing is easier than to misinterpret Christianity, and to make it re¬
sponsible for the dogmas of its professors ; but it ought to be thoroughly
understood that the mere sacrifice of Christ, and the mere belief in
Him, were never authoritatively taught as being sufficient to save and
redeem man. To expound the tremendous significance of His life,
death, and resurrection, in relation to mankind, would require more
special and ample treatment than can now be given to the subject.
I am aware that those two self-sufficient, supercilious, dull im¬
postors, complacently entitled (l modern thought f and tC scientific
method,” are attempting to supersede Christianity by a sort of philo¬
sophical, materialistic, transcendentalism ; but after all my efforts in
searching for something better than Christianity, I have not been able
to discover any grand teaching which is not based on its holy principles.
I think before we slight Christianity we ought to make ourselves
somewhat acquainted with its true character, history, and meaning. I
must confess that I am indebted to the higher order of Spiritualism for
enabling me in some degree to understand the facts of the mission of
our Saviour, and to faintly perceive its scope and purport; but that
undeveloped Spiritualism has also its repulsive and degrading influence
is evident in the circumstance that it encourages some people to believe
the contemptible and abominable doctrine of “reincarnation.” If this
“ doctrine of devils ” were true, the probability would be that a man
might marry his mother reincarnated !
After nearly twenty-five years’ experience of Spiritualism, I have
been compelled to come to the conclusion that its chief use is to bring
men to a thorough and hearty belief in the truths of Christianity as re¬
vealed to us in the New Testament; and with this revelation before
us we cannot have a more safe and precious guide through this life to
heaven.
Among other unverified things, Mr. Calder tells us that “faith in a
physician does not cure.” Who taught him this strange dogma ? Is
not faith in our physician one of the most potent and elementary of all
curative conditions. Newton Crosland.
Blackheatb, November 19th, 1877.
SPIRITUALISM IN ISLINGTON.
Sir,—I have opened a depot for the receipt and distribution of back
numbers of specimens of spiritual literature, and would be glad to re¬
ceive parcels from any friend desirous of promoting Spiritualism in
this way. One or two young men are helping me in this desirable
work, and we have already distributed 4,000 numbers. With each
copy I enlose a leaflet, containing instructions how to form circles, as
that gives the investigator an immediate start, and the gratification
of a morbid curiosity often leads to something better.
Alfred Monk.
21, Devonshire-street, St. Peter’s-street, Islington, London.
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY?
Sir,—I ought not, perhaps, to meddle in controversy on a subject on
which I have displayed such signal incompetence; but I cannot refrain
from pointing out to Mr. Pearce the element of confusion he has intro¬
duced into the method of computing time by his criticism on “ Raphael’s”
correction of myself. He blames Raphael for “ adding 14m. 14s. to the
mean time given for equation of time, after expressly stating thatf it is
not necessary to be used with his ephemeris or Zadkiel’s” as if
Raphael had said, “ My Ephemeris is calculated to mean time, which
makes the addition unnecessary.” But Raphael expressly says, “ Clock
time I consider mean time,” and evidently means that his Ephemeris is
calculated, not to mean time, but to sidereal; in which case, of course,
it is only necessary to add or subtract, as the case may be, the difference
between the time given and the ephemeral noon, together with the small
correction for siderial time of this interval.
I confess I was, and am, utterly puzzled to know what Zadkiel means
in his Grammar of Astrology by saying, “ Correct the time also for
the equation of time, if the Ephemeris be not calculated to mean time
for just previously he has spoken of “ the mean or clock time of birth,”
thereby, like Raphael, treating clock and mean time as the same.
Again, Zadkiel directs us to compute right ascension from the sun’s
longitude, whereas in the Nautical A Imanac and in the best Ephemerides,
the right ascension is given, without this trouble, in time. My
blunder was mainly occasioned by this obscurity on the part of Zadkiel,
for I involved myself in calculations that’were really unnecessary, and,
to a tyro, rather perplexing. With siderial time given for noon the
whole thing is perfectly simple.
Writing last week I had only time to thank your correspondents for
their letters; but now let me add, that if they had observed my letter
in your number of Nov. 2nd, they would have seen that I there cor¬
rected an error of copying in my original letter, and that I did, in fact,
set the right siderial time of question, though I got wrong in subsequent
processes.
As regards “ Raphael,” let me say that I have had what I consider
very striking evidence from him of the truth of astrological judgments.
Not so much, perhaps, in my own nativity, because I had to give parti¬
culars for the rectification of the time of birth, and because it is always
possible that the judgment may be influenced by any previous know¬
ledge of the native. But in the case of another nativity which I got
him to draw, and ,of which I gave absolutely no particulars, but sex,
and date and place of birth, information was afforded of a quite peculiar
character, and correct, save that in one respect circumstances were
assigned to the future which I should rather refer to the past. I am
expecting further proofs of Raphael’s skill. C. G. Massey.
Sir,—Through a little mistake, The Spiritualist of the 26th ult. only
reached me this morning, and as postal communication is becoming
slower with each succeeding winter month, I cannot avail myself of the
use of the last number to ascertain whether any other correspondent
writes to you upon my subject. But I at once hasten to earnestly
entreat Mr. Massey to refrain from applying astrology to horse-racing
gambling, and, with all humility, submit, for his serious consideration,
whether “ the voice of the stars ” is not, rather, a holy science, of which
such an abuse might bring ruin in its train.
I have not my copy of Lilly at hand, but my impression is that the
tone and spirit of his work protest against such an application of the
science.
I remember that Dr. Mill, in a pamphlet published some years
“ agone,” mentions that a clairvoyant, whom he educated for profes¬
sional purposes, made known on several occasions the winning horses
in certain races. He, however, cautioned her, and warned those who
had recourse to her power, that she would certainly fail them because
of such an abuse; and assuredly, as he predicted, so did she bring
ruin upon those who consulted her.
Can any of your readers kindly inform me whether Bohn’s edition
of Zadkiel’s Lilly includes the substance of Zadkiel's separate work on
Horary Astrology f A Reader,
Isle of Man, November 5th.
Next Sunday evening, at seven o’clock, Mr. J. J. Morse will give a
trance address, in the Athenaeum, Temple Street, Birmingham.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Candidus (Old Kent-road.)—The fact that animals can be mesmerised, destroys
all Dr. Carpenter’s psychological theories.
A.—Is your contribution a special one, or merely a circular sent as if a special
letter, as on previous occasions ?
X.—In your refined profession you need not fear insult in the homes of the
aristocracy; the cases you refer to, of necessity took place only in the
homes of unrefined unspiritualised people of mere vulgar wealth.
Nov. 23, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Eepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit-
'aalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM,' by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
' who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,'.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo.s 15s. ,
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist", was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. ed.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHIOH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of hign standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s'. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. fid.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing MediumsMp of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations ... . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. ,, II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „ III. • „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for Che Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse .. . . .60
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
S d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spikiiualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 518 A.n.l. Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spintualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . - . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be -
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism; and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South, Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.ty
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible com¬
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-calle d
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267,High Holborn,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST
Nov. 23, 1877,
A
H
NEW ERA. )t
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
mature DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS. 
LORD BEAOONS-FIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use END’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Bldod,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it “
shall have arrived at such a pitch of- sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile; we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. END’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America,'has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips," and
amongst’the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.’’—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EYERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
ENO’S'FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes:—
“ Since I have used'ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &e., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
ENO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
IJ “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.’.’
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT "SALT,
AS A
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent torm.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
L'NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
Ci products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. End.
UNO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
tL with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease: 
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous; annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. — I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “W. B. Beckett,"
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIN,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—"Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain, • *
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression ofFeeJingsin the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of tne Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance-r-Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given-in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Syfupathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy-with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Wam-
in|s—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
’ or Influence.
CHAPTER IV :—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre-
1 dieted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s HypnotisijL.
—The Author’s ExperiSnce—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsenjl—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the £leep—Variety, in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which' they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals'— Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Ciystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
• Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly lExists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—^Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Wakmg
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—^Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII :—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
info Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance —Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Price Sixpence.
The untrustworthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
cf’c., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.8. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION.—The advertiser
is prepared to undertake the entire education of a young
gentleman intended for one of the scientific professions.
Special attention given to Chemistry, Metallurgy and
Electricity. Use of a Laboratory and Scientific Instruments.
Address X., Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Rue sell-
street, London.  
A LADY ARTIST, Spiritualist, and pupil of
Signor Belucci, Florence, and other schools, will, from
the 15th October, receive sitters for portraits in her studio,
19, Holland-street, Kensington. Moderate prices to mediums
and Spiritualists.
WL. CANEY, photographer. Studio
• opposite the Unity Church, 151, Upper-street,
Islington, London, N.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address C.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.O.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo. richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND 'PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WIL1IAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to AH Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10, The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ East Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14, How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Sohgof the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—U. “Poor Old
joe!”—18. The Humafi Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.-r26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to he rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been pubfished for years. ..,
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tastefiil appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads“ No one can help laughing
at them.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’ c
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to he sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read.a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-hook, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays Include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is weU done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
WilUam H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the hook is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic Hterature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate-idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-hook of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [A.R. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, isbound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover."
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the PubUshing Office, ot
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-laue, London, E.O.
