Registered as a Newspaper-
Djw Ifrfo'sppr |S^gi toit| Spritualbm in ($xmt §tMw*
No. 391.—(Yol. XYL—No. 8.) LONDON : FEIDAY, EEBEUAEY 20, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence,
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Pive Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LI8ETTE EAELE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBEAEY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEYOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. B LAV AT S KY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to u The Proprietors of 1 The Theosophistj ” at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief Causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate he credited with having written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch. Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 20, 1880.
Just -Published. Prise One Shilling, Cloth.
Bed Edges.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
A CLEBGYMAH ON SPIBITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART,,
By LJSETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETOHER,
22, CORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
"Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
ALLAN KABDEC’S WOEKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubneb and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention.
THE UNITED SHIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, NW-
Crown 8vo., pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its bearing upon Modern Spiritualism) Science and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . .His eclecticism has led him to recognize philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Fall Mall
Gazette.
London : Tbubneb and Co., Ludoate Hill.
32 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 3d.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored simply by
the influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient.
Any form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (corner of Moscow-road and
Heref ord-road), Bays water, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MR. W. EGLINTON,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT,
LONDON, S.W.
ATOTICE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
JL\ NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily;
and eight to ten. Evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
"VTDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
ILL Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Days
and hours of business—Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
00, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
CHARACTERS’ FAITHFULLY
A/ DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earls-court, S.W.
RATIONALE OF SPIRITUALISM.
E. W- Allen, II, Ave Maria Lane.
Just Published.
M
INLAND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-strcct: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely hound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
T UNACY LAW REFORM
JLi ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, London.
Office days—Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays,
from 2 to 4 p.m.
The Electric Light of the New Era, ob
THE GOSPEL OF SPIRITUALISM,
By the Rev. W. Stoddaet, B.A.,
A lecture delivered before the Newcastle Spiritual
Evidence Society, printed by request.
Single copies 2d. each, post free 2Jd.
One dozen Is. Dd. „ 2s.
Can be had of H. A. Kersey, 4, Kslington Terrace,
Newcaetle-on-Tyne j or Heavisides, Printers, Stockton-
on-Tees.
ill It
% l^Er.nqh of tf;^ ]?j[ngq8s of a»b Jli|tt:5 of jlptjtiualtsmT.
No. .391.—VOLUME SIXTEEN ; NUMBER EIGHT.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2 0 th, 1880.
t
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Nowspapor.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly, Price Twopence.
IQr. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist :—
His Imperial Highness Ni¬
cholas of Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
of Caithness
The Baroness Von Vay, Coun¬
tess W(irmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof,
St. Petersburg
Sib Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexander Caldbr, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
Mrs. Maxdouoall Gregory
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Oaixain John James
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq,, M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jenckbn, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Marryat
Madame Isabel de Steiger
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Von Dirckinck- Holm-
fkld (Holstein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M. Adelberth de Bourbon
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. Varley, Eaq.,O.E., F.R.S.
St. George W, Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Fbiesk, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
I J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hbnsleiqh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P. '
Dr. Geohob Wyld
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.,
M.D., Melbourne
I J. C. Luxmorx, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.3. Tel. E.
[J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A*
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Bareas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 83, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Xdndenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocoa, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex- •
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S. ; Beligio-Thilosophieal Journal Office, Chicago ; 819, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
THE MATERIALISATION OF SPIRIT.
Recently we raised the question whether at
any seance since modern Spiritualism has been
born into the world, anything whatever be¬
longing to the realms of spirit has been so
materialised as to become visible to normal
eyesight, and pointed out that all objects now
producible which were given to their present
possessors by spirits, are palpably of earthly
texture, and not novelties from another world
made permanent here by abnormal power. "We
also pointed out that spirits carry common ob¬
jects in and out of seance rooms, and that the
general range of the facts indicated that they
could materialise nothing, but could so govern
already existing matter as to use it to com¬
municate with man by sign and by symbol.
A correspondent, who, perhaps is hut a
type of other questioners, asks whether we
mean that the materialised hands and full
forms seen at seances, are brought into the
room from somewhere else by spirits. No.
Our meaning is that in those rare but
occasional instances of undoubted materialisa¬
tion, where a mist forms on the floor in full
view, and gradually develops into a living
hand, that the matter composing the hand is
not a new creation, but is taken from the
medium, and presented in another form by an
unseen intelligence.
THE SPIRITUAL TRIALS OF A MEDIUM.
Almost all that had come to me from the
unseen life had been pleasant and instructive.
My own little family had often been most de¬
lightfully near to minister to my afiectional life;
and many intimate friends—especially those
who had been my brother ministers in the
earthly life,—had been around me to impart'
of their social, intellectual and spiritual help.
One of these had been particularly friendly
and pleasant in his intercourse with me—almost
as familiar and natural as when, in our earthly
experience, we had roomed, and studied and
taken our rambling walks together, whilst in
the pleasant town of N—, we were preparing
to enter the theological school.
86
THE SPIKITUALIST. Feb.
20, 1880.
But a change was at hand, a change so
bitterly disappointing as, for the time being, to
cast me out of my earthly paradise, and driye
me into the wilderness of doubt and despair;
for I was now to take my first lessons in those
peculiarly trying experiences, which as I am
now inclined to believe, have made up some
part of the discipline of all who in any degree
have been called upon to become mediumistic
teachers—consciously or unconsciously so—
from the days of the great Nazarene prophet
down to the humblest of our medium-instruc¬
tors of to day.
That there should be something like or¬
ganised and orderly action in so important a
matter as the right preparation of those who
are organically fitted to become useful agencies
of the Spirit-world, is certainly no unreason¬
able thought, especially when we consider that,
from all we have been able to learn upon the
subject, that higher life is pre-eminently, even
perfectly, a world of order. At all events, I
give it as the result of my own personal ex¬
perience, as well as of considerable knowledge
of the experience of others, that the work of
medial development is accomplished mainly at
least, by bands of spirits especially fitted, and
organised for that kind of work. But of the
special methods employed by them, little can
be known by us, for in their very nature these
methods are of a peculiar and esoteric charac¬
ter. It is sufficiently certain, however, that
the action is of a nature to throw the subject
into a great variety of difficult, and often pain¬
ful experiences, through which, if rightly im¬
proved, he will become wiser and stronger
than before.
But to return to my history, for I do not
intend in these papers to enter into anything
like speculative thought. As I now under¬
stand the matter, at about the time of my
leaving M—;, I was given over into the exclu¬
sive care and control of one of these medium¬
helping bands, to the end that my general, but
more especially my medial condition might
be more fully perfected for the new work before
me. But I did not understand this at the
time, and so an additional burden of doubt
and difficulty was made to rest upon me, a
burden, however, which was a very important
help in the action to be brought to bear upon
me.
These medium-helping spirits into whose
hands I had now fallen, though wisely adapted
to the work they have to do, are yet—seem¬
ingly at least—not especially elevated in their
moral condition. Yet in order to be able to
1i do their work thoroughly and in their own
| way, they claim, for the time being, the entire
! control of the subject and his surroundings,
| the especial guardians consenting to this for
! the good which is to come of it. It does not
| appear, however, that the natural guardianship
! is wholly withdrawn even during this period,
k| but it is only a temporary retirement from the
immediate control of things; with the reserved
>1 right to resume, should emergencies seem to
js| demand it. And so, at such times, our special
j< friends and loved ones wait in hope and faith,
| I until the wisely appointed ordeal is passed,
pj and their dear one is fitted for a higher work
nj than before.
It will be needless to give the full details
j?j in this new school of trial; a few only of the
P! prominent items will suffice to exhibit to the
j v reader the general character of what I had now
id to submit to at the hands of my invisibles.
|> The first, and not the least trying of these ex-
|>| periences, consisted mainly in a skilful personi-
K| fication of my special friends and dear ones,
id And it was not until after the lapse of consid-
I11 erable time, during which I had been led into
I various false positions and expectations, that
I I was able fully to detect the imposture. And
| when I thus found out that I had been made
id the victim of a gross and cruel fraud—so it
I)! seems to me at least—I was indignant in the
Isj extreme at the shadowy and deceptive influence
k| around me; and then and there resolved that
p! I would have nothing further to do with it, but
K| resolutely spurn it from my presence. But
Kj the meddlesome voices still continued; I could
jci not at once and fully drive them away. They,
| | however, no longer pretended to be what they
p| were not, but owned themselves to be the
Kj . utterances of the somewhat unscrupulous agents
!<j foraspecialworktobedoneuponme; andplainly
!j intimated that there could be no deliverance
I for me until that work was finished. But I
I had no faith in this statement, nor in anything
| that could now be said in this way ; so hence-
| forth for a long time it was war and not peace
I with the unseen attendants around me. I ad-
Kj opted every expedient I could think of to
Id silence their voices, and sometimes with partial
i> success. But whenever quiet and passive con-
pj ditions returned, the inner voices in some form
|<| would return also.
This condition of things, with greater or less
pi intensity, continued with me for many months,
jsl during which life was, for the most part, a
Ki conflict and a burden. Yet sometimes bright-
Pj ness would come to me even through the
|)| darkened clouds around me. The medium
87
Feb. 20, 1880. THE SPIEI
helpers themselves would at times be quite IS
agreeable in their talk, and many a hearty |s
laugh did I have at the quaint oddities thus K
brought to my inward perceptions ; and at no IS
time in all this experience did anything come iS
to me that could be rightly regarded as wholly |<
and grossly evil. Then, there were times IS
when the disturbing influence would seem to I)
fall back, and a genuine loving word from js
dear ones, or some strain of harmonious wis- k
dom from the noble and the good would reach k
my inward ear.
As I now look upon the subject, I recognise I
a beneficent wisdom in the interposition which js
thus turned me away from a too close and con- !(
stant reliance upon a communion with loving \l
friends upon the other side; as it does not j>
appear to be well for either of the parties to jj
have the attention often drawn away, the one
from earthly duties, and the other from hea- j)
venly pursuits.—Ex- Clericus, in u The Religio- j>
Philosophical Journal.”
M. CAMILLE FLAMMAEION ON MR. CROOKES’ j;J
NEW DISCOVERIES IN PHYSICS.
The Revue Spirite of February, 1880, speak- j>j
ing of the great popularity of Mr. Crookes in j>!
France at the present time says :—
“ He is not only the chemist known to the I
scientific world, but at this time there is not a I
Frenchman well read in journalistic informa- I
tion who is not aware of the importance of his jq
works. To give an idea of his work and of the |
interest which his experiments at the Paris I
observatory and at the school of medicine jq
have generally excited throughout the press,
we cannot do better than reproduce passages j>
from the numerous articles published by scien- is
tific editors.”
The first contribution to this effect is given j>
by a letter from M. Camille Flammarion, the j$
astronomer, to the journal Le Voltaire on the js
subject of Radiant matter, extracts from which \l
letter may be interesting to readers of the |?
Spiritualist. M. Flammarion says :—
“We had, the other night, at the Observa- j)
tory, a lecture on physics—physics purely c
scientific, let it be well understood—very in- \)
teresting and extremely instructive. Mr. W. |>
Crookes, F.R.S. of London, shewed there to K
a select meeting, his curious experiments upon j?
a peculiar state of matter, which he calls >
radiant matter. M. Salet was the interpreter ; Is
in the audience was M. Qambetta, accom- K
panied by General Farre.”
TU ALIST.
M. Flammarion then alleges that Faraday
was the first person to conceive the idea of
radiant matter, as a hardy hypothesis, in the
year 1816. His letter thus proceeds :—
“ At the commencement of the century, if
anyone had asked what is gas, he would
have been answered, it is matter diluted and
rarefied to the point of being impalpable; ex¬
cept when it is excited by a violent movement,
it is invisible; it is incapable of assuming
a definite form, like solids; or of forming
drops like liquids ; it is always in a position to
dilate when it encounters no resistance, and to
contract under the action of pressure. Such
were the principal properties attributed to gas
thirty years ago. But the researches of
modem science have greatly enlarged and
modified our ideas about the constitution of
these elastic fluids.
“We now consider gas to be composed of
an almost infinite number of little particles
or molecules, which are incessantly in
movement, and which are animated by a
tendency to velocity of movement to the great¬
est possible degree. As the number of these
molecules is exceedingly great, it follows that
a molecule cannot move in any direction with¬
out quickly striking against another. But if
we extract from a close vessel a great quantity
of the air, or of the gas which it contains, the
number of the molecules is diminished, and
the distance that a given molecule can move
without knocking against another is increased,
the mean length of its free course being in in¬
verse ratio to the number of molecules re¬
maining.
“ The more perfect the vacuum the greater
the average distance that a molecule tra¬
verses before colliding ; or in other terms, the
mean length of the free course augments the
more the physical properties of the gas be¬
come modified. Thus, when we arrive at a
certain point, the phenomena of the radiome¬
ter become possible ; and if we carry the rare¬
faction of the gas still farther, that is to say,
if we diminish the number of the molecules
which are found in a given space, and by that
means augment the mean length of their free
courses, we render the experiments which are
the subject matter of our consideration, pos¬
sible. As Mr. Crookes says :—
“ ‘ These phenomena differ so greatly from
those presented by gas in its ordinary tension,
that we are in the presence of a fourth condi¬
tion of matter, which is as far removed from
the gaseous condition as gas is from the liquid
condition.J
88
Feb, 20, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
“ The molecules of gas, for example, con- j)
tained in this envelope of crystal (a glass globe |)
five inches in diameter) and. which are now be- Is
come comparatively few in number—although R
there are actually left milliards on milliards— j>
by being no longer impeded reciprocally in their ! >
movements, have acquired new properties, Is
of extreme energy. Here are revealed by the R
most brilliant phenomena some of those mys- j)
terious powers of nature, the secret laws of p
which are yet little known.
u These molecules projected on diamonds and k
rubies in rapid streams, cause them to shine R
forthwith intense brilliancy of colour, green and | S
red, and the glass under their action becomes K
illuminated with flashing phosphorescence.
“ A rapid current of these particles which an ;>
ingenious lecture-table method of lighting K
renders visible to all eyes, heats platino-iri- j<
dium alloy, to beyond 2,000 degrees, melting k
it like wax.
“ It appears that all these molecules, which ]>
have been rendered more free and mobile by js
reduction of their number, act like bullets so R
small as to defy imagination, and the number j>
of which, still in this vacuum of which man jS
is so proud, appears to be still infinite.
“ Mr. Crookes, by means of various ingenious j
experiments, demonstrates the following pro- j<
positions:
“ Wherever radiant matter strikes, it induces K
an energetic phosphorescent action:—it moves R
in a straight line; when intercepted by a j'
solid substance it throws a shadow; it ex- b
ercises an energetic mechanical action upon K
the bodies it strikes against; it deviates from R
its straight course under the influence of the b
magnet; when arrested in its movement, it l<
produces heat.
“These are some of the experiments so j
new, so unexpected, and of such deep interest. |>
The author of them has succeeded in making; is
a vacuum in his tubes of a millionth of at- <
mosphere, and he might even attain to a ten R
millionth, or perfeetionate it even to a twenty-
millionth. Very well, such a pneumatic 1)
vacuum, far from representing to the mind an jc
absolute vacuum, represents on the contrary, j/
still a real condition of matter, and still an b
immeasurable number of molecules. Thus, j(
for example, a globe of glass of 13 centi- R
metres, (about five inches) in diameter, like R
those in which some of the preceding ex- R
periments had been made, would contain some- K
thing like a septillion, thus :—1,000,000,000, |<
000,000,000,000,000, of molecules of air. R
Yery well, if we make a vacuum there to a p
millionth of the atmosphere, the globe will
still contain a quintillion of molecules. That
is no small thing. It is even enormous—un¬
imaginable ! Suppose we pierce this globe
of glass by the aid of an electric spark, which
traverses it by an opening quite microscopic,
but sufficient, nevertheless, to permit the air
to enter ; how much time will it take for
this quintillion of molecules to get into the
globe, in which a vacuum has been made ?
If a hundred millions of molecules should
enter in a second, in order to fill this globe
there would be a necessity of —
12, 882, 510, 617, 476, 600, Seconds,
or 214, 708, 510, 291, 275, Minutes,
or 3, 578, 475, 171, 521, Hours,
or 149, 108, 182, 147, Days,
or 408, 501, 781, Years,
more than four hundred millions of years.
Nevertheless, the vessel is filled in an hour.
What are we to conclude by this ? Why,
that not only a hundred millions of molecules
enter in a second, but three hundred quin-
tillions. The smallness of these molecules
is then, absolutely incomprehensible. They
are, so to speak, but mathematical points.
“ In the study of this fourth condition, or
state of matter, it seems that we have attained
a knowledge of, seized, and submitted to our
control, the small indivisible atoms which
we may consider as forming the physical basis
of the Universe, and that we have attained
to the limit where matter and force appear to
blend—to the obscure domain which marks the
frontier that separates the known from the
unknown. I hope the learned experimenter
will here permit me to make a reflection in¬
spired by his own experiments. That which
he calls radiant matter, may it not be simply
a mode of electricity ? The radiations ob¬
served, the luminous and calorific phenomena
produced, the deviations obtained under the
influence of the magnet and magnetic currents,
do they not suggest directly to the mind the
existence of actions of the electric order ?
This idea may well have struck the author
himself, and perhaps he might discuss this
objection which appears to us direct and quite
natural. This objection does not, however,
seem to us to be proved. But whatever may
be the adopted theory, these experiments are
none the less novel, curious, and of the first
order. We will finish by an indiscretion j
it was in studying the phenomena of Spiritual¬
ism that Mr. Crookes has been led to these
magnificent discoveries.
“ Camille Flammaeion,
Astronomer”
THE SPIRITUALIST.
89
Feb. 20, 1880.
The Revue Spirite in its opening article for
this month, expressing “its gratitude to the
great savan Wm. Crookes,” and asserting
that nothing is indifferent to it which affects
his glory, declares :—
“This problem of radiant matter is the
problem of Spiritualism itself. That which
mesmerists and Spiritualists call fluid, is
probably only a special manifestation of what
Mr. Crookes designates under the name of
radiant matter. The discovery of a fourth
condition of matter is a door opened for
its transformations for ever; it is the invisible
and impalpable man become possible without
ceasing to be substantial; it is the world of
spirits entering the domain of scientific
hypotheses without absurdity ; it presents a
possibility for the materialist to believe in a
future life, without renouncing the material
substratum which he thinks necessary for the
manintenance of individuality.”
Scrutator.
POSSESSION AND EXORCISM IN THE
CATHOLIC CHURCH.
On the evening of Ash Wednesday, at the
Jesuit Church, Farm Street, Berkeley Square,
the Rev. Father Moore, S.J. gave a discourse,
or rather, as it was called, an instruction, the
subject of which was “Possession and Exor¬
cism.” The preacher said that many who pro¬
fessed to believe the Bible, and who accepted all
the accounts of miracles and casting out of
devils, related in the New Testament, would
not allow that similar events took place in our
own day. Such disbelief was inconsistent with
the profession that God is the same yesterday,
to-day, and for ever. With regard to the
possession by evil spirits, such people said it
might happen now, but they preferred to call
it lunacy. Father Moore said however, that
personally, he believed that many of those at
present confined in lunatic asylums were really
possessed. He then proceeded to relate the
case of a woman who had been thus troubled, but
who had been cured of her affliction by ex¬
orcism. He (Father Moore) had not known
the woman, but he had conversed with one of
the priests who took part in the ceremony of
exorcism, and he had also seen one of the
objects connected with the case. The woman
was afflicted in a very strange manner. When
she was alone, and generally at night, she was
frequently attacked by a rat, which scratched
and bit her terribly. The visits were not
confined to one house or place, but happened
wherever she might be. When anyone at¬
tempted to watch with her, nothing ever took
place. The parish priest, being informed of
the circumstances, determined to try whether
(\ the facts were genuine, as related, for, be-
?! fore applying the remedies of the Church,
)| he was bound to make sure that there was
| no imposture in the matter. He therefore
d had the woman placed one night in a straight
(| waistcoat, and yet in the morning, there were
II evidences of a fresh visitation. The priest
! now began to suspect that evil spirits were
| at work. He had the woman conveyed to
| the house of a pious Catholic lady, who was
d willing to lend a room for the purpose. In
| the room were the woman was to sleep, a
I Tabernacle was erected, within which the
| priest placed a consecrated Host. So long as
>i the sacred body of Our Lord remained there,
I the woman was entirely free from the attacks
d of her nocturnal visitor; but one day, in
>| order to test the matter to the fullest extent,
! the priest, unknown to the woman, removed
I the sacred Host, and left in the place an un-
| consecrated wafer. Again the rat recommen-
J i ced his work, to the great dismay of the poor
>| sufferer. The priest was now convinced that
I she had been visited by an evil spirit in the
| form a rat, and proceeded without delay to
| have recourse to exorcism. The ceremony
| took place publicly in the church, in the
| presence of several witnesses, and from that
;l time forward the woman was entirely relieved
d from further molestation.
Mrs. Makdotjgall Gregory is in Ventnor, inquiring
d into particulars relating to an alleged haunted house
| there. The question is often raised why more pro-
>| fessional mediums do not establish themselves in the
| provinces. It is remarkable that Newcastle possesses
>! more professional mediums than Liverpool, although
Spiritualism has so many adherents in the latter place.
“ Just think, my dear Rose,” exclamed a pious old
I lady, just think, only five missionaries to twenty
thousand cannibalsand the kind-hearted niece
)! ejaculated, “ Goodness gracious, aunty ; 0, my gracious
ci the poor cannibals will starve to death at that rate !”
Disengagement of the Soul.—“I said d propos to
l\ the disengagement of the soul and of the astral body
among animals, that the shepherds of Thibet had had
• l the secret for many centuries. The Brothers operated
(\ upon myself, and I slept for eleven weeks, believing
>| all the time that I was awake, and wondering why
II people did not appear to recognize me or reply to
I me. I was wholly ignorant that I had been disemhar-
I rassed of my carcass. . . . . It is a grand secret
known to the fakirs, who can allow themselves to be
interred for months, and then be resuscitated. In a
recent voyage to Jeypoor (Radjpootana) we saw this
done. A fakir, or rather a yogi, caused himself
to die, and so lay in his chamber for twenty-eight days.
—Madame Blavatsky, in “ Revue Svirite ” for December.
90
Feb. 20, 1880. *'
THE SPIRITUALIST.
SPONTANEOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL K
PHENOMENA.
By Eljza. Boucheb.
Chard, in Somerset, has again, according jf
to the Somerset newspapers, been the scene |
of an apparition, in this latter case authenti- |;
cated by names of places, and persons. I js
have delayed forwarding the account, as I j<
thought that it would be sure to reach the j>
spiritualistic public through some other source; jS
finding this not to be the case, I append a K
paragraph from the Wellington Weekly News;
the story also appeared January 31st, in the j;
West Somerset Free Press, under the general |S
news from Chard :—
“A correspondent is answerable for the k
following :—A few weeks ago an old man, j?
named Mitchell, died at Coombses. Soon after
his death his wife became ill and was obliged
to call in a neighbour to attend upon her.
The latter has on several occasions been $
surprised to see the widow rise up in her bed, jS
and throw her hands as if waving off someone K
approaching, at the same time exclaiming, R
“ Keep him off, keep him off! ” She was |>
perfectly sound in mind at the time, and o
states that she saw her husband in the room. R
On one occasion the widow pointed to the
door and exclaimed, “ There he is.” On |S
looking there the attendant distinctly ob- |>
served the figure of old Mitchell standing in the Is
doorway, as when in the flesh, attired in his k
long silk hat and brown overcoat. As he did
not speak she went towards the figure, when it j>
gradually vanished, and she shut the door. K
A few minutes after, the figure again appeared, k
and vanished when the woman approached |j
it. This occurred four or five times, the door ji
being opened without sound. The observing |<
parties are above suspicion.”
Albion Villa, Fremantle Square, Bristol.
MY MEDIUMSHIP.*
BT THE BARONESS ADELMA VON VAT (COUNTESS
"WURMBRAND).
January 20th, 1865. In the evening I j?
took a pencil in my hand, and Thomas, (the j)
first spirit who communicated to us), wrote K
the following:—
4‘Pray for me every day. We are sym- |<
pathetic: I shall be with you as long as you j>
are on the earth. Since the hour of my death j)
I have been your spirit guardian, since the |s
time when I appeared to you in a dream. Go k
to communion and offer up a prayer for the j>
repose of my soul. I have not forgotten your |S
burning a taper for me, and have more than
experienced relief from your prayers.”
(Twelve months subsequent to the death
of this Thomas, I offered up a prayer for his
soul, at the same time lighting the customary
taper.
Eight years had passed since then, and I
had quite forgotten the circumstance ; never¬
theless, I was rejoiced to hear that he had
derived benefit therefrom).
u Be brave, Adelma, then you can release
me completely, for I am still frail and erring.
I am glad to see that Odbn (Baron Yon Vay)
loves you ; your spirits are en rapport. I will
now write you a poem.”
Here follows a pretty rhythmical poem of
thirl y lines, in which the name Zrinyi Gilda
is mentioned, and the question is put “ Who
is Zrinyi Gilda ? ”
Answer. I am Zrinyi Gilda,—a spirit. I
guard Odon. Adelma, lead Odon to God:
mesmerise him and he will also write.
Question. How long have you been with
me ?
Answer. Ever since you have known Odon.
I love you too ; pray for me. Give Odon a
glass of mesmerised water and Thomas will
guide his hand to draw.
After my husband had drunk the water
which I had mesmerised, he took the pencil.
His hand was moved, then began to make
strokes, whilst the upper part of his body
trembled visibly. Presently he experienced
a violent agitation at his heart. I then placed
my hand upon his, and forthwith the strokes
became stronger. I asked the spirit what we
must do, and she wrote,:—
“ The influence works very well. Give
him a fresh sheet of paper, and Thomas will
draw my dear husband, Zrinyi Miklos, who
died in 1552.”
This we did, and my husband under the
control of the spirit Thomas, drew the portrait
of Zrinyi Miklos, likewise that of Johannes
Amadd.
Whilst he was thus employed, Gilda wrote
through me:
“Johannes Amadd was a British robber,
who murdered one Bruneleschi, for which he
was poisoned by his only daughter Yalerie,
who had married the murdered man against
her father’s wish.”
Question. Would she not be condemned to
eternal perdition for committing murder ?
Answer. “ A soul whom God has created,
#
Translated by Caroline Corner, from Studien uber die Oeieterweit.
Feb. 20, 1880. THE SPIRI
cannot be eternally lost; but she has suffered i)j
fearfully : for 300 years she must make |S|
atonement.
“ Odon shall draw her in her robes of peni- !?|
tence. She much resembles yourself in face, |)j
but in no other respect.”
At that time I had never heard of reincar- k|
nation, nevertheless, the idea suddenly |;|
occurred to me, May I not have had some m
pre-existence, and been this same Valerie ?
Gilda then wrote in response to this Rj
thought:
11A soul made of God once lived upon the Rj
earth: this was Valerie Amadd, whom God jsj
chastised through suffering: you are Adelma !<j
Vay.”
This spirit knew nothing of reincarnation.
January 25th, 1865. Odon drew Valerie Kj
Amadd, also another spirit, en penitence. Rj
The portraits were executed now with great >j
rapidity and lightness of touch, the medium jSj
frequently feeling an intense desire for it, Kj
and experiencing considerable relief after the k|
completion of each picture. Rj
The automatic writing was invariably Kj
apropos to the occasion. Occasionally Thomas jsj
and Gilda were inclined to write nonsense, j?j
but I begged them to be earnest and desirous Kj
to instruct. Thomas wrote:
u I am still frail; but if you pray to God, Rj
He will send your worthy father, who is more j
advanced than I. Do not give up the writing, bj
it will do you good and is a great blessing to |>j
us. Be not impatient if I write frivolous j^j
things. God determines all things : the j^j
world is governed by His will. In the spirit Kj
world there are many grades of developement. jsj
u All souls are the offspring of God, and kj
every prayer can reach Him. The spirits who m
passed away in the war of 1859 will return jSi
to earth in 1910.”
This spirit evidently knew something of lei
reincarnation: I asked if such were possible. Kj
Thomas. a I know that it is so. Trust in is
God, and all shall be made clear to you in R
time. Gilda will now draw the spirit who j(j
watched over and protected Odon, during the Rj
late campaign.”
My husband took the pencil and first drew |s
a peruke, then a face all awry, which was Rj
afterwards crossed out and the portrait drawn Kj
again; this was very well. It was Marietta, K|
Odon’s guardian spirit in the late war.
Question. il Why was the first picture a Rj
failure ? ” j>j
Answer. “ A certain spirit, named Vay Kj
Laczi, came between Odon and Gilda and Ri
T UAL I ST. 91
spoilt the drawing. This Laczi often annoys
us: he is very passionate. He lived 300
years ago, and had a heart of stone.”
Later on we had the opportunity of ob¬
serving the passionate nature of this Vay
Laczi. He spoilt many of Odon’s drawings
and woefully tried our patience. He also
desired us to turn treasure-hunters, furnishing
us with full particulars as to where, as he said,
many Huns were buried with their gold and
jewels. Moreover he would knock loudly
upon the table, and wanted to appear tangibly
to us, so that he could work marvels.
Thomas however warned us of him, and
begged us not to seek for such tests.
February 11th, 1865. In the evening
Thomas wrote through me:
u God has heard your prayer ; your beloved
father is here and will write presently.”
A feeling of tranquillity stole over me: the
writing completely changed. I had the
consciousness of repose, of another spirit-
presence, and was inspired with lofty and
devout aspirations. Bye and bye, my hand
was moved to write.
11 Your father, Ernst, is here. I see you
my children, and will help you. Your call
reached me: God permits me to come. My
dear children, be true to yourselves, and pray
for me. Death brought me pain, then joy and
deliverance. Doubt not that pure spiritual
communion is beneficial: it redeems, and is
sanctioned by the Great and Merciful God.”
The same evening, Gilda drew through my
husband, the portrait of the Emperor Carl I.
and Thomas wrote:
<l By his expression you will perceive that
after his decease he was not so blessed as
the Church supposed. He was much astonished
at finding himself no longer an Emperor,
and had to make reparation for the cruelty he
had wrought on earth.”
February 12th, 1865. Odon, controlled
by my father, Ernst, drew a very remarkable
picture, which, it was explained to us, was
that of a highly progressed spirit.
Gonobitz, Austria.
  »  
ON THE FOOD OF THE THEOSOPHIST.*
Having, ever since I can remember, taken a
great interest in nursing the sick, and in
health questions generally, I hope it may not
be considered presumptuous my having under¬
taken to give you a short paper on the best
* Read before The Theosophical Society, on the 1st February,
by Mrs. L M .
Feb. 20, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
diet for those Theosophists who are anxious jjj
for the highest development of their souls. Kj
Body and soul are so intimately connected, Kj
that the attempt to divorce them appears to |j|
me to he a cause of many of our troubles. |;|
The Church too much considers the soul only, jsj
and too often treats the body as if it were an Kj
encumbrance. The effect of this treatment is I?!
painfully evident on reading the lives of the j;j
Saints. Our Physicians, again, in only seeing |sj
the body, and ignoring the soul, cannot ever la
he more than half physicians.
Jesus Christ, when found fault with by the m
Pharisees, for saying to the blind man, “Thy |s|
sins be forgiven thee, added, “ Which is easier k|
to say, thy sins he forgiven thee, or to say, ?|
arise and walk ? ” As if to shew that the j;|
body could not he diseased without the soul jsj
being out of order too. So to he a perfect Kj
healer, one ought to he Priest as well as |?j
Physician. The ancients, understanding this, j)i
combined the two offices in one; but then Kj
their Priests were adept-men, who by Rj
long training had become pure, both in body j>|
and soul.
We read that when the Israelites went out js
of Egypt, “ there was not one feeble person Rj
among their tribes; ” so we, when we arise to RJ
go to the Father, to go out of darkness, into j>j
His marvellous light, ought to be pure and Kj
healthy in body, so as to undergo, without ja
undue suffering, the successive births and j/j
deaths of that regeneration, which is the term j)j
the Church has given, to what in old times, jsj
used to be called the “ Mysteries.”
Redemption of the body would appear to be Rj
the distinctive feature of the Christian dispen- jbj
sation, Christ having come to glorify the body; j(j
and nothing short of this ought to satisfy us, Rj
for we see it is possible to have the strength j
of a Samson, the goodness of a Daniel, and Rj
the wisdom of a Solomon, and yet for our jsj‘
senses to betray us.
St. Paul looked for the regeneration of the |?j
body, for he says, “We, who have received !)j
the first fruits of the Spirit, groan within our- j<|
selves, waiting for the adoption, to wit the Rj
redemption of our body; ” not realizing that j>j
it would take time for Christ’s Positive King- m
dom to be shed abroad before his Negative, or Kj
in-drawing Kingdom could be entered. The Rj
Church was to be founded on Peter’s Faith; j)
but, when he is converted, that is, when Faith
becomes merged in Love, as Swedenborg tells Kj
us it was in the ancient Church: then we Rj
may lift up our eyes, and rejoice, for our Rj
redemption draweth nigh.
Awaiting this happy time, which many still
think' is in the dim future, we can at least, by
right living, and right food, endeavour to make
our bodies as pure and as Spiritual as may be.
And these terms need not imply want of force.
The Greeks could not conceive beauty without
strength, and in accordance with this idea,
they always represented the psychic type of
beauty, as we can see by their statues. A
muscular Christian, therefore, ought not to be
such an anomaly after all. The Greeks, as
did Moses, learnt their wisdom in Egypt,
whose wise men taught their disciples to take
care of the body, to eat simple food, but not
to fast, as did their brothers of India, who,
often carried this practice to an extreme.
Many people think, because they have
always been delicate, they can never hope to
be strong; but, physiologists tell us our
bodies are altogether renewed in seven years,
and some say, even in three years. If so, is
it not possible for them to be renewed on im¬
proved lines, if we only give Nature the
means. To do so, she requires first, such food
as will make good blood, nerves, and bones.
Wheat makes all these; therefore, bread is
called the “ staff of life,” but, unfortunately,
our bread is only a broken staff, for it is made
of the inner part only of the grain, and all the
bone making particles are eliminated from it.
If possible, we should make our bread at home,
of good whole wheat flour, and without yeast.
The flour needs only to be mixed with a little
milk or water, and with or without, a very
little butter, rolled out, about half an inch
thick, and baked in a quick oven, which will
cause it to rise quickly, and prevent its being
heavy. Wheat meal makes good porridge,
and is liked by some better than that made
with oatmeal, as it is less heating. All farina¬
ceous foods are healthful and nourishing, either
plainly boiled as porridge, or made into pud¬
dings with milk and eggs. Stewed fruits of
all kinds can be eaten by those, who, at first,
through delicacy or dislike, are prevented from
touching fresh fruit; which, however, after a
time becomes a most necessary part of our
diet. The juices of fresh fruit are water of
Nature’s distilling,—that universal solvent
which is most curative; and in these days,
when there is such difficulty in getting pure
water, the Theosophists’ chief drink, wine being
forbidden,—it is a good thing to be indepen¬
dent of the water companies. Tea and coffee
are allowed, and the latter is a most valuable
addition to our food, when taken in moderation.
It has many curative qualities, and counter-
93
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 20, 1880.
acts some of the bad effects of hard water. !,
The coffee must be pure, without chicory, ||
which neutralizes some of its beneficial action, j
To insure this, it is a good plan to grind the |
freshly roasted beans at home. Coffee is said |
to prevent waste of time, and certainly a cup \\
of caf6 au lait will carry one through a good
deal of work. With the virtues of tea I am
not so well acquainted; it opens the pores of
the skin, and for this reason, may be pleasanter
to take in a feverish state than coffee; but this
fact makes it less nourishing, and it is certainly,
on account of the tannin it contains, a very
bad drink for anyone with a delicate diges¬
tion. All vegetables are good articles of food ;
also beans and lentils, and the latter are most
healthful. But, secondly, Nature requires to
be spiritually fed. Many assert that we only as¬
similate the spiritual part of our food, and, for
this reason a certain bulk is necessary, that is
to say, a pound of meal made into bread, or
porridge, would be better for us, than the same
quantity boiled in water, strained, and taken
as gruel, for thus, some of the constituents are j<
lost; and this would explain why essences,
finely ground flour, and chemical foods are less l<
nourishing than fresh food naturally prepared, K
for we no doubt injure this spiritual essence j<
by preparing our food in too concentrated a ||
form..
We are told by Theosophists, to avoid eat- j<
ing the flesh of animals, not only because of j<
the cruelty involved in our doing so, but also, lj
because it is impossible to escape the animal |<
magnetism of their blood. Moses said, “ The l<
blood, which is the life thereof, thou mayest j>
not eat,,, and the Jews to this day, in obedi- |
ence to this command, have their meat killed K
in a different way from ours, and, I am told, k
marked in a peculiar way, before it is sent to j)
market.
As man is said to represent a triangle, or js
pyramid of three points, two magnetic, in the R
body, and one electrical in the brain, a minia- j>
ture universe, in fact, his food ought, one K
would say, to be magnetic as well as electrical.* k
In grains and fruit, we have the stored-up heat 1/
and light of the sun, which is electricity, and j
in roots, we have the magnetism absorbed from K
the earth. I am aware, severe occultists forbid K
the eating of most vegetables and roots, though j)
they come within the letter and spirit of the
command, given in Genesis, being “ herbs |s
bearing seed,” but I cannot see any reason for k
* With all respect to the authoress of the paper, we believe
that there is not an atom of evidence that electricity or magnetism j'
has any of the purely imaginary powers ascribed to them in
this paragraph.—Ed. of SPiBiruAUST. j'
their being forbidden, except that they help
to strengthen the body, which must be kept
under by those who wish to take the Kingdom
of Heaven by force. But we, who believe that
Jesus Christ came down to call, not the
righteous, but the sinners; not the strong and
healthy, but the poor and the lame, the halt
and the blind, all the negatives in fact, whose
spiritual and bodily conditions would prevent
their being initiated by man, must see how
necessary it is for us to do all in our power to
make our bodies meet to receive the Holy
Spirit, remembering that “no man putteth
new wine into old bottles.” It may be urged,
the only difference between magnetism and
electricity is tension ; f but one note in music
differs from another only in tension, and yet,
what a wonderful science is built up from this
little difference ; they are also said to be con¬
vertible, and are converted one into the other,
and no doubt they are in a healthy organism.
We have all heard of the praises of celery,
as a cure for neuralgia and rheumatism, advan¬
ced last year in the Times, by Mr. Gibson Ward.
Now if you notice people who suffer from
neuralgia, you will see they are generally
those of an electrical or neutral type, whose
magnetism is therefore deficient in quantity or
quality. Celery being grown, covered from
sun or light, in plenty of fresh earth, must
absorb a quantity of magnetism, and its cura¬
tive qualities are, no doubt, owing to this fact.
Mud baths, also given abroad for neuralgia,
are only fresh earth taken from the moor, and
mixed with water, in which the patient lies
for half an hour. Ploughmen are proverbially
healthy, and we must not forget that Jesus
Christ made use of clay to heal the blind man.
A Spaniard thinks nothing of walking 40
miles in a day, although his only food be
bread, onions, and fresh water. I think,
therefore, in this respect, we may venture to
differ from some occultists, particularly when
we see how the tendency of the age is to
develope the brain, at the expense of the body.
There is one more way by which Nature is
nourished, and that is through the skin, which
is not only an organ of excretion, but of ab¬
sorption. Were all the pores of the skin
stopped, we should die, though we might have
many cubic feet of fresh air to breathe through
the lungs. We see, therefore, how very
necessary it is that the skin should be kept
in good order. A Turkish bath once or twice
a week, is much to be recommended, also to
f This is not a fact,—Ed.
94
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 20, 1880.
bathe the whole body in warm water with Kj
soap, before retiring for the night, for we must ]<j
not forget that the spiritual day begins at mid- |?j
night, and all the ceremonies of initiation took j>|
place at night; and thus our bedroom ought K
to be a quiet sanctuary, free from all the dis- Kj
tracting influences of the day, and where we k
can derive the full benefit of the spiritual j;j
help giyen us during the hours of sleep. A |S|
cold or tepid sponge bath in the morning, Kj
quickly taken with plenty of friction after, is j?j
most healthful and refreshing, and if our j;j
clothes be loose, and not too heavy, this will jsj
allow the free passage of air to our skins.
In conclusion, it may perhaps be well to give m
you my own experience as to diet, for it is j)j
now nearly five years since I gave up eating j>j
meat, on purely hygienic grounds, through Rj
reading some works by Dr. Nichols on the U\
subject, never having until then met a vege- j>j
tarian, and knowing nothing of occultism. I jsj
believe that one is better morally, mentally, jsj
and physically, for a simple diet makes life j
easier in many ways, and everything that m
helps us forward on the road to purity and jsj
simplicity ought to be valued by us, for we jsj
are told, unless we become like little children, j>j
we cannot see the Kingdom of God.
We should eat our food with thankfulness, |)|
and practice continual self-denials.
Alcohols are antagonistic to true spiritual j
development, and salt and condiments not j
only pamper the appetite, but increase the j
thirst and irritability of the system.
Jesus, when he sent his disciples abroad, to \l\
preach his doctrines, and to heal the sick, said, !
‘‘ Into whatsoever house ye enter, eat such I
things as are set before you,” and in another jcj
place, he says, u not (so much) that which j
entereth into the body defiles the man.” If j)
so, no hard and fast rule of diet, except |
temperance, can be laid down for the Theoso- jq
phist, especially as climate and constitutional jq
characteristics must always modify our practice. j;j
At the same time, Jesus also on one occasion, js|
when his disciples could not cast out a power- k
fnl demon, said “ This kind goeth not out, jq
except after (much) prayer and fasting,” thus jSj
asserting as a fact, that for the highest jsj
spiritual powers, fasting as well prayer are Kj
necessary, and we know that he fasted forty j?j
days before he entered on his miraculous j>!
works. jsj
We know, also, that it was after many j<!
fastings that the Saints obtained their gifts |?|
of prophecy and healing.
The true Theosophist, therefore, must not jsj
only be temperate in all things, but he must
experiment in fastings, and yet he must see
that he does this with wisdom and knowledge.
A THEORY OF SIN.
The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher gives the
following views of Sin.
u I have a profound conviction, not merely
of universal sinfulness, but that it is founded
on the very divine method of human life, and
that sin is fundamental with the structure of
the globe. I reject, of course I reject, the theolo¬
gian’s teachings as to the imputation of Adam’s
transgression to his posterity. I believe that
men manufacture their own sin and that it
does not come down as a heirloom from their
ancestors. That there is a connection between
ancestral sin and onrs that does run for two or
three generations, I admit, and to a limited
extent this heredity is a fact to be recognised.
But that the whole vast population of this
globe has had divided up among all men and
women a dividend of Adam’s original sin, let
those believe who can j not I. I believe that
the whole race sinned, and do still, on their
own account, and not on account of any push
that is given them. I reject the theories of
imputed sin, but I recognise the universal fact
that the spirit of man is weak, and that the
flesh of man is strong, and that this is univer¬
sal and that it places each individual at an im¬
mense distance from ideal excellence of a per¬
fect manhood by obedience to the law, and
that the human race never gave but one instance,
and that our Master, Jesus, who obeyed the laws
of God as they are in his body, as they are in
the physical globe around him, as they are em¬
bodied in society, as they are made known in
the lives of heroic men and in the sacred re¬
cords. Not a single individual of the whole
human race ever came up sinlessly except
Christ.”
Mrs. Hardinge-Brwten. —Mrs. Emma Hardioge-
Britten had a very boisterous passage from Australia
to San Francisco. The ship was “ hove to ” for thirty-
one hours during a terrific gale from east to south-east,
with a tremendous sea from north-east. On December
23rd Jthe vessel arrived off the harbour of Honolulu, but
on account of the gale could not make the Harbour;
the pilot got on board with great difficulty, and owing
to the loss of the pilot boat he was brought on to San
Francisco. Mrs. Britten intends to revisit England
before long.
Mrs. Woodforde has changed her residence to 4,
Keppel Street, Russell Square, and Mr. D. Younger,
the mesmerist, has changed his to Moscow House,
corner of Hereford Road, Bayswater.
Feb. 20, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
95
fcrajjtfttbwf.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned; copies
should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.']
Cabinet Seances. |Si
Sib,—I was extremely pleased to read in The Kj
Spiritualist that so many people disapprove of the use of j)j
cabinets at seances, and I wish very much that all those Kj
who do disapprove of it would express their opinions ISj
too, and unite their efforts to put a stop to cabinet i)!
seances. Kj
I know by experience that cabinet seances only do j)j
harm. The number of Mediums might decrease, but jcj
Spiritualism would be all the richer for the loss.
I read that others had, in a private manner, com- i)j
municated their opinions to you on the subject, and I j(i
now do the same, hoping most sincerely that some Ki
step will be taken to form circles where cabinets will j)i
never be used. Spiritualism has undoubtedly lost a Ki
great many adherents through cabinet seances, and :)j
through the same course, I myself have been for a if!
moment on the point of giving it all up in disgust.
I take the deepest interest in the great subject, and |)j
am sorry, both for the sake of the movement and of j(i
my own feelings, that I cannot subscribe myself by a h i
greater name than,
Only a Governess.
Southgate, Dec. 5th, 1879.
Mr. J. A. Campbell’s Letters.
Sir,—I shall be glad if those who have written to K ;
Mr. Blount saying that they wish to subscribe for my j
letters, will now send what they think right to him, in i(i
the form of P.O.O.’s (on the Cambridge office) or i
postage stamps.
The number of copies in every case will be, of course, j(j
proportional to the subscription.
I hope to issue the first Letter shortly after the com- i^|
pletion of the list; it will be followed by the others at iSj
regular intervals, either monthly or quarterly as we i)i
have funds to pay the printer. A regular price of one j<j
shilling will be charged for each Number, which will iSI
neither be raised nor diminished as long as I have con-
trol over the sale of them. In order to keep altogether !\j
free from private feeling in this matter, I have not even jSj
asked Mr. Blount to tell me the names of the sub- jg
scribers.
The friends I address are those who sympathise with i)i
the objects stated in my last letter, who can trust me Kj
to speak only what I hww and not what I think or !)j
imagine, who will help me with their knowledge when j)j
mine is deficient, and with their counsel when they Kj
know better than I, who will endeavour with me in a j>j
definite and resolute way to do good work, with every jcj
power and knowledge they possess, be true to their con- Kj
victions in the face of opposition, shun doubtful and j)j
destructive things, and seek the unphenomenal and jcj
eternal essence, rather than the apparent and temporal jSj
shadow, as the groundwork of their philosophy.
J. A. Campbell. Ki
Jplcr
Onob a Sceptic. Your letter begins with a mis-quotation, j?
Please make it accurate.
0ttrg.
REST.
Far from the madding crowd, the noisy throng,
When I am dead let my tired body lie,
Far from the city’s never-ceasing cry;
I could not here have rest, for which I long.
I am aweary, struggling with life’s waves,
Like some lost sea-bird in the stormy blast;
Seeing no hope around but death at last
Amid the turbid breakers which it braves.
After life's fitful fever, when my day
Is done, and all great yearnings are at rest,
These stormy passions dead within my breast,
Let me sleep deep and long wrapped round in clay.
Where in the solemn silence I could lie,
And through the coming ages calmly rest
With cold hands crossed athwart this aching breast,
And face upturned towards the changing sky.
But I would fain lie down where I could feel
The sunlight and the shadow of the springs,
Like the slow passing of an angel’s wings,
At morning and at evening o’er me steal;
Where I could feel the blossoms growing fair,
And hear again the sweet songs of the birds,
Like human souls that longed for human words,
To tell their gladsome stories to the air ;
Where I could hear the weird-voiced autumn breeze
At night through all the lonely wild woods call;
And list the sodden sound of rain-drops fall,
On dead leaves lying ’neath the bare-brown trees;
Where I could often hear your light foot-fall,
And feel the troubled throbbings of your breast,
And in the grass above your warm lips prest,
This more than all, dear friend, far more than all.
Ernest Wilding.
From St. Luke, Feb. 7th, 1880.
Precept and Example.—A missionary in the South
Seas having created a strong impression on a chief,
and convinced him that he and his people were miser¬
able sinners, at the same time describing the Atonement
of Christ, the chief held a council of his warriors, and
it was unanimously decided that hell-fire seemed im¬
minent unless immediate action was taken; but they
utterly repudiated the idea that merely believing that
Jesus died to save men would avert the evil decree.
In their simple logic it seemed natural that if God’s
wrath had on one occasion been averted by the
sacrifice of a good and holy being, their best plan was
to offer the most sacred being they knew of, in the
hope that it would prove acceptable in their case. The
missionary consequently was invited to permit himself
to be crucified; but, strange to say, the man of God did
not see the force of the argument when brought so near
home, and declined. Another meeting was held, at
which it was resolved that although it was a pity that
the missionary did not follow Christ’s example and offer
himself voluntarily, the next best thing was to crucify
him whether or not, with the addendum that if after
he was dead they ate him it would be an effectual way
of partaking of the Holy Communion ; and it was only
by a discreditable ruse the missionary escaped.—
Harbinger of Light. {Melbourne).
96
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 20, 1880.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Hy the late Wm.'Geeqory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Efifeots Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTEB. II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV :—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes —
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Imrovision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, Sc., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
■ all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VTII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible ot Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IXAction of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—Physiological, Therapeutical, Ac.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—^Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylio Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Oiairvoyanee—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XT:—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—^Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmenc Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep-
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases : Sir J. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XTV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—^Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—^Predictions.
CHAPTER XVICurative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out-
1)1 lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail-
1)1 ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth,
pi The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
P! Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
1(1 investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
i (I professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
j) i true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
!)j were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
!)i presence of mediums without being touched.
1)1 Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
i) j Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
Pj thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
j{j house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
!(j Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zbllner, and a great number of intelligent
j (! professional men have done the same.
>1
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
i\| Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
i)j forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
I); stranger to the family present.
;)I The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
Pi science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
Pi untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
i (j private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
j(j by any member of the family. At the present time there are
is j only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
i)| phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
j >i tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
Pi be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
P i the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
' P| protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
Pi the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
j which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
■ j duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know-
i ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
| new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc-
! tions, obtains the phenomena :—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup-
i tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle,
j 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
H) the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufiBcient
! to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance.' Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
j but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
; 4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
| general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
[ should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
j feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
I 6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
i to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean '• Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
1 “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
Hj If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message P ” Should
| three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class of
I) ! messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
I): usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
j) objective phenomena.' After the manifestations are obtained,
j /1 the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
l( j to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
K j or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
|)| tmdeniable proof.
I) j 8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances because
|)! no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters,
i ?! A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
I (| mesmeric influences.
: (I Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
!<; not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
i); week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
pi stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Feb; 20, 1880,
in
THE
SPIRITUALIST.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 8s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. 'White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of tinner*, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers. Ho. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pncisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
FALSE LIGHTS and D ark spots
in Spiritualism, by Christian Reimers. One
Shilling.
K. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of if ill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at sSances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
Researches in the phe¬
nomena OF SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 5s. The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-
street, London, W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND YARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for l£d; or six copies post free for 6d.
R
APHAEL’S PROPHETIC mes¬
senger and ephemeris for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
‘‘ Raphael’s ” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and j udge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa¬
tion of spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances. See., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, daily. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PHARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ S. C., care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.   
rrHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.C,
Price 3s, 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE YEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, give>
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O! Beautiful Whi'e Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. Y. Tappan-
liichtnond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Hivher Life.
Given through the trance-medium ship of T. L. Harris
1Y.—Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
Y.—The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. Y. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Oloisterham: Mr. Peter Peck craft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—‘‘Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
0. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compare
tivo Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship oi
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Eper
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By th(
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthingtoi
(Emiesfallcn).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation t<
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among 1h
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Pertv, Prefer so
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psych:
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harr:
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. B
Alex. Colder.
XTiT-—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XT.TIT.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy i
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougu
Gregory.
XLlV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallac
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Blanch Office, 3
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8\.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Acadonii.
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin t;
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ jlesmeris
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the M ilan Society i
the Promotion of Science, Arts and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, £;
Museum-street, London, W.Ci
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kinzdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
TDEVUE 8PIRITE, Journal d’etudes
JLli psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyms, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-(jffice orders payable to
Leymarie,
Just Published. Price 5s. 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modem Thought verses Modern Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V:—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VIIThe Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modern Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O's made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 124, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C,
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by tne wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding npon himself to‘‘drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation’ will be
deluged with useful information, and such-a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the Knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con¬
sequently irreligious age.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb, 20, 1880.
Accidental Indigestion
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
USE
ENO S FRUITSALT
Erery Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health¬
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Da. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
QTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
Q AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO'S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilicrus headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
END’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injudous effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de la Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. He is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, aud for the future shall never be without it
in the house.”—M. Beral.
END’S FRUIT SALT.— “After suf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ SUCCESS IN LIFE.”—Anewin-
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitation's are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CA UTION.—Examine each, bottle and see the capsule is
marked “ENO'S FRUIT SALT.” Without,you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcham, London, S.E.
Irije Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
OW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
OW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al Sbaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief ot the College of Howling Der¬
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the Market Gardener. —11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12 Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. ‘‘Poor
Old Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29 The July Bug.—30, The Con¬
verted Carman.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
February, 1880.] [Price Sixp?nce.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
A Monthly Magazine.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says. —‘ ‘Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance Will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
arc pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
‘‘Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Hamson (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds niquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account oi
how be went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE
Given through the inspirational mediumsh-p o
Thomas Lake Harris. These poems, given while Mi
Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literur.
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 3?
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price fid.; post free 7^d.; cloth.
npHE PR0BABLE8EFFE0TS of
JL SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OI
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr
G. F. Green.
Thesk Essays won the First and Second Goi.d
Mecai.s of the British National Association oi
Sft ritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
contents.
Spiritualism in some of its Religious Aspects; A
Comparison and a Contrast: M.A. (Oxon)—Glimpses
of Spirituilism in the past: J. 8. Farmer—Spiritual¬
istic Positivism: Dr. Maurice Davies—Culture and
Faith: M.A. (Oxon)—Dream Concerning the “ Dollar
Wrack: ” A. M. H. Watts—A *‘Mission” in Tyrol: A
M. H. W.—The Story of a Dream—Extemporaneous
Sermons by Thomas L. Harris: A. M.—Universal
Restitution: J. W. F.—Notes and Gleanings: The
True Results of Spiritualism; Clear Seeing of
Women; Power of Mind on Mind ; An Impressive
Case ; Victor Hugo on Spiritualism.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW: Hay Nisbet & Co., 52, Ropework-lane
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed bv the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
Opinion op the Press.
‘‘As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall notnow enter. We
will only say that his descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
CONTENTS.
The Materialisation of Spirit  85
The Spiritual Trials of a Medium   85
M. Camille Flammarion on Mr. Crookes’ New Dis¬
coveries in Physics   87
Possession and Exorcism in the Catholic Church... 89
Spontaneous Psychological Phenomena. By Eliza
Boucher   90
My Mediumsbip. By the Baroness Adelma Von
Vay.     :    90
On the Food of the HieoSophist  :  9t
A Theory of Sin 94-
Correspondence :—Cabinet Seances ....' 95’
Mr J. A. Campbell’s Letters... 95.
Poetry:—Rest ;   95
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at'
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,'
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by Hi. W.’
■ Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
