Registered as a Newspaper.
otf f^YdSoiKOGUd&i^
Jlcfosp^cr ttfmurtrfr toit| SprituHlism m §rtat gritam.
No. 361. (VoL. XV.—No. 4.) LONDON l FRIDA-Y, JULY 2o, 18/9. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
SANITAS, THE HEALTH GIVER;
Or, the Pine Forest at Home.
SANITAS IS SOLD IN FLUID, POWDER AND SOAPS.
SANITAS FLUID, Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d. in Bottles. By the Gallon at 20s., and 5s. It is the best fluid disinfectant, preventative of
contagion, and preservative of Meat, Fish, &c. Applied to the Bath, it improves the health by purifying the tissues and pores of the
skin, giving natural beauty and colour to the complexion.
SANITAS TOILET POWDER in Is. Boxes is far superior to any of the so-called Violet Powders ; it is perfectly free from all
mineral and poisonous ingredients; improves the complexion, and softens the skin.
SANITAS TOILET SOAP is a beautiful transparent soap, containing a large percentage of Sanitas. It effectually softens and
improves the skin, and gives natural health and colour to the complexion.
SANITAS HOUSEHOLD SOAPS, sold in 6d. and Id. Bars, is excellently suited for cleaning and disinfection, whitens and
purifies linen goods.
TOILET SANITAS FLUID, in Is., and 2s. 6d. Bottles, is a beautifully perfumed Fluid, having all the properties Of the ordinary
Sanitas in a more agreeable and fragrant form. Specially adapted as a mouth wash, and for spraying rooms, use in finger glasses, &c.
SANITAS DISINFECTING POWDER.
SANITAS TOOTH POWDER, and the several productions of the Company, to be had at the
^smi H Company’s -A.g'enoy,
4, MILDMAY GROVE, HIGHBURY, LONDON, N.
CAUTION.-—All Articles hear the Company's Trade Mark and Seal, without which none are genuine^
Chemists and the Trade Supplied.
Now Ready,
The THIRD EDITION of VoU I of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
MECHANISM OF MAN.
Price 10s. 6d. •
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Vol. II., completing the work, and treating of “ The Mechanism in Action,*,
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and CO., Paternoster-row.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAYING.
Pure, Fragrant, and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine) that
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is, an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by PEARS, 9l, Great Russell-street, London.
JAMES MALTBT, ~
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majestys Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qnality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PAKK, LONDON, N.W.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 25, 1879,
ii
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, JV.
President-*-Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of. man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
' ALLAN KARDEG (Blackwell’s Translations). .
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. fid. TrebneR An© Go,, Londoji,,. '
Just Published.
SPIRIT - IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.*
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234, Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : its Place and Function
—Religion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism—The Philosophy of Inspiration and
Revelation—Christianity : its Place and Human Elements.
London: Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. Gd., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges,
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
DR. NICHOLS’ FOOD O.F HEALTH.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &c.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &c.
MR. C. R. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till, 5. Oh Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends,
N.B.—Mr. "Williams’s temporary address during
alterations in the above premises is 13, Milman-street,
W.O. (corner of new Ormond-street).
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
RECEIVES DAILY AT
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON,
Close to Oowcr-street Station.
^Lectures every Sunday evening at Steinway Hall,
Lower Seymour-street, at 7 o’clock precisely. Ad¬
mission Free.
MR. F. +OMERIN,
v Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered Constitutions can he built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health being restored,
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influenee thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. I do
not confine myself to specialities, but treat all diseases
without medicine whatever. Private circles attended
for developing any form of mediumship; and mes¬
merism or healing taught at patients’ own residence, or
by appointment in Bloomsbury-square. Address all
letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
MRS. LOUIE M. LOWE,
23, UPPER BAKER STREET, LONDON.
At home from two till five o’clock daily, except Sundays
MDLLE. HUET, good. Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladles and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from I p.m. to 5 p.m.
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
v./ DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Magnetised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museunustf London, W.C.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIR VOYANTE and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair ; sex and
age required. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism,
Specialities. At home from 12 till 5 p.m. Patients
treated at their homes when desired. 99, Park-street,
Grosvenor-square, London, W.
Hackney spiritual evidence
SOCIETY, 6, Field-view-terrace, London-flelds,
E., near Blackstone-road Members’ seance, Mondays,
8 p.m. Private materialisation stance, Tuesdays, 8 p.m
Miss Barnes, mesmeric sensitive, who obtains good
rappings, also, as conditions favour, lights, voices,
writing, and other psychical phenomena, gives experi¬
mental stances every Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,
and Saturday, 8.15 p.m., Sixpence. Private stance
any time, prior arrangement, 5s. Mesmerism taught
personally or by letter, 5s. Sundays, 6.30 p.m., Mes¬
meric Healing; 7, Devotional Meeting; 8, S^mce.—Six¬
pence; inclusive. C. R. WILLIAMS, Sec.
TIOLKE STONE .—Comfortable Lodg-
X) ings on moderate terms. References to Spirit¬
ualists can be given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-
terrace, Folkestone.
xil SctoD$ awd Ittos txi Sp:it(it^aU$m»
No. 36i,—Voj-ujviE fifteen; Number fou^,
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 25tli, 1879.
“THE SPIKITUAL1ST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
ftlBLfsHEl) Weekly. Price TwopeSce,
10s. lOdi per anmitn Post Free Within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
83, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladids and Gdntlemen have published their names in connection
With their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Russia, Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Right Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.
C. O. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London-
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I,
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Pardon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein).
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.R S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.R.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., MA.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. 0. Luxmore, Esq, J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Royal,Patis; 2,Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Rome; British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Rue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Russeli-street-South, Mel¬
bourne; Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of TAght Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia ; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington. .
Advert'sing terms on application.
rnHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
SPIRITUALISM AND RELIGION.
One result of the recent utterances of Madame de
Steiger, to the effect that there is at present no religion
in the civilised world which will incite men to noble
deeds, to marching to the axe, the block, or the stake,
for the sake of that which they believe to be true, has been
to bring us in a few letters from sectarians, each setting
forth that his particular system has the very truth in its
midst. But it is evident that in these columns the claims
of the various sects cannot be considered. The readers
know already what are the claims to Divine authority of
English Ecclesiastics, Roman Catholics, Calvinists, Par¬
ticular Baptists, Infidels, and Jews. These, in their own
periodicals, can set forth their claims to divine authority,
and do Spiritualism good service by therein bringing for¬
ward our facts, in support of their own theological ideas, for
without our facts Materialism will gradually sweep the
whole of them from the face of the earth. Men, nowa¬
days, will not go to the prison or the stake for the sake
of mistranslated books of doubtful authorship, full of
errors as to matters-of-fact; neither will they bow down
to the priestly authority of fallible man. Some women,
and many-children and mesmeric sensitives, will so do to
the end of the chapter, but in this country, at least, the
strong voice of educated public opinion, with its ma¬
chinery, the press, exercises a balance of power
strongly in the opposite direction, tending to save the
weak from their sins, and from dragging society back
to that standpoint in which ecclesiastics would once
again be able to swim in such oceans of innocent blood
as they once shed or boiled all over Christendom and in
foreign lands, in the name of the God their actions blas¬
phemed. They said they acted by His authority.
In those semi-savage times, doubtless, men in power
were not much worse and not much better than those in
subserviency. “Bloody Mary” roasted Protestants, as
our school-books teach us. “ Bloody Elizabeth ” roasted
Roman Catholics, as our school-books do not teach us,
because the dominant ecclesiastical power has printed for
our Sunday schools what it is convenient to itself we
should know. It would not do to tell in schools, how
the Bishop of Norwich and other authorities roasted
Roman Catholics in the days of Good Queen Bess. Such
inconvenient truths are for students only, and not for the
common people.
In the theological musical scale we have the Catholics
at the one end, with all the poetry and romance connected
with their ritual and with the great historical associations
of their religion, tied to mummeries in which it is difficult
to imagine an intellectual man to take part. If the
President of the Royal Society were to be seen in eccle¬
siastical millinery, bowing first to the right and then to
the left, then shifting a peculiarly-shaped hat into par¬
ticular positions at particular times, and sniffing while
nice little boys swung incense pots before him, few
persons would blame the Royal Society if it searched for
a new President with less emotion and more logic.
Down in the musical scale, down through all the grada¬
tions, from Catholicism, with its full play to the emotions,
down through High Church, Broad Church, Low Church,
38
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 25r 1879.
down through all the dissenting denominations to the
Unitarians, and at last we come to the other extreme, the
Atheistic Bradlaughites, with plenty of sound common
sense, useful in breaking up superstition, but destitute of
poetry, ideality, or capability of self-sacrifice unless with
the hope of materialistic reward.
All these elements of the theological scale are useful in
their sphere, and together produce the general result we
find in the world, which outcome must be well-pleasing
to the Almighty, otherwise He would not have produced
such an effect. In each element of the scale good and evil
are intermixed; they are in strong and intimately allied
contrast at the two extremities, whilst in the middle there
is an uninteresting neutrality.
But throughout the whole range of this theological
scale, Materialism has for some generations been gaining
an undue influence, because theologians have been sepa¬
rating themselves from facts and from truths which every
man can verify for himself in his own home. Spiritualism
brings these facts to the front, hence is a most powerful
ally to all the religious sects who are otherwise striving
unsuccessfully not to sacrifice ideality on the shrine of an
encroaching gross and grovelling Materialism.
Any real foundation possessed by the various sects rests
chiefly upon traditions, and sometimes accurate records of
bygone Spiritualistic mental and physical phenomena.
The revival of these will put new life into the churches,
thereby meeting the requirements of the many, but a
deeper philosophy will have to be evolved from the facts
by research to meet the requirements of the few. We
think that the philosophy of Berkeley, welded to the phe¬
nomena of Spiritualism, will give a strong spiritual position
which deserves serious examination.
At all events, we cannot print letters from any sec¬
tarian, to the effect that his particular system contains all
religious truth. If such writers will send their asser¬
tions to their own journals, the readers will be delighted
with their defence of knotty points of abstruse theological
doctrine, and at the same time learn that Spiritualism is
at hand to save their denomination from drowning, and
that it is the only possible defence from the Materialism
now in the ascendant everywhere. Spiritualism will
bring other than devotees to the knowledge that there is
another and a better world, that the conditions of that
world are spiritual, and so diverse from ours that men
must enter the next life before they can conceive its nature
and its glories, and that every man and every woman
must work for the position individually attained therein.
When the time comes for men to know beyond question
that life on earth is but a small and unimportant part of their
existence, it may be that once again will they live not
in inglorious ease, with low motives and small aims,
but be ready to go forth to battle and to die for the
sake of that which they believe to be true, and to
prefer, were it possible, to sleep in stone upon their
altar tombs with their hands uplifted to heaven, rather
than to live on in subserviency to anything which
would tarnish a noble soul in the eyes of its Maker.
Something is needed now-a-days to incite men to go
forth, as in the days of old, with their lives in their
hands, to do battle for that which is right.
Newcastle.—Two correspondents in the Newcastle district,
who append what purport to be their names and addresses to
their communications, state that sealed letters they had given to
a medium to read by clairvoyance were tampered with by being
opened and cunningly reclosed. As we do not know the corre¬
spondents who make these serious statements, and they have not
forwarded us letters of introduction, they had better officially
inform the Newcastle Spiritual Evidence Society of the alleged
circumstances, those in the locality being best able to understand
the merits of the case.
j WHO WROTE SHAKESPEARE’S PLAYS ?
>! BY THE REV. W. R. TOMLINSON.
In a letter to the Spiritualist of June 20th, which refers
)j to the publication of the collected folio of the plays of
|)| Shakespeare, we find it asserted that amany appeared
j(j never heard of before, and this seven years after Shake-
|I speare’s death.” I presume that this alludes to ShaJce-
| speare's Works by Heminge and Condett. If so, we have
- | m reason to think that the publication was a labour of love ;
j)j and that the plays were not published without the best
! j evidence, I may say knowledge, of their authenticity.
|)| And if “ many appeared never heard of before,” we can-
f«S not but marvel at the dishonesty, for Heminge and
hi Oondell, of all people in the world, were the most likely
;)| to be well advised and acquainted with their subject,—
!(i what were and what were not Shakespeare’s writings : as
|j| they say, in their preface, “It had been, we confesse,
|)j worthy to have been wished, that the author himself had
Kj lived to have set forth and overseene his own writings ;
j)j but since it has been ordained otherwise, and he by death
| | departed from that right, we pray you doe not envy his
i}| friends the office of their care and paine to have collected
j}j and published them.” And who were these “friends”
jU who collected Shakespeare’s works? None other than
those who were best able to pronounce upon their genuine-
Kj ness and identity. These “friends” were his brother
j|| players. Shakespeare does not seem to have had many
||1 sincere friends among the educated wits of that time,
i (| These friends and brother players were the very men whom
j Ben Jonson scornfully jeered at, because they said “that
|u Shakespeare, in writing (whatsoever he penned), he never
l)i blotted out a line.” And then he contemptuously retorted,
])] “ Would he had blotted a thousand ! ”
i\j In the preface to Beaumont and Fletcher's Works, pub-
|)| lished in 1778, we find the following :—“Shakespeare’s
HI supposed carelessness concerning the fate of his pieces
|)| after they had been represented is not so very sin-
| ] gular; many of the plays of Beaumont and Fletcher
|)| also having been inaccurately printed from stolen copies
j:)j during the lives of the authors, and the remainder
||| collected some years after their deaths, like the works
|) | of Shakespeare by the players."
And now, with regard to Sir Tobie Matthew’s
|)| postscript to Lord Bacon :—“P.S. The most prodigious
i>| wit that ever I knew of any nation, and of this side
|<| of the sea, is of your lordship’s name, though he be
l|| known by another.”
Now, why should this apply to Shakespeare ? Cer-
I); tainly, as I have shown, Ben Jonson would not have
j)| given that high title to Shakespeare of “ the most pro-
!( digious wit,” when he did not even name him among
i'r the wits of his time. And in this opinion, in those
|| days, Jonson was far from singular j for though Shake-
| speare shone brightly at first, when he stood alone, his
I star lost its brightness when his highly-educated imitators
arose; and since then the true judgment on Shakespeare
j has been a growth. In the above-named Preface to Beau-
| mont and Fletcher's Works, we find that general opinion
| gave the palm to these two writers over Shakespeare;
| and long before Shakespeare had been dead seven years,
j his more distant though sublime star was obscured by
j these nearer satellites; and whatever Shakespeare had
been in the time of Queen Elizabeth, yet even before the
time oftShakespeare’s death, these highly educated younger
men had quite surpassed their great master in the
| estimation of their contemporaries, if not in tragedy, at
any rate in comedy and “ wit.” The above-named
Preface tells us :—“ In comedy, the critics of their own
. days, and those immediately succeeding, gave Beaumont
and Fletcher the preference to Shakespeare, although the
1 glow award of time has at length justly decreed the
July 25, 187 9.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
89
superior excellence of the glorious father of our drama
beyond all further appeal.” And, again, “ On the
stage, indeed, our authors formerly took the lead,
Dryden having informed us that in his day two of their
plays were performed to one of Shakespeare’s.”
And what does Dryden, again, say in his Essays
of Dramatic Poetry, page 19, in the first volume of
the folio edition of his writings ? He says, “ Beau¬
mont and Fletcher had, with the advantage of Shake¬
speare’s wit, which was their precedent, great
natural gifts, improved by study. . . . Their plots were
generally more regular than Shakespeare’s, especially
those that were made before Beaumont’s death. And
they understood and imitated the conversation of gentle¬
men much better, whose quickness of wit in repartee no
poet can ever paint as they have done.” Beaumont and
Fletcher were, like Jonson, highly educated, and both
were graduates of Cambridge. Beaumont was the son of
a judge, and was always a hard student of the classics;
and Fletcher was a son of the Bishop of London, and a
witty man of the world. Langbraine, in his Account of the
Dramatic Poets published in 1691, says, “ Mr. Fletcher’s
wit was equal to Mr. Beaumont’s judgment.” Ben
Jonson, the Poet Laureate, “ while Beaumont lived,
submitted all his writings to his censure,” and it is thus
ho writes of him:—
How I do love thee, Beaumont, and thy muse
That unto me dost such religion use!
How I do fear myself, that am not worth
The least indulgent thought thy pen drops forth!
What a contrast this to the way Jonson speaks of
Shakespeare ? And if the critics of- those days gave the
palm to Jonson, Beaumont, and Fletcher over Shake¬
speare, what are we to think of the opinion of these
three educated, witty men themselves, when talking over
the wild woolstapler, with his little Latin and no
Greek.” We remember Jonson’s argument with Sir John
Suckling on his “ignorance of the ancients.” We have
no reason to believe that Sir Tobie Matthew was so much
before his age as to have had a higher appreciation of Shake¬
speare’s wit than other critics in those days; and this
takes away all value from the assumption that Sir Tobie
thought this unnamed wit must be necessarily Shake¬
speare. Indeed, the evidence of the general opinion in
those days almost amounts to a certainty that he did not
think so.
If it had been a question of sublime flight, instead of
mere wit, it might have been quite another thing.
Besides, when was this postscript written ? It was
written seven years after Shakespeare’s death. And this
nameless wit, from Sir Tobie’s words, appears to have
been living at the time the postscript was written, for it
is written in the present tense—“ The most prodigious
wit, &c., is of your lordship’s name, though he be known
by another.” Who this living wit was in about a.d. 1623
I do not presume to guess. He might have been the
Poet Laureate. He could hardly have been Beaumont,
who died in 1615, under thirty years of age ; but he might
well have been Fletcher, for he, not Shakespeare, was the
acknowledged wit of that day ; and Fletcher only died a
year before Bacon himself, at the comparatively early age
of forty-nine years. What, again, says Langbraine of
Fletcher ?—No man even understood or drew the pas¬
sions more lively than he; and his witty raillery was
so dressed, that it rather pleased than disgusted the modest
part of his audience.” While Dryden, in his Essay of
Dramatic Poetry, already quoted, p. 17, in a comparison of
the French and English comedy, says, “As for comedy,
repartee is one of its chief graces. The greatest pleasure
of an audience is a chase of wit kept up on both sides,
and swiftly managed; and this our forefathers (if not we)
have had in Fletcher’s plays to a much higher degree of
perfection than the French poets can arrive at.”
Sir J. Birkenhead has quaintly told us—
Beaumont died; yet left in legacy
His rules and standard wit (Fletcher) to thee,
Still the same planet, tho’ not filled so soon;
A two-horned crescent then—now one full moon.
But, after all, who would desire to have seen our grand
philosopher, Bacon, competing in the arena with smaller
minds for applause as a leader in comedy, and thus
treading on the borders of farce ? One shrinks at. the
idea of the grand Bacon appearing on such a scene,
though drawn there by friendly hands. Dignity was his
speciality, and his wit and charm of speaking shone
brightest on his own platform. Things are better as they
are. The fact cancels the hypothesis. Who, even,
would desire to believe that our unapproachable dialec¬
tician could have, been that which would have been an
impossibility with such a self-sustained spirit as his, a
medium! under control ? No, no. Every man to his
calling ! It is true that, under the influence of “ celestial
spirits ”—
“ His spirits, by spirits taught to write
Above a mortal pitch ”—
might, like Shakespeare’s, have soared to sublimities that
no mortal unassisted can ever hope to attain. But then
he, too, would probably have been, in that case, amenable
to some “ affable, familiar ghost,” which might some¬
times have “gulled him with intelligence,” perchance
false or hurtful; and he, too, like Shakespeare, might,
alas ! have dabbled his silver wings in the mire, and
written, for instance, something like the Introduction to
the Taming of the Shrew. It is better as things are. Let
us leave our grand philosopher in his dignity; and
honoured, as he is, by the respect of the world, let us do
homage to his own great spirit as its own operator.
VISITORS AT THIRTY-EIGHT GREAT RTJSSELL-STREET.
Sir,—I have read Mr. Massey’s letter with the attention that
his words always deserve; and I am constrained to say that I
never read any words of his with so much regret. It requires
all my antecedent knowledge of his fair and honourable nature to
prevent my drawing inferences from the tone and matter of his
letter, which (knowing him as I do) I am sure would be un¬
founded. As matters stand, I conclude that ignorance of the
real facts has made it possible for Mr. Massey to do the Associa¬
tion a grave wrong, and to write a letter which leaves in my
mind a rankling sense of injustice which it will take much to
obliterate. '
I have no intention whatever of going into the issues raised by
Mr. Massey. I could not do so without reviving matters which
I hoped were dead, and the discussion of which would be, as
distasteful to me as it would be fruitless and unprofitable tc
your readers. Were I to do so, I should be forced to traverse,
with a direct contradiction, some assertions that have been con¬
fidently made, and to explain some facts by reference to events
which you, sir, equally with myself, would wish to leave
unpublished.
It is not my habit to turn my back on a controversy; but in
this case, unless some strong necessity arise. I have said my
final word.
I observe in Mr. Massey’s letter that an expression of mine
has given him pain, so far at least as to cause him to remember
and refer to it. I am sorry that any word of mine , should seem
to him unfair, and I beg permission to withdraw the phrase to
which he takes exception.
.Requesting, I hope for the last time, the insertion of a reply
on this matter in your columns, I am, sir, faithfully yours,
W. Stair ton Moses, M.A»
July 21st, 1879.
40 THE SPIRITUALIST. July 25. 1879.
THE CAREER OF A RELIGIOUS LEADER.
Mr. Trubner lias just favoured us with a copy of a I|
new book by Mr. Edwin Arnold, entitled The Light of j)|
Asia. It is a wonderful specimen of literary ability, full j)j
of deep religious thought—a book calculated to make all j(j
its readers wiser and better. Most of the sacred legends j)j
relating to the life of Prince Gautama, of India, the j)f
founder of Buddhism, are given in verse, so that the K]
reader has presented to him, in readable form, the sup- |)
posed chief events in the life of a man whose teachings ]>|
now govern the lives of about four hundred and seventy |(j
millions of the human race, or more than one-third of j}j
the dwellers on the earth. The story, as told by Mr. |)l
Arnold, who once resided for several years in India, has j\|
a strongly Oriental tone in it, and is quite refreshing for j(i
the novelty of its style. )|
Prince Gautama, or Prince Siddartha, was born on jvj
the borders of Nepaul, about 620 B.C., and died about j<j
543 b.c. at Kusinagara, in Oudh. His father, King
Suddhodana, built a palace for his son, whom he j\j
resolved to train up without knowledge of the presence k|
in the world of sorrow and of death:— |)J
The King commanded that within those walls Ic]
No mention should be made of death or age,
Sorrow, or pain, or sickness. If one drooped H
In the lovely Court—her dark glance dim, her feet \!
Paint in the dance—the guiltless criminal ) j
Passed forth an exile from that Paradise, (j
Lest he should see and suffer at her woe.
Bright-eyed intendants watched to execute )j
Sentence on such as spake of the harsh world \ j
Without, where aches and plagues were, tears and fears, j > j
And wail of mourners, and grim fume of pyres,
'Twas treason if a thread of silver strayed m
In tress of singing-girl or nautch-dancer; |)|
And every dawn the dying rose was plucked, iyi
The dead leaves hid, all evil sights removed: ])i
For said the King, “If he shall pass his youth j(j
Far from such things as move to wistfulness, 1)1
And brooding on the empty eggs of thought,
The shadow of this fate, too vast for man, Kj
May fade, belike, and I shall see him grow I) |
To that great stature of fair sovereignty H j
When he shall rule all lands—if he will rule— !> j
The King of kings and glory of his time.” j)}
Wherefore, around that pleasant prison-house— \\\
Where love was gaoler and delights its bars, m
But far removed from sight—the King bade build K!
A massive wall, and in the wall a gate n
With brazen folding-doors, which but to roll I)
Back on their hinges asked a hundred arms; K
Also the noise of that prodigious gate !)!
Opening, was heard full half a yOjana. m
And inside this another gate he made, m
And yet within another—through the three r. j||
Must one pass if he quit that Pleasure-house.
Three mighty gates there were, bolted and barred,
And over each was set a faithful watch; j\|
■And the King’s order said, “ Suffer no man jj
To pass the gates, though he should be the Prince: |(!
This on your lives—even though it be my son.”
In the midst of this earthly Paradise the Devas, or If
spirits, sang to Siddartha, and told him of the woes of jjl
the outside world, foretelling that he was to be one of i{|
its deliverers. His father at last permitted him on a
few occasions to go beyond the limits of his palace,
and he so grieved over the sorrows of mankind that he
resolved to devote his life to attempts to alleviate them.
The spirits thus helped him to flee by night from his
gorgeous prison :—
Then to the saddle lightly leaping, he
Touched the arched crest, and Kantaka sprang forth
With armed hoofs sparkling on the stones and ring
Of champing' bit; but none did hear that sound,
For that the Suddha Devas, gathering near,
Plucked the red mohra-flowers and strewed them thick
Under his tread, while hands invisible
Muffled the ringing bit and bridle chains.
Moreover, it is written when they came
Upon the pavement near the inner gates,
The Yakshas of the air laid magic cloths
Under the stallion’s feet, so that he went
Softly and still.
But when they reached the gate
Of tripled brass—which hardly fivescore men
Served to unbar and open—lo ! the doors
Rolled back all silently, though one might hear
In daytime two koss off the thunderous roar
Of those grim hinges and unwieldy plates.
Also the middle and the outer gates
Unfolded each their monstrous portals thus
In silence as Siddartha and his steed
Drew near; while underneath their shadow lay,
Silent as dead men, all those chosen guards—
The lance and sword let fall, the shields unbraced,
Captains and soldiers—for there came a wind,
Drowsier than blows o’er Malwa’s fields of sleep,
Before the Prince’s path, which, being breathed,
Lulled every sense aswoon : and so he passed
Free from the palace.
Siddartha travelled hither and thither teaching love,
mercy, and self-sacrifice, with many an anecdote of
which does the book abound. For instance :—
The King stood in his hall of offering,
On either hand the white-robed Brahmans ranged,
Muttered their mantras, feeding still the fire
Which roared upon the midmost altar. There
From scented woods flickered bright tongues of flame,
Hissing and curling as they licked the gifts
Of ghee and spices and the Soma juice,
The joy of Indra. Round about the pile
A slow, thick, scarlet streamlet smoked and ran,
Sucked by the sand, but ever rolling down,
The blood of bleating victims. One such lay,
A spotted goat, long-horned, its head bound back
With munja grass; at its stretched throat the knife
Pressed by a priest, who murmured, “ This, dread gods,
Of many yajnas cometh as the crown
From Bimbasara : take ye joy to see
The spirted blood, and pleasure in the scent
Of rich flesh roasting ’mid the fragrant flames ;
Let the King’s sins be laid upon this goat,
And let the fire consume them burning it,
For now I strike.”
But Buddha softly said,
“ Let him not strike, great King! ” and therewith loosed
The victim’s bonds, none staying him, so great
His presence was. Then, craving leave, he spake
Of life, which all can take but none can give,
Life, which all creatures love and strive to keep,
Wonderful, dear and pleasant unto each,
July 25, 1879.
THE SPIRIT UALIST.
41
Even to the meanest; yea, a boon to all
Where pity is, for pity makes the world
Soft to the weak and noble for the strong.
Unto the dumb lips of his flock he lent
Sad pleading words, showing how man, who prays
For mercy to the gods, is merciless,
Being as god to those; albeit all life
Is linked and kin, and what we slay have given |||
Meek tribute of the milk and wool, and set
Fast trust upon the hands which murder them.
Here is a legend relating to another Buddha :—•
Drought withered all the land : the young rice died
Ere it could hide a quail; in forest glades
A fierce sun sucked the pools ; grasses and herbs
Sickened, and all the woodland creatures fled * i > I
Scattering for sustenance. At such a time,
Between the hot walls of a nullah, stretched j \ j
On naked stones, our Lord spied, as he passed,
A starving tigress. Hunger in her orbs
Glared with green flame ; her dry tongue lolled a span |) j
Beyond the grasping jaws and shrivelled jowl;
Her painted hide hung wrinkled on her ribs,
As when between the rafters sinks a thatch j) i
Rotten with rains; and at the poor lean dugs
Two cubs, whining with famine, tugged and sucked,
Mumbling those milkless teats which rendered nought, j'j
While she, their gaunt dam, licked full motherly i||
The clamorous twins, yielding her flank to them l||
With moaning throat, and love stronger than want,
Softening the first of that wild cry wherewith
She laid her famished muzzle to the sand,
And roared a savage thunder-peal of woe. hi
Seeing which bitter strait, and heeding nought
Save the immense compassion of a Buddh, >y|
Our Lord bethought, “ There is no other way j)j
To help this murderess of the woods but one. ~ Kj
By sunset these will die, having no meat: nl
There is no living heart will pity her.
Bloody with ravin, lean for lack of blood. (j
Lo 1 if I feed her, who shall lose but I, )j
And how can love lose doing of its kind <j
Even to the uttermost ?” So saying, Buddh p
Silently laid aside sandals and staff,
His sacred thread, turban, and cloth, and came \l
Forth from behind the milk-bush on the sand, m
Saying, “ Ho ! mother, here is meat for thee !”
Whereat the perishing beast yelped hoarse and shrill, })]
Sprang from her cubs, and, hurling to the earth \(\
That willing victim, had her feast of him ;
With all the crooked daggers of her claws j) j
Rending his flesh, and all her yellow fangs m
Bathed in his blood: the great cat’s burning breath
Mixed with the last sigh of such fearless love. m
Sidd&rtha was tempted by the powers of evil:— |)j
The ten chief Sins came—Mara’s mighty ones, |||
Angels of evil—Attavada first, i j!
The Sin of Self, who in the Universe [)!
As in a mirror sees her fond face shown,
And crying “I” would have the world say 11,” (j
And all things perish so if she endure. j/j
“ If thou be’st Buddh,” she said, “ let others grope
Lightless; it is enough that thou art Thou |>|
Changelessly; rise and take the bliss of gods m
Who change not, heed not, strive not.” But Buddh m
spake, |)|
“ The right in thee is base, the wrong a curse ; ju
Cheat such as love themselves.” Then came wan Doubt, j j j
He that denies—the mocking Sin—and this
Hissed in the Master’s ear, “ All things are shows,
And vain the knowledge of their vanity; li
Thou dost but chase the shadow of thyself;
Rise and go hence, there is no better way
Than patient scorn, nor any help for man.
Nor any staying of his whirling wheel.”
But quoth our Lord, “ Thou hast no part with me,
False Yisikitcha, subtlest of man’s foes.”
And third came she who gives dark creeds their power,
Sllabbat-paramasa, sorceress.
Draped fair in many lands as lowly Faith,
But ever juggling souls with rites and prayers ;
The keeper of those keys which lock up Hells
And open Heavens. “ Wilt thou dare,” she said,
“ Put by our sacred books, dethrone our gods,
Unpeople all the temples, shaking down
That law which feeds the priests and props the realms ?”
But Buddha answered, “ What thou bidd’st me keep
Is form which passes, but the free Truth stands ;
Get thee unto thy darkness.” Next there drew
Gallantly high a braver Tempter, he,
Kama, the King of passions.
■» # . # # *
The rooted mountains shook, the wild winds howled,
The broken clouds shed from their caverns streams
Of levin-lighted rain ; stars shot from heaven,
The solid earth shuddered as if one laid
Flame to her gaping wounds ; the torn black air
Was full of whistling wings, of screams and yells,
Of evil faces peering, of vast fronts
Terrible and majestic, Lords of Hell
Who from a thousand Limbos led their troops
To tempt the Master.
But Buddh heeded not,
Sitting serene, with perfect virtue walled
As is a stronghold by its gates and ramps;
Also the Sacred Tree—the B6dhi-tree—
Amid that tumult stirred not, but each leaf
Glistened as still as when on moonlit eves
No zephyr spills the glittering gems of dew;
For all this clamour raged outside the shade
Spread by those cloistered stems.
Having overcome all temptations, Siddartha gradually
rose into higher and higher spiritual states, which are
described with a master hand, until he attained the
highest state, Nirvana, when—
So glad the World was—though it wist not why—
That over desolate wastes went swooning songs
Of mirth, the voice of bodiless Prets and Bhuts
Foreseeing Buddh ; and Devas in the air
Cried “ It is finished, finished! ” and the priests
Stood with the wondering people in the streets
Watching those golden splendours flood the sky
And saying “ There hath happed some mighty thing.”
Also in Ran and Jungle grew that day
Friendship amongst the creatures; spotted deer
Browsed fearless where the tigress fed her cubs,
And cheetahs lapped the pool beside the bucks;
Under the eagle’s rock the brown hares scoured
While his fierce beak but preened an idle wing;
The snake sunned all his jewels in the beam
With deadly fangs in sheath; the shrike let pass
The nestling-finch; the emerald halcyons
Sate dreaming while the fishes played beneath,
Nor hawked the merops, though the butterflies—
Crimson and blue and amber—flitted thick
Around his perch ; the Spirit of our Lord
Lay potent upon man and bird and beast.
Even while he mused under that B6dhi-tree,
Glorified with the Conquest gained for all
And lightened by a Light greater than Day’s.
DK. SLADE’S VISIT TO BRITISH COLUMBIA.
To the Editor of 11 The Spiritualist."
' Dear Sir,—Far as we are out of the beaten track of
civilisation in this remote corner of the British Empire,
a few, at least, of the community are endowed with
inquiring minds, and are anxious to “keep the run” of
what is going on in the great world.
Some of us have subscribed a small sum of money to
pay the expenses of Dr. Slade, so as to induce him to
pay us a visit from San Francisco en route from Australia.
We consider that it may be interesting to some of your
readers to know the movements of this celebrated man,
and also to be assured that there are a few earnest
brethren in this little-known locality who watch the
great movement of Spiritualism with avidity and
absorbing interest.
Should anything occur during Dr. Slade’s visit of
sufficient general interest I will supply you with the
items.—I am, dear sir, yours faithfully,
Geo. K. Wilson Brown.
Victoria, British Columbia, July 1st, 1879.
“A MOORISH PRINCESS.”
A clergyman furnishes us with the following extract
from a private letter, just received by him from a
relative who resides in Warrington, Lancashire :—
We have a very wonderful woman now figuring in
Warrington. She has taken up her quarters at the
Lion; she drives in a large open conveyance drawn by
three horses abreast. Behind her, on a higher seat, are
arranged six dark-skinned men, each playing an instrument.
The lady is magnificently dressed and bejewelled. This
remarkable individual has been styled in the local paper
“ A Moorish Princess,” but that is only surmise;
however, she cannot speak any English, and she is
attended by a tall dark man, who interprets her
language to the audience. She performs most wonder¬
ful cures for the common public, who in crowds assemble
on the foreground, where, standing in her carriage, she
performs her cures, extracts teeth, &c., &c. My servant
Jane has just this minute returned from having a tooth
extracted. She says she never felt any pain, and the
tooth which she held in her hand is a large one. The
clever woman is a widow, now 36 years of age ; has had
fourteen children, eleven living; two of her daughters
drove last Saturday to the Lion to see her—“as nice
young ladies as you would wish to see,” so says report.
She has undertaken to cure Dr. Smith of his paralysis,
or forfeit £50. She stays here for a fortnight longer at
least. Frank has gone again to see her wonderful per¬
formances; all the town goes. The crowd is immense
around her. She treats private cases for £1 each at the
Lion. All done in public is free of charge.
  ■».  
M. Alexandre .Aksakov, of St. Petersburg, is travelling in j(
Prance for the benefit of his health. ' }(
Mr. W. Eglinton has been giving seances in Bruges, Ostend, r>
and Brussels during the past fortnight, and will return to England j)
in a day or two. ' . K
This year’s meeting of the British Association for the Advance- |)
ment of Science will begin in Sheffield on the 20th August, under i)
the presidency of Dr. Allman, who once, as published in these !(
pages at the time, gave a certain amount of attention to Spirit- j \
ualism by attendance at some of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s K
seances, which then were chiefly devoted to cabinet manifestations, i >
Mr. Crookes will deliver one of the evening lectures to the Asso- j)
ciation. Mrs. Gregory intends to be present at the Sheffield K
meeting. “
j MATERIALISATION PHENOMENA UNDER TEST
CONDITIONS.
/ BY T. P. BARKAS, F.G.S.
( For the last two and a half years I have not been
present at more than half-a-dozen stances, my numerous
rf engagements in other departments of inquiry rendering
attendance at stances difficult. I have for twenty-five
I years investigated the phenomena, and am quite satisfied
| as to their reality and genuineness, and am therefore
less disposed to make sacrifices of time in order to
I attend stances for the development of phenomena similar
to those I have previously witnessed.
On Thursday evening last, July 17th, I attended a
! mstance at Weirs-court, Newcastle-on-Tyne, for the purpose
V of accompanying two personal friends, who for the first
time had arranged to be present at a stance. One of
\ i those friends is a minister of religion, and the other is a
W- scientific Government inspector. Both of them, there-
(| fore, are well-informed men, and, so far as my know-
j ledge of them goes, they appear to have the courage of
<| their convictions, and are therefore open to investigate
) I extraordinary alleged facts, come from whence they
I may.
They both profess to be unable to explain what they
)j saw, but are not prepared on one observation to offer
(! any opinion, except that they are unable to account for
(| what they observed.
At eight o’clock, the hour appointed for the com-
(I mencement of the stance, there were present about forty
)j ladies and gentlemen, many of whom I inferred from
their conversation to be frequenters of the room, and
1 familiar with the phenomena of Spiritualism.
My clerical friend remarked to me, sotto voce, “ They
appear very amiable people.” I replied, “Yes, they are
/1 well-meaning people, just such as may be found at any
(j respectable place of worship.”
) | The spectators sat round three sides of the room—on
/1 one side in one row, at the end in three rows, and at
\| the other side in two rows, all more .or less facing the
)j corner of the room in which the medium, Miss Wood,
l\ sat. The medium was closed in the corner of the room
by a slight wooden frame covered with thin muslin,
through which she could easily be seen. The sides of
this muslin-covered screen were screwed to the wall on
one side and to the angle bead on the other, and the
heads of the screws were sealed with wax, thus totally
preventing either ingress to or egress from the corner in
which the medium sat.
The muslin-covered frame is upwards of six feet high.
Two long curtains suspended from the ceiling enclosed
both muslin screen and medium, who, under these con¬
ditions, was firmly secured, and if any materialised
forms passed from within the curtain, it is quite clear
that those forms could not be personated by the medium
who was behind the muslin-covered frame, which is so
slight that any attempt to escape from behind it would
have resulted in its being broken to pieces.
These arrangements having been made, the gaslight
was lowered, and we sat in dim light, quite sufficient to
enable me to see all who were in the room.
For the first hour the time was occupied by pleasant
chat with one of the controls having the sobriquet of Pocka,
who controlled the medium.
At nine o’clock the talk ceased. The audience sang
one or two hymns, and presently a tall female figure,
draped profusely in white, walked from behind the
curtains into the middle of the room. The figure pro¬
fessed to be the daughter of an aged lady who was pre¬
sent. The mother approached the daughter, kneeled on
the floor at the feet of the psychic, and the two, mother
July 25, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
43
K
and daughter, embraced each other in a most affectionate j <
manner for about sixty seconds. ||
This form retired, and was immediately succeeded by i <
another female form, somewhat stouter than the last, j|
who professed to be the mother of the lady who sat next i /
to her. The lady rose, went forward to her mother, i (
and the two affectionately embraced and kissed each I j
other. i (
This form withdrew, and was succeeded by a male H
form, somewhat smaller of stature, who took up a guitar !)
which stood in the room, carried it aloft, and walked ™
round the room, pretending to strike various sitters on j)
the head, but always checking the downward course of K
the guitar before the head was struck. He was instantly j)
followed by a female form, who moved much more j<
slowly and gracefully in the room, and shook hands with | (
several of the sitters, conducting herself in a gentle and j /
womanly manner. K
She retired, and was succeeded by two small children, n
apparently not more than two feet high, who, in a child- |)
like way, patted and kissed the hands of the visitors. | \
One of these children patted and kissed my hand. Its I)
hands were very small and warm, and its lips were soft 11
.and moist. |)
These two forms were followed speedily by another )
small psychic known as Pocka. She was about four feet j {
high. She moved about the room freely, shook hands j)
with several of the sitters, spoke several times, and |\
eventually retired. ; 1 ' i:i j)
A hymn was sung, the gaslights were raised, the cur- I (
tains were drawn back, and I went into the recess for \)
the purpose of examining the muslin-covered screen and j)
the condition of the screws. I found the screen firmly | \
fixed to the walls, the screws with their wax coverings j j
intact, and the medium sitting on a chair within the #|r
enclosure formed by the muslin screen. ! \
This stance, remarkable as it was, was perhaps not j)
sufficiently convincing to justify a person who, for the u
first time, attended a circle and witnessed phenomena of j)
the kind, receiving them as certainly genuine. j(
It is requisite, in order to be thoroughly satisfied as |>
to occurrences so antecedently improbable to ordinary j(
persons as are those I have described, that they have jj>
opportunities-of examining them under various condi- i)
tions, and that, in fact, all the surroundings and circum- i (
stances should be understood; but to myself, who had j >
witnessed materialisations under almost every conceivable j (
condition- and on many occasions, these phenomena were |\
absolutely conclusive, and I could as soon believe that j)
the medium by trick or deception produced the phe- j(
nomena, as I could believe that by an act of volition any j >
mere man could stop the earth in its axial motion, and j \
thus cause the sun to appear to stand still. I j
RAPS ON THE WALL.
BY J. A. CAMPBELL, B.A.
A CIRCULAR LETTER TO MY “ SPIRITUAL ” FRIENDS.
Pythagoras has a recommendation to mankind, written
somewhere or other, “ not to eat their hearts.” That
warning was needful, I suppose, in the days of Pythagoras,
when hearts were considered to be as essential parts of
the human constitution as claws and gullet are now
proved to be by Professor Bain and Professor Fawcett,
who not only show us how most deftly to use them in the
present, but have laboriously traced out the history of
their development in the past, when alma mater t( exact
science,” first proudly throned at *Gottenburg, bade
defiance to those older dreamers who once taught of the
* A primitive printing office was established there.
heart that it contained the issues of life, and classified
men in an amative, not acquisitive, manner, as concordant
and discordant, rather than as succeeders and failers, and
who spoke of their divinity being such an one as was
touched with our infirmities ; whose misericoi'de remained
throughout the ages. Not so the wisdom of *G-ottenburg,
which has finally relegated the Divinity to His true rank as
a “ manufacturer of atoms,” if (as seems highly impro¬
bable) He have any actual existence at all.
Now, owing to the city of Gotham being unfavourably,
situated on the plains near the shore rather than upon a
hill, or to the want of interest in navigation of the wise
men, neither has any electric nor other light reached mo
from there over Sea Fell, nor have the venturesome mis¬
sionaries of the order carnivora, A.M.G., reached the
wilds of Westmoreland, and the result is that I remain,
with those around me, hearty, Pythagorean, and ethical;
whereas, had the carbons at Gotham been longer, or tho
mission tub been stronger, my knowledge might have been
increased; and heady, epicurean, and anatomical, I
might at this moment have been helping the Kendal
chimneys down there in the valley to shut out the sun¬
light altogether, instead of playing with him a hopeless
game at hide-and-seek through the leaves of a copper
beech growing on my friend’s lawn here at Milnthorpe.
Since, however, I remain for the present deplorably
unscientific, and am convinced but too unmistakably that
I have a heart by certain achings which become at times
intolerable—accountable for, doubtless, by molecular
motion, but still intolerable—I have resolved to take the
advice of Pythagoras, and cease eating my heart—for, for
the last four months it has been bitter food, worse than
the little roll of the prophet, believe me—and to unburden
myself to you, kind friends, who have cheered me by
letters from time to time, saying that you found some
method in my (published) madness. I want to talk a
little, then, with unclean lips confessedly, that cry daily
for a live coal from any overstocked altar, about that
much-boasted position of ours before the world—position
aggressive and defensive, from which I hear it often
reiterated we may defy mankind, and successfully repel
all the fiery darts of the devil; but don’t be angry with me,
dear friends, if I tell you that instead of joining, as
formerly, in that psean over thrice-slain foes, and heralds
challenge urbe et orli; instead, I say, of confident
march to Jericho and round about it, with con¬
fidence and ark-bearing, taking in store of oxygenf
for the final overthrow, I have been examining quietly,
and with microscopic accuracy, the foundation-
stones of our own citadel, the result of which—let
me call it, to please my vanity, heaven-sent commission
of inquiry—has been that my report runs painfully;
unsound, unsound. But it is a sure sign of an unpro¬
gressive state of mind against which I know you would
pray to be delivered, as your forefathers from the wrath of
the Northmen, to take anything upon trust in these days
of inquiry and enlightenment; and, indeed, in this matter
of buildings your caution is both just and necessary, for
it is not long since, in my own College of Pembroke, cer¬
tificate of insecurity as unfaltering as mine was given by Mr.
Waterhouse—the hall of it a last and lovely relic of faithful
English building, and of the training school of Ridley and
of Spenser—was shattered by the strength of gunpowder;
no human pickwork availing. I have reason, then, since that
barbarity cost me more life in sorrow than I had to spare
* It strikes me as I write that Gotham may be simply an
abbreviation or corruption of Gottenburg, in which case the
present leaders of enlightened thought may some day be proud
to be lineally descended from those wise ones who, scorning terra
firma, went to sea in a tub.
•(■ I have been reading G. H. Lewes, and am scientific up to the
knees for the next few weeks.
44
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 25, 1879.
from necessary labour, to commend your prudence, asking j <
you to go over with me the ground again, testing with j(
hammer strokes the weak places where I have traced upon 0
our walls the red cross of danger. I)
THE CORNER-STONE. /
Just as I was reconsidering—for I do consider things |)
again and again before I act (which quality my friends are j j
in the habit of calling impracticability and changefulness) I \
—whether or not my guardian angels really did set in my j /
way this Pythagorean sentence as an acting order, or j:{
whether I should not act more prudently in following the j;
practice of Our Lady, like a true knight, keeping and j(
pondering my painful thoughts, as she did her ||
pleasant ones, in my heart — forget all about Pytha- |(
goras, and avoid being criticised and abused—just
then came Madame de Steiger’s first article, and I
turned round and looked again at the large red cross \l
which I had chalked on our corner-stone, looked at it, j {
and determined to fulfil my mission, having no more !/
doubts as to the warrant and sign-manual of “rudder- , j<
guiding Eors,” who first hunted up for me out of Bacon j)
the quoted exhortation not to “ eat my heart;” then j)
made me re-read Peveril of the Peah ; and lastly caused | \
the quite unmistakable challenge of Madame de Steiger to i)
follow me when I thought I was undiscoverable by any- j|
body for a quiet fortnight. j)
Pythagoras said write; and I said *What shall I write ? l|
and Peveril said, “That elaborate details are no proof of ||
an underlying foundation of fact; witness the Popish i)
Plot! everybody knew of the wonderful and foul con- K
spiracy, but nobody ventured to ask What is the plot ?” )
And, believe me, that is the very hardest thing possible, k
to calm oneself enough to ask, or to think of getting a reply j (
to, when everybody is comfortably enjoying the warmth |/
of a newly-discovered mare’s nest. K
I waited for Madame de Steiger’s second letter before j)
putting Peveril’s question, hoping that that might render j)
it unnecessary; but no ! more description of loveliness, Is
superiority (more trumpet-blowing at devoted Jericho), |)
but no reply to the unfortunate ignorants, who still ask j(
What is the religion of Spiritualism ? Oh, I do want to j)
know so much. I have tried to find out; but in good ! <
sooth the eloquence of inspirational orators, and the H
melting descriptions “of the white-winged angels, and j)
the departed dear ones hovering near,f and of the sure j \
granite rock of knowledge on which we stood gazing on j)
the slippery sands of faith below,” had well-nigh jc
made me think myself impertinent for doubting and \\
wondering still. I was going to say in these articles of j)
mine that I thought we “Spiritualists” might be the j(
better of a little more definite and uniting faith, but I am I)
met by the reply that “Spiritualism” is in itself our
faith, our religion. Now I understand, and I suppose every j|
one else understands, who does not use words ignorantly |/
or carelessly, by religion one binding link j; with the Father | (
of Spirits, which is made stronger only by the knowledge |)
that we may chance to attain of His character and K
being. How does the certainty of a future life (granting | >
this to be attainable) through Spiritualism—which, by-the- j)
by, does not in the least imply the certainty of j|
immortality—make this more clear to us? Have the i
revelations of Mr. Harris—about whose life-history I K
shall have something to say before long—or the visions of j j
* I wanted to know where to begin the inspection. j S
f The metaphors of inspirational orators are apt to be con- i >
fused. I suppose their “ guides ” bother them, as dear old mother i)
“Fors” bothers me. Indeed, “guides” are often capricious ap- j)
patently, for people write me interesting letters, and their (
“ guides ” won’t allow them to tell their names. I got one of |<
them quite lately, so I am not able to reply to them. It is l\
most unkind of the “ guides ”tto tease one so. i \
X I have said all this before, but there is need to repeat.: . *
Mr. Davis given us more vivid or inspiring sense of union
with eternal love, than did the revelations given—
remember, for the first time in the world’s history—by the
Son of Man, of “ the Father who Himself loveth all,”
“ who maketh His sun to rise on the evil and on the good,
and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.” I do
not speak of morality, merely of religion ; of the relations
of the latter to Spiritualism I shall hope to say something
shortly. My next article will deal with the history of
Christianity and its influence upon spiritual life and
poetry, of which the unconscious record has been for long
my study. Thanking Dr. Wyld for his letter, and Dr.
Carter Blake for his; thanking Madame De Steiger for
her earnest articles, I am, dear Spiritualist friends, yours
humbly at service, J, A, C.
EXPEEIMENTS IN A HOSPITAL.
The Lancet of July 12 contains an article by Dr.
McCall Anderson, Professor of Clinical Medicine in the
University of Glasgow, from which we make some
extracts:—
On February 14th, 1879, there was admitted under
my care, in the Western Infirmary, a domestic servant,
eighteen years of age, who was suffering from fits 
She had amblyopia on the left side, in so far as she had
great difficulty in reading small print with the left eye;
and she was colour-blind with it to this extent, that she
recognised blue, yellow, and red, while green she called
black or navy blue, and violet black. This corresponds
with Charcot’s observations, who states that the colours
disappear according to a mathematical order—violet dis¬
appearing first, then green, then red, then yellow, and
blue last of all. It seems, too, that for a quarter of an
hour after a fit everything appears white.. Another
peculiarity noted was slight powerlessness of the left
side, not amounting to paralysis, as there was no lame¬
ness ; but on squeezing the dynamometer with the right
hand it registered 65, while with the left only 35 kilo¬
grammes. But a much more marked feature, and one
which the patient apparently was not aware of, was com¬
plete hemiansesthe’sia of the left side. This was tested
over and over again, the patient being blindfolded, and
every precaution being taken to prevent deception ; and
it was uniformly found that there was complete loss of
the sense of touch, of temperature, and of pain. A
needle could be thrust into the arm or leg ever so far
without the patient wincing in the least, while the
slightest pinch on the right side made her start. It was
observed, too, that the needle punctures bled much more
readily on this side; and once or twice it was noted,
when the sensation was temporarily restored to the left
side, by the methods to be mentioned later on, that
punctures on that side began to bleed which were alto¬
gether bloodless while the anaesthesia was present.
This affords one of many proofs that the symptoms were
not feigned. The loss of sensation was not limited to
the skin, but likewise involved the mucous membranes
on the left side: thus the left eyeball could be touched
without her wincing in the least. She had also lost the
sense of.taste upon one side of the tongue, as she could
not recognise coffee or salt when placed upon the left
side, although she had no difficulty in doing so on the
right. This loss of general and of special sensation was
exactly limited to the left side, for on crossing the
middle line she at once told us, although carefully blind¬
folded. ... I had the opportunity of seeing only one fit,
which occurred one day after she had been mesmerised,
but it was evidently identical in its characters with
those seen by my assistant, Dr. Dunlop.
45
July 25, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST.
* It was determined to search for a metal which might kj
have some influence on her symptoms (metalloscopy). jvl
The following observations were therefore made :— j)j
On Feb. 21st, at 10.30 a.m., three pieces of gold (a j\i
sovereign and two half-sovereigns) were applied in a j /1
slanting direction to the left temple. The sovereign j(.j
was the highest of the three coins, and was situated just j>|
above the outer end of the eyebrow. For some time j(j
there was no alteration in her condition, but in twenty j) j
minutes she had a feeling as if “something living” was n|
moving from temple to temple. Sensation and the j(j
sense of pain now extended beyond the middle line of {)i
the forehead as far to the left as the sovereign, but no j; i
further, while the sensation on the right side remained i) j
perfect as before. In twenty-three minutes she could j; j
distinguish the colour of violet with the left eye, but |; |
green she still called black. The sight of the right eye j | j
was not affected, but she complained of frontal headache, j; |
sighed frequently, and had spasmodic jerkings of the j;|
head. On removal of the coins, under which the jkj
anaesthesia was unaffected, the headache and jerkings j>j
disappeared. At 3 p.m., when she was again seen, the
alteration in the symptoms above mentioned still per- |i|
sisted. !||
At this time a large magnet was held over the left kj
forearm,- at a distance of about half an inch from the suf- ! 11
face. In half a minute sensation began to return to the Jin
left forearm, and within five minutes there was complete j j I
return of sensation and sense of pain to the whole of the j) j
left side of the body, but the whole of the right side had jd
become completely hemiansesthetic and analgesic. The j i j
left eye continued in the same state as regards the colour- j; I
blindness as before the observation, but with the right j 11
green appeared to her black. The magnet was next jk
held over the right forearm, at the distance of half an i|
inch from it, and in two minutes and a half sensation kj
had returned to the whole of the right side of the body ; ju
but, contrary to expectation, the left side did not again j)
become ansesthetic, so that sensation was now perfect k
over the whole body. The colour-blindness remained j\
as before the last observation. |)
Next day (Feb. 22nd) she was in the same state— !(
that is, sensation was perfect all over; with the left eye j)
she could distinguish all colours, while with the right j(|
she mistook green for black. The magnet was now j^j
placed within half an inch of the left forearm, and in m
three minutes the whole of the left side became anaesthetic j j j
and analgesic, including the mucous membrane of the j)j
left eye (which could be touched without the patient j(j
feeling it at all), left side of the nostril, mouth, arid j)j
tongue, the sense of taste being likewise gone on this j(j
side. The colour-blindness did not, however, reappear Kj
on the left side, although with the right eye she mistook j/j
violet for black. The left ovary continued tender. The j (i
magnet was next held close to the right forearm, and in nj
three minutes sensation had disappeared from the right m
side of the body, but there was no transference of the jS
sensation to the other side, so that the whole body was j)j
now anaesthetic, including the mucous membranes, and ju
she had entirely lost the sense of taste. When in this j) J
state a circular piece of lead, four inches diameter, was k
fastened to the right forearm, and in one minute sen- m
sation was restored to both sides of the body, and there j|f
'was no colour-blindness with either eye, but the left Kj
ovarialgia persisted. A piece of tin of the same size and j) j
shape was next applied over the left arm without her j(j
knowing of the change of metal, but in seven minutes, Kj
there being no alteration in the symptoms, the lead plate kj
was substituted, but was removed in five minutes, as it Kj
had no effect. The magnet was theh held over the left j)j
forearm, and in a minute there was anesthesia and
analgesia of the right side of the body, but on transferring
the magnet to the right side, the anaesthesia and analgesia
were immediately transferred to the left side. She could
now distinguish all colours with the right eye, but with
the left she called green black.
At a meeting of the Medico-Chirurgical Society on
February 28th, before a large number of the profession,
the patient was blindfolded, and the following additional
observations were made(1) The ordinary magnet
with keeper on had no effect, though used for at least
ten minutes. (2) A large electro-magnet was employed
by my colleague Professor McKendrick. So long as the
current was not allowed to pass there was no result, but
in three minutes after it was turned on, without her
being made aware of it, the sensation returned to the
left side of the body, while the right became anaesthetic
and analgesic, being the reverse of her state before the
electro-magnet was used.
On Tuesday, March 4 th, with the co-operation of Drs.
McKendrick, Ramsay, and Service, and the patient
being blindfolded, a solenoid was placed on the little
finger of the left (ansesthetic) side. For seven minutes
it was not connected with the battery (Stohrer’s), which
was placed underneath the bed, with an assistant in
charge of it, and there was no result. The connection
was then made (and in such a way that it was absolutely
impossible for the patient to know what was being done),
eight cells being in use, and in seven minutes the left
side became (esthetic, and the right ansesthetic.
The temperature was compared simultaneously on the
two sides, before the transference, by means of Lombard’s
delicate thermo-electric apparatus (which, however, does
not give the difference in degrees), and it was found that
the right side was the warmer. The same result was
obtained after the transference of the anesthesia to the
right side, as well as on the following day, the condition
of the patient in the interval remaining the same as
after the employment of the solenoid.
PRESS OPINIONS ABOUT SPIRITUAL
LITERATURE.
{From the “ Banner of Light f Boston, U.S.)
Mesmerism, with Hints for Beginners. By John
James, formerly Captain 90th Light Infantry. Lon¬
don: W. H. Harrison, 1879.
This neat and attractive volume is published to meet
a demand for a text-book for < those who are looking for
information respecting the nature, practice, and results
of mesmerism. The author lias had a long experience
with the subject, and, judging from the general tenor
of his book, no person could be selected better able to
make the matter plain to the comprehension of every
one. Commencing with observations on the methods
of various practitioners, the author proceeds with some
simple directions to so instruct his readers that they
can easily test their skill in the science. Following
these, misconceptions regarding mesmerism are cor¬
rected, certain anomalies in the phenomena stated, and
interesting reminiscences narrated. A chapter is devoted
to Alexis Didier, the famous somnambulist who created
considerable sensation and controversy upwards of thirty
years ago, and is one of great interest.
To students of mental conditions and phenomena,
this volume cannot fail to be very acceptable. We would
like to quote largely from it, but have only room for
this single sentence, the point and truth of which all of
our readers will duly appreciate :—
“ Many ingenious but perhaps not ingenuous people
are accustomed to assert that all that is true in Spirit¬
ualism is nothing else than mesmerism; and it is really
46
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 25, L879
quite surprising to find the number of individuals who j (
avow their belief in the latter, when they wish to depre- ;)
ciate the claims of the former science. They are in the j (
habit of exclaiming, ‘ Oh! we always believed in mes- I)
merismbut it is to be suspected that in former days, j)
when the hostility to mesmerism was almost as bitter j (
and unscrupulous as it is to-day against Spiritualism, i>
that at least some of these soi-disant believers were j(
amongst the most active of its opponents.”
A Clergyman on Spiritualism. D. Clericus. With j (
a Dedication to Rev. Sir William Dunbar, Bart., and i >
Some Thoughts for the Consideration of the Clergy, k
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory. London: W. H. j)
Harrison. j)
The title of this compact little book pretty fully o
explains it to the reader in advance. It will do much \\
good among preachers, for it asks only that each of j>
them, in respect to Spiritualism, be persuaded in his i)
own mind. j j
(From the uIteligio-Philosophical Journal” Chicago.)
Spirits before our Eyes. By Wm. H. Harrison, |j
London. London: W. H. Harrison, 1879.
This book is not only neatly bound, and printed on !)
fine tinted paper, but it contains a vast amount of highly \)
interesting and useful information. It deals chiefly with j)
the spiritual phenomena in which nobody recognised as j /
a public or private spiritual medium takes any part, that | (
is to say, it treats :— j)
1. All those cases in which private individuals once j(
or twice in their lives see and identify a real spirit I>
through the action of some cause external to themselves, j'(
and not primarily from physiological malady. This will | (
include those numerous cases in which a spirit is seen j)
sometimes by one or more witnesses in one place at K
about the time that his body died at another place, or j\
long after that time. . K
2. The phenomena of haunted houses.
3. It is intended to deal almost exclusively with cases ! j
in which the identity of the spirit is proved, that is to K
say, in which the spirits are recognised to be the persons j (
they say they are. | /
The incidents related are very interesting, all of which \\
are no doubt true, as they are recorded by one of the |)
most conscientious, careful, Critical thinkers of England, j v
He well claims that when the spirit of a man is partially j,
loosened from his body at the approach of death, and j {
when that spirit can make itself visible to a distant j)
friend, the bodily powers are sometimes not so far i)
destroyed but that the lips of the sufferer can tell those i (
around the bed that the far-off person has been seen by j)
him. Thus direct evidence of the reality of the ji
phenomena is presented at “both ends of the line.” i)
Thousands will read this book, and thank Mr. Harrison j (
for writing it.
Mesmerism, with Hints to Beginners. By Capt. j\
James. London: W.H. Harrison, 1879.
This is a book admirably adapted for the purpose i j
designed. Capt. James writes clearly, concisely, and to ||
the point on a subject which should receive a great deal |j
more attention than it does at the present time. His |)
statements and experiments cannot fail to be of value j (
to all who read them. The work is neatly and sub- | j
stantially bound, and should have an. extensive sale in |<
this country, as well as in Europe. j)
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, of New York, writes to us that he
intends shortly to return to Paris, and to visit London en route.
COMING A LONG DISTANCE TO SUPPER.
The following strange story from the St. Louis Repub¬
lican has been sent to us by Mr, J. L. O’Sullivan, New
York. The Mr. Mott mentioned in the narrative is a
well-known American medium :—
Leavenworth, June 25.—Society and those who have
faith in spiritual manifestations are all agog over a stance
held in this city last Friday evening that puts everything
else in its line completely in the shade. It is a well-
known fact that Colonel Isaac Eaton, member of the
Democratic National Committee, and formerly Land Com¬
missioner of the Hannibal and St. Jo. Railroad, is a
Spiritualist; in fact, it has now become a mania with
him, and all his luck, good or bad, comes from the de¬
parted dead. Mrs. Eaton, his estimable wife, is also a
strong believer, and they have made frequent trips to
Memphis, Mo., to interview the famous Professor Mott,
to try to further their researches. Colonel Eaton is as
firm in his belief of having received messages from the
departed, and having seen and conversed with them, as
he is sure that the sun rises and sets. In several of his
numerous visits to Mott he has seen and conversed
with his daughter Katie, who died at the age
of three weeks, who has been a member “of the
angel band” for thirty years. During his last visit
she told him that she was soon to be married, and
that Benj. Pierce, a son of ex-President Franklin Pierce,
was to be her husband. She stated that the wedding
would take place on the 20th June, in the spirit land,
and asked that he make the necessary arrangements for a
wedding supper, and she and her husband would visit
them during the evening. The Colonel was only too
glad to spare neither pains nor expense to further the
wedding arrangements, and so a closet in the house was
transformed into a cabinet for the accommodation of the
medium. Prof. Mott and his wife, of Memphis; Dr.
Dooley, of Kansas City; Col. H. B. McKay, late Presi¬
dent of the Alliance Life Insurance Company ; and Mrs.
McKay, of this city, and the immediate members of Mr.
Eaton’s family were the guests at the wedding supper.
Prof. Mott took his place in the cabinet; the table
was spread, two covers being laid for the bride and
groom, and an elegant bouquet was placed beside their
plates. After the guests were seated, the medium
announced that the bridal party had arrived. The
guests, one after another, arose from the table and went
to the cabinet, the lady and her husband there being
presented to them. They both appeared very distinct
and lifelike, and both entered heartily into the general
conversation. After this ceremony was over the bride
and groom walked out of the cabinet. The bride wore
a heavy white satin dress, with flowing veil and orange
blossoms. The groom was attired in the customary
black, with a buttonhole bouquet.
After receiving numerous congratulations the bridal
party bade their friends good-bye, and departed, so to
speak, for their celestial home.
All concerned move in the highest society circles, and
hence the fwore this wedding has caused.
A Materialised Spirit.—Last Wednesday night, at a
seance at the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21,
Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, the self-illuminated
materialised spirit of John King was seen several times by all
present floating over the table, while the medium, Mr. Wil¬
liams (off his own premises), had his hands held by Mr. Serjeant
Cox on the one side, and Lady Colquhoun on the other. Among
the witnesses present were Sir William Dunbar, Bart.; Mrs.
Gregory, Mrs. Wiseman, Miss M. Houghton, Mr. Townsend,
Mr. Annesley Mayne, and Mr. Harrison.
July 25, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
TRANCE TESTS AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
A REPORT FURNISHED BY MR. H. A. KERSEY, HON. SEC. TO THE
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUAL EVIDENCE SOCIETY.
Mr. F. 0. Matthews is now fulfilling a fortnight’s
engagement with the Newcastle Spiritual Evidence
Society, the first week of which has just expired. During
that week he gave tests at three public meetings, and
at three stances open to members and their friends. The
total number of communications given at these six meet¬
ings was ninety-six, of which fifty-eight were recognised
as correct, twenty-two as being partially correct, and
sixteen were unrecognised. Considering the necessarily
promiscuous nature of these meetings, the results must
be considered highly satisfactory. The following are
some of the most favourable communications, and are
given nearly verbatim. It is to be regretted that two or
three persons acknowledged the tests after the meetings
were over, but no notice of such is included in above
statistics. Those cases not publicly recognised are put
amongst the failures :—
I.
The first object which attracts our notice is the form
of a beautiful female spirit. She hovers over this part
of the hall. (Position indicated.) She gives her name
as “Lizzy.” She seems to follow our friend through
life. She is his guardian angel. She seems to have but
little knowledge of earthly existence, she is so pure and
beautiful. She does not seem to have been long con¬
nected with earth-life. She is beside that gentleman
sitting near the wall on the right.—llecognised.
II.
(To a lady.) Have you not lost a female friend who
died recently ? “ Yes."—She does not seem to under¬
stand her position yet. She does not seem to have died
in England; it seems to be either in Scotland or on the
border. Did your female friend die near the borders of
Scotland? “No."—The scene before me is that of a
country place. I see a small house; there are hills
around, and a river near it. (Ansicer.) “ That is like the
place.”—She is calling for another spirit friend, named
Mary; this Mary is a relative to both you and her;
with the help of this friend she can communicate what
she desires. (A description of Mary was given and
recognised.) You have been contemplating a change in
household matters? “ Yes."—You have some friends
contemplating going abroad ? “Yes."—Your friend does
not say it will be successful, and thinks it would be
better to stay at home for a time.
HI.
May I ask this lady here if her grandmother’s name
was Elizabeth ? “ No."—(Description given and recog¬
nised by a lady sitting next to her.)
IV,
I see before me here one named John, who has passed
into spirit life. He seems to have passed away under
rather hard circumstances. He wasted his life; he used to
drink heavily occasionally. The intelligence wishes to
tell Mary, who is now living, that things will be better
for her in the future than they have been in the past,
for she has toiled hard, but things will turn out better
than she expects, and she will be more comfortable
soon.—Recognised.
V.
I should like to ask that gentleman if he did not have
an anonymous letter sent to him some time ago ? “ Yes."—
The person who sent the letter has had great cause to
regret it, for he has the contents of the letter returned
to him in all its bitterness. The spirits have turned the
(| tables on him, and things have gone against him,—
) | Recognised.
I VI.
) j Our lady friend here has brought some hair. Just
\j hand it to me, please. (Hair handed to the medium.)
)i You were talking to a female to-day about this matter ?
(i “ Yes."—The influence tells me you have had to put up
>! with a great deal of trouble from a male person. You
have had to labour hard for those wTho ought to have
\j laboured for you, but things will change for the better
) | soon. You have one Lizzy, who is very near to you, and in
(| spirit is often with you. She passed away some time
}| ago. You were trying to get manifestations in your
)| bedroom the other night ? “ Not in the bedroom ; it was in
(j the kitchen."—Why do I see a bed there; it appears to be
jj a large covered-in bed, like a cupboard.—(The lady) “ It
(j is a cupboard press-bed, and stands in the kitchen."—(The
j! medium) I see the table as it were there (indicating
)| position), and I see you at the table. The spirit who
I owned this hair was trying to manifest to you. . She says
)j you had the name spelled out through the table, and
<| while you were receiving another communication you
;j got mixed up, but she will communicate again if you
will sit at the time appointed.—Acknowledged to be correct
jj in every particular.
VII.
Here is a strange scene. There is an intelligence
) j here which says, “ I made her dream that very uncommon
jj dream last night which is so inexplicable to her, but
)j which has made such a deep impression on her mind.”
(j The intelligence further says, “I did it for a sort of
ji warning; but nothing unhappy will take place. The
j i spirits only wish you to take a deeper interest in the
ji work which is being done.”—Recognised.
j! vnl-
I don’t know how it is, but I see a pawnbroker’s shop
j j before me. Some one here, surely, is in that business. No
jj response.—Does our friend here (indicating a lady) know
j j why I speak in this way ? I see before me a pledge
j j ticket for some silver, upon which some money has been
«I lent, and our lady friend holds it as security for some
j j thing lent to the owner of the ticket.—Recognised.
IX.
j j May I ask that gentleman sitting there if he has had
ji any connection with a fire ? The scene before me repre-
ji sents a serious fire. There seems to have been a narrow
jj escape with life. An old lady represents this fire as
ji having occurred in her day. She is an old lady
ji (description given), and a near relative to you, and she
j i brings this forward in order to prove her identity to
jj you. She was a consumptive-looking woman, and yet
j j she did not die from that disease. Do you recognise
j i that ? “ Yes, I recognise it as being correct. My grand-
jj mother was carried out of the house, it being on fire."
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
II A. Z.—You did not enclose your name or address.
In a quotation from a communication received from Mr. Blyton
j printed in The Spiritualist of July 4th, the closing quotation
j marks were put in the wrong place in error, the words “ A
sitting for ordinary form manifestations then took place ” being
j ours, and not his.
j Several letters of late, from Norwood, Edinburgh, and other
I j j places have been addressed to the editor by name, consequently
j) I not published, it not being clear whether the information in
j j! them was intended to be published, or sent for private use.
j ji M.—There is a demand for a representative body in Spiritualism,
jjj in which the managers shall be elected by the members; and
; : the supply is sure, sooner or later, to meet the requirement.
July 25, 1879.
48
THE- SPIRITUALIST.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Jly the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size,
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies'post free for 21s.
Copies may also be had bound in half calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d,
per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture-
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy — Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage-
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V: —Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator-
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied,
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Teaching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—^Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artiflcially Produced—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Oases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Oases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—^Apparitions—^Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modem Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those arc
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two stances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
July 25, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Hi
MRS. WELDON (Miss Treherne) will
read a short ADDRESS, “How I Escaped the
Had Doctors,’’ and make a few remarks on the trial of
Queen ». Mortimer, Weldon v. London Figaro. Will
sing Mrs. Edward Fitz-Gerald’s celebrated ballad,
“ I Remember how my Childhood fleeted by,” Gounod’s
“0 Happy Home and Better Lani," Urich’s “Pity the
Wives and Babes at Home,” and “ Night Thoughts,”
by Mrs. Weldon. On Monday evening, July 28, at
8 p.m., at Quebec Hall, 25, Great Quebec-street, Mary-
lebone-road, close to Baker-street Station. Admission
free. Collection at close.
British national associa.
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 88, Great Russell-
streot, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman Road, Brixton.
The object of the Society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well-known mediums, and are entitled to the use of
books on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., <fcc.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
TI/TRS. WELDON’S WEDNESDAY
1VI RECITALS. Mrs. Weldon gives an Evening’s
entertainment weekly, at Tavistock House, her re*
sidence (formerly Charles Dickens’). The programme
is varied by a short Lecture, sacred and romantic;
serious and nursery songs by Gounod, Urich, and Mrs.
Weldon. Tickets to be had on application free. A
collection is made for Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage,
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London. 
Cloth, small 8vo,'price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who fa not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
oiiginal position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, H, Ave Maria-lane, E.C, 
Price 5s. 6d,
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of tide poems were given.
CONTENTS.
PART I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
PART n.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI,
Little Johnny—XVII. “ Birdie’s Spirit Song ”—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. f* I still Live ”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII.« For a’ that"—XXIII. Words o’
Cheer - XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Valo—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same authoress, a companion volume,
price 5s. 6
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
REYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 6, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges. Post
free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of.articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —"01 Beautiful White Mother Death." Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind. Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke. .
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
" M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIH.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wunnbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke;
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—" Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
0. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of "Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.’’
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —" My Saint." By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—Tlie Touch.of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of ‘‘M.A., Oxon."
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Wotherington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellqw’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII. — Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Colder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougali
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russell Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child's Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.G.
Price 6s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
"M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT.
COXTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits In the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A, R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory, of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr.
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances?—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S.
C. Hail—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C., F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. 0. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—■
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVL—^Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—>
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—^Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss—Leon Case-
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition, enlarged.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE
COMPARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from
Spiritualism with the idea that it is unchristian and
unscriptural. It shows (we thiuk successfully) that
every form of mediumship, now so familiar to Spirit¬
ualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of identical
experiences. Also
HEAVEN OPENED.
Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The two bound in one, Is.
These books, consisting of messages given by
writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth,
and their group of little ones in their Spirit homo.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and
sorrowing parents.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id. j Post free
for IJd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 25, 1879.
IV
rpELE ALPHA; or, the Pirst Principle
l of the Human Mind; a Kevelation, but no
Mystery. With Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait
of the Author, E. N. Eennys. 370 pages, price 3s. 6d.
“We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellows.”
■—A then mum..
“ It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and
logic than any work we have ever read ; it is a new
revelation, and one of the most remarkable productions
ev.r given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also, just published, with engraving of the Author,
470 pages, price 3s. 6d.
rpHl RELIGION OE LIFE, as exemp-
-JL lifted by Jesus Christ. A series of Lectures by
the Author of “Alpha.”
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C
Now ready, 48 pp. Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS FOR JULY, 1879.
The Spiritual Pilgrim ; by “ M. A." (Oxon)—Voices
from the Ages, The Pimander; by P. Davidson—The
Story of Him who wore the Wreath; by A. M. Howitt
Watts—The Attitude of the Religious World towards
Modern Spiritualism ; by John S. Farmer—The Phila¬
delphian Society; by J. W. F.—The Rev. J. Baldwin
Brown on the Resurrection ; by J. S. F.—“ Spiritual¬
istic Sanity.”— The Music of the Spheres an inspiration;
by M. C. T. G.—Notes and Gleanings: Cardinal New-
mm and the Spiritual Body; Why do Mediums use
Great Names? The Spiritual in Animals; The Rise
and Growth of the Brahmo-Somaj; Leibnitz on
Psychomety; What is the Use of Spiritualism ?—
Spiritual Lyrics, the Cure of Care; by T. S.
London : E. W. ALLEN, Ave Maria Lane.
Glasgow : H. NISBET <fc Co., Ropework Lane.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8 to.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CR.OWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
f .cts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
A LADY SPIRITUALIST AND
jr\_ MEDIUM is forming a circle for inquirers,
every Monday and Thursday evening, at eight o’clock.
She wishes to engage a genuine materialisation
medium for once a week.—Kindly communicate to
A., 2, Scarsdale-villas, Kensington.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Cossonerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of (Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth,
Prize Essays.
The probable effects of
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second
Gold Medals of. the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
P ESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA
JLU OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London
Yi.O..
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, aad some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
PART Miscellaneous Poeim and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Smg of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—t. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji L. Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to AH Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride's Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—It. “ Fast Falls the Eventide."—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—16. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—10. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirhel-hewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes."
—24. The Angel of Silence.
PART 2.—The Wobhlejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaio.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament.—29. The July Bug.— 30. The Converted
Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
hook in a review nearly a column long, says“ Comic
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; consequently
any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a genuine
vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who are not too
stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on
the contrary, some of his poems touch on the deepest
and most sacred feelings of our common humanity.
. . . The unfortunate Hadji's narrative of his ad¬
ventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is
quite one of the funniest things that has been pub¬
lished for years. . . . The book contains quite
enough to ensure it a welcome from which its tasteful
appearance will not detract.” The Morning Post says
of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in
“ something like the same key as The Bon Gaultier
Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably suc¬
cessful result."
From The Court Journal.
"All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings, Written, printed, published, and
reviewed by William H. Harrison <38, Great Russell-
street). Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mods. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. These poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, arc of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
XTOTICE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
JlN NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER has arranged for seances on Tuesday and
Friday afternoons, at four o'clock precisely. At home
for private sittings and mesmeric treatment; de-
velopmsnt for clairvoyance and other forms of
mediumship, from one to five o’clock.daily; and eight
to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The "Poughkeepsie Seer." e. d.
The Physician. Vol. It Gt. Harmonla . 17 6
The Teacher. „ II. „ . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . .7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People ... . . . . . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual , .20
Death and the After-Life 3 6
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health _  7 6
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 6 0
Tale of a Physician; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology , . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCBOFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROF I’, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
MIND AND MATTER.—A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penna,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J. M.
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample copies free.
CONTENTS.
Spiritualism and Religion   37
Who Wrote Shakespeare’s Plays ? By the Rev.
W. R. Tomlinson ,,,.     38
Correspondence:—Visitors at 38, Great Russell*
street       39
The Career of a Religious Leader    40
Dr. Slade’s Visit to British Columbia    42
“ A Moorish Princess ”    42
Materialisation Phenomena Under Test Conditions.
By T. P. Barkas, F.G.S  42
Raps on the Wall. By J. A. Campbell, B.A  43
Experiments in a Hospital    44
Press Opinions about Spiritual Literature   45
Coming a Long Distance to Supper  46
Trance Tests and Clairvoyance    47
Answers to Correspondents      47
Paragraphs:—Newcastle, 38; A Materialised Spirit 46
Printed for the Proprietor by BEVHRiDaE and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents.
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bnr and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by W. H. Harrison, 33, British Museum-
street, Loudon, W.C.
