RBGlSIiEBEDAS 1 NeWSPApEB.
SN© otf ©'^YCSo^o^idS^ ^d l ^Vdii
^{re 01kst Spiritualism iu feat iritaiu-
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : xi, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: SignorjG. Parisi,VIa Della Maltonaia. ROME:
Signor Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opppsite the Villa Nazipnale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE : 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly and Co. NEWflYORK:
51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “ Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. SAN FRAN¬
CISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON : No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 349.—(Yol. XIV.—No. 18.)
LONDON: FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1879.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents!.
Private Setmcsr ., .. .. ,i ,.
‘‘ A Marked Life” .; .. .. .. ..■ ..   
Old-Fashioned Superstitions 
An Apparition ..     
Review . • .. .... ., ,. .. ,.   
Psychic Marvels ... ... .... ., .. .. .. .. .. ..
A Remarkable Case of Clairvoyance  
Spontaneous Psychological Phenomena Contrasted with
Optical Delusion .. .. , . ..     ..
Spiritualism in Leeds..    
Poetry—Address to Spring     
Correspondence—Alleged Origin of Modern Spiritualism,
“Nature’s Divine Revelations,” A Trance Seance,
Spiritualism in Glasgow .. . .. ,. .. .. ... .. •
Ghosts ..  
Sunday Services at the Steinway Hall ..  
Spirit Identity and Materialisation .. .. .. ....
Lord Vivian’s Prophetic Dream , .... ...... ..
Paragraphs—Which is the Worst ? 206 : A Coming Meeting,
207 j British Museum Lectures, 200; Soiree .. ..
205
205
206
207
207
209
210
210
211
212
212
213
214
215
216
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER :
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics
of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PEICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated
Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries throughout
the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the
Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading
and more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in
the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among
those who have published their names in connection with their
communications in its columns are Mr. C. F.Varley, C.E., F.R.S.;
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal
of Science ” (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but has,
up to the present time, expressed no decided opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace. President of the Biological Sec¬
tion of the British Association for the Advancement of Science
(1876) ; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden) ; the
Right Hon. the Countess of Caithness ; His Imperial Highness
Nicholas of Russia (Duke of Leuchtenberg) ; Mr. H. G. Atkin¬
son, F.G.S. ; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen
(formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples); Baron
Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald Massey; Le Comte
de Bullet; the Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly American
Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Parkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psycholo¬
gical Society of Great Britain ; Mr. Alexander Calder, Presi¬
dent of the British National Association of Spiritualists; the
Rev. J. Tyerman (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.);
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George
Wyld; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksa-
kof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order
of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay
’ (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C, Luxmoore ; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B,
(India); Mrs. Honeywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr,
Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George Stock, B.A. (Oxon);
Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian
Reimers; Mr. Wiliiam White (author of the “ Life of Sweden¬
borg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D. ; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D., authprof “ Unorthodox London ”;Mr. S. C. Hall, F.g.A.;
Mrs. S. O. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S. ; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C,E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M. ; Mr. C. Con¬
stant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley:
Miss Kidingbury ; Miss A. (Black well (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers ;
Mr. J. N. T. Mathese ; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr.
W. Linclsay Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other
ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom,
10s. lOd.; in the United States and Australia, 18s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris : Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2,. Lindenstrasse. Florence : Signor G. Parisi,
Via Della Maltonia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russel-street. Shanghai : Messrs. Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal
Office. Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street, San Francisco: 319,.
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W, H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 88, Great Ruasell-strcet, Leaden, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
OFFICE HOURS.
The Offices of the Association are open between the hours
of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except Sat¬
urday, when they are open between the hours of 2 p.m. and
6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR MAY.
Friday, 2nd, and each succeeding Friday.—Experi¬
mental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.-
Monday, 5th.—Fortnightiy Discussion' Mkbting at
8 p.m. “ Object Lessons in Spiritu¬
alism, and theiI, Importance.-” By
Mrs. Andrews.
Tuesday, ISi/s.-i-Soiree Gommittee at 5 p.m.
,,, , House and Offices Committee at 5.30
p.m.
,, ,, Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
„ ,, Council Meeting at 6.30 p.tn.s
Monday, \Wi.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at
8 p.m. “ Recent Researches in Spirit-
: ism.” By Desmond, G. Fitzgerald,
M. S. Tel.
Friday, 2Zrd.—Library Committee at 5.30.
- ,, S dnee Committee at 6 p.m. • *
Tuesday, 27th.—Annual General Meeting of Mem¬
bers at 6.30 p.m.
C. A. BURKE, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akebman Road, Beixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books
on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c-,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec; ; v.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
WILL HOLD
SUNDAY EVENING SERVICES ;
AT
STEINWAY HALL,
Lower Seymour-street, Portman-square, London, W.
ADMISSION FREE.
Those subscribing One Guinea are entitled to sofa stalls;
other subscribers of 10s. 6d. and 6s. are given numbered
stalls. Tickets date from April 1st to June 30th. To be
obtained from Mr. Fletcher, 4, Bloomsbury-place, W.O., and
Miss Leslie Younge, 32, Fairfax-road, N.W. Lecture at
7.30 p.m.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr.
Elmer, St. James’-stieet; and Mr. Boughton, St.George’s-rd.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the
city, by an English brother. The apartments can only ac¬
commodate four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3
per week each; or, for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two
occupy one room. Address, S.T., care of M. A. Mallett, 3,
Rue de la Cossonerie, Paris.
“ A MARKED LIFE; or, the Autobiography
ofa Clairvoyante.” By Gipsy. (Sampson Low and
Co., publishers.) For sale at No. 2, Vetnon-place, Blooms-
bury-square. Price 5s.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
ll, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mb. Seejeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent,
that move and direct the material mechanism of man. Com¬
munications as to alleged phenomena are invited by the
Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings with¬
out subscribing to or recognising any particular theory or
belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From, the 120th thousand,
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1881). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubnbb & Co. London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one- and can - asily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
, Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. J. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms 3, Ludgate Circus Bujxdjng?, London, E.C,
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “ HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, £c., &c,
post free, seven stamps.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions
of events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a
large hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemetis, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lanca¬
shire quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the
British armaments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by
which any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth
gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Annali dello SPIRITISMO in
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filatete.
Published on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
PSYOHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly.
Journal devoted to the investigation of the unexplained
phenomena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakov,
and contributed to by several German and foreign men of,
science. Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze:
London: The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Betters of Credit and Circular Notes issued. - t
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 till 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with fall particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Managef.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 2, 18?9.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Pbesident.
Alex. Calder, Esq.. 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington,
S-W.
VxCE-PBESlDBBriS.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas. Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwlck-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-
buildings, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13,
Alexandra-road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park,
W.
CouHtra.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newoastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S.. Yale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Comwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S." Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Cropland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road,
Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 6, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 69, Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton, S.W.
Glendiuning, A., Grove-road, New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square,
W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lampart-hall, Northampton.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower street, W.C.
March, R. A., Heaton Villas, 71, Greenwood road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond road, Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree terrace, Uttoxeter road.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish road, Blundel Sands, near
Liverpool.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, O., 16, Harpur street, Bloomsbury. W.C.
Pickersgill, W.C., 3, Blandford square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 47, Momington road. Regent’s park.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8, Museum Villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolf crescent, Malda vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Ann street, Cavendish
square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1*
Hereford square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W,
Withall, H,, 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Hoxobaev Tbeasubeb.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford square. South Kensington,
S.W.
Atoitobs.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobold, Esq.
Sbcbetaby.
Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
Honobabv ob CoBBESFOiromo Mbmbebs.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburgh, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdje,
Capoussou, Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, Preside o-t of the Spiritual Society at
Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach,
Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Gueldenstubb, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexander Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburgh.
The Baron von Dirchinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., WB.Tnmrmt.fm, Atlantic Co., New Jersey,
U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna. Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-
Mer.
Boboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
-James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude, Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 46, Drummond-street, Carlton,
Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoflinann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg
University, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Komerstrasse, 2B,Leipsic, Germany.
W.H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, South Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 6, Reu Neuve, des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy,
1, Paris,
Epes Sergent, Esq., Box 2,986, Boston, U.S.A.
H» T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avsnue, Brooklyn, New
York, U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre, Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Phila¬
delphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de
1’Europe, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck,
Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue de Palais, 137, Schaerbeok, Lex-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cavuga Co., New York,
U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel del’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-
square, London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul; Trieste,
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
IsaacB.Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eporjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 64, Denbign-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaje,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr, J. H., Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near
Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Berks T. Huchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavillion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H, J. Newton, Esq., 128/West 43rd-street, New York.
T. Blynton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 46 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fitz,
121, Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Fraces,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Bnxton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M.
Anton Prochaszka, Josefstaadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse,
23, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquiries into Spiritualism. Hon.
Secretary, T. Blynton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston-
lane, Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.—Mr. A. J. Smart, 22,
Moira-place—Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola Cerventes, 34, 28, Madrid.
President—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad Espirita Central de la Republica Maxicana. Presi¬
dent—Senor Refugio T Gonzalez, 7, Calle .de Almedo,
Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Columbia, South America.
President—Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BEITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading room and library, with a secre¬
tory in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries.
Seances can be attended by recommendation from a member.
For terms, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Price 6s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
MR. O. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 6. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
6, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses in
London or the provinces. Address, 36, Blurton-road, Clap-
ton-park, E.
Tl/riSS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
JLtJL 46, Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, Loudon, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o’clock.
Voluntary contributions. Private seances attended. Appli¬
cation by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and
Healing. Medical advice to ladies and children.
Terms modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of
business—Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Satur¬
days, from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, W.O.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Frank¬
lin, gives seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-
square, from 2 to 6, every day except Sunday, and every
evening from 8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engage¬
ments can be made by letter sent to the above address.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Handwriting, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients, and may be consulted daily
from 2 till 6 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
ANNIE LOOMIS, previous to withdrawal
from the Profession, can bo consulted for one month,
at 2, Vemon-place, Bloomsbury. Hours 12 to 6. Free con¬
sultation to the poor, Saturday.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21,Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
, I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of Truth
—III. The Embarkation—TV. Kepler’s Vision—V. Love
and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII. The Burial of
Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda —IX. The
Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope for
the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The Eagle of
Freedon—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI. Little Johnny—XVII.
“ Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XV1I1. My Spirit Home—XIX
“ I still Live”—XX. Life—XXI. Love-XXII. “ For a’ that”
—XXIII. Words 6’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
prophecy of V ala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle
or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The
Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price
6s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C., Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: the oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac
B. Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor ; aided by
a large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical, and scientific subjects; editorial department:
spirit message department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c. &c. Terms of subscription, in ad¬
vance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
ISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
GLAIRVOYANTE and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair; sex and age re¬
quired. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism, Specialities.
At home from 12 till 6 p.m. Patients treated at their homes
when desired 99, Park-street, Grosvenor-square,London, W.
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal deludes psycho-
logiques, fond6 par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Societe
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
By F. J. Theobaid. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM¬
PARED WITH MODERN SPITITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It
shows (we think successfully) that every form of medium-
ship, now so familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical
records of identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2. 6d. each. The
two bound in one. Is.—These books, 'consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrow¬
ing parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, ‘Vy.O.
OLKESTONE.—Comfortable Lodgings on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
jt xtf mb. xrf ^pi^temi$m+
No. 349.—Vomjjwe Fourteen; Nujviber Eiqhteejh,
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 2nd, 1879.
PRIVATE SEANCES. | [
On Wednesday night, April 16th, at a dark stance held at i)|
the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, j(j
Grosvenor-square, London, the sitters were Mrs. Gregory, !)]
Lady X—*—. (who does not wish her name to be published), nj
Miss Mattie Houghton, the trance medium; Mr. Serjeant Cox, j > 1
Mr. Annesley Mayne, Mrs. Wiseman, Miss Yanewicz, and ! > |
Mr. Harrison. Mr. C. E. Williams was the medium. The j)j
manifestations were of the ordinary description, but exceed- m
ingly powerful. The common manifestation (which we con- In
stantly describe for the benefit of new readers, who are not j j i
Spiritualists) of the flying about the room of playing m
musical instruments, while both the hands of the medium iji
were held, and off his own premises, was given with more m
than usual power. Now and then living spirit forms, i)j
illuminated from head to waist by flashing lights held in Kj
their hands, made themselves visible as they floated over the j) |
table. | (|
It was noticed that the consciousness of Mr. Williams !)|
varied with each spirit who drew power from him. When i(|
John King spoke in his powerful voice, Mr. Williams was \)\
three-parts entranced. When Peter Barry had his turn at m
speaking, Mr. Williams could keep up conversation with i)|
him, yet at times had lapses of drowsiness. When newer Ki
acquaintances still, among the spirits, manifested, Mr. |)|
Williams was in a strongly active and positive state of mind; KI
and when he did not like any of them, peremptorily told |) I
them to go away, which they were not always inclined to do. Kj
Thus those spirits who have produced manifestations through )
his mcdiumship for the longest time seem to have most Kj
power to entrance him, and this is one of the points tending j)j
to indicate their separate individuality. j (j
On Wednesday, last week, at another stance at Mrs. j
Gregory’s, Archdeacon Dunbar, Mrs. Ramsay, and Mr. m
Colman (non-professional medium) were also present. The uj
two mediums sat together, one hand of each being held by m
two responsible sitters on either side of them. At the un- k j
expected request of one of the sitters, a hand-bell on the table >1
was raised, and made to play a rough kind of tune by ham- m
mering the ceiling and the top of the table alternately, m
Yarious manifestations of the ordinary kind took place, and uj
solid objects were moved on the top of a piano in the more J)|
distant part of the double drawing-room, while all the sitters m
were in their places round the table.
“A MARKED LIFE.” . jjl
Messrs. Sampson Low and Co. have just published a book, jjj
by “ Gipsy,” entitled A Marked Life ; or, the Autobiography ‘(I
of a Clairvoyante, full of the true history of the career of a U\
mesmeric sensitive, who is well known to the readers of these j) j
pages. We quote a portion, which is interesting because of |)i
its proving that those death-bed apparitions which are so j (j
common, are sometimes seen by natural somnambulists ; also j( j
that the discovery of lost property by clairvoyance, which is ju
punishable by English Act of Parliament, is a useful power, j/|
and a scientific truth. The worst of the book is that it is j)j
anonymously written, so that independent observers cannot j j
verify the facts, nor use them for the defence of any innocent j \ i
clairvoyant, who maybe persecuted in. courts of justice by ju
ignorant plaintiffs, lawyers, and judges :— \ > j
“At five years of age I commenced to display the (j
peculiarities of my organization : somnambulism was the first (j
feature of my development. I was frequently found walking ) j
about the house at night, much to the annoyance of the family, (j
and especially my father, who tried the effect of punishment (j
in order to break me of what he was accustomed to call my
wild freaks.
“ I was entirely unconscious in my wanderings, and on
returning to my normal state would be very much ashamed
for having made a disturbance. I tried to break myself of
the habit, but found that my own will had nothing whatever
to do with the spells which would come upon me periodically.
“ On one of these occasions I walked to my mother’s bedside
after midnight, and stood shivering in the cold, pointing
with my finger to a chair in the room which once belonged
to my mother’s father, saying, * See him; there he is.’
Being asked who it was, I replied, ‘ Grandpa.’ A week
following we received the announcement of his death. The
time was compared and found to agree within an hour of the
sleep-walking apparition.
“ The verifications of my visions so disturbed my father that
he one night, in a moment of anger, threw a pitcher of cold
water over me while I was unconsciously walking through
his room. I can never describe the effect of this heartless
bath. It almost killed me. I was seized with the most
frightful convulsions, and a neighbouring physician had to
be called to relieve the spasms which prostrated my senses.
“ My habit of wandering about in sleep became the talk of
the country round, and I was discussed among the settlers as
a child possessed of the evil one. My father was in the habit
of turning the subject off jocosely, with the remark that it
all came of bringing a child into the world in an Indian
settlement, he being unable to find any other solution of the
singular phenomenon.
“ My school life commenced at this time, and with it a change
in my sight-seeing.
“ My father had a valuable Durham cow which pastured
in a field not far from where we lived; as was the custom in
the new settlements, this cow had a bell attached to her neck.
One evening the cow could not be found, and a diligent search
failed to reveal where she had wandered. My father, thinking
that this would afford a good test of my powers, said, ‘ Come,
Gipsy, tell me where Bess is.’
“ Without a moment’s hesitation I instinctively put my
hand to my eyes, and pressing upon them, I saw the cow a
long distance from the pasture, with her bell off.
“ I gave the direction she had taken, and described minutely
the spot where she would be found. My father, having little
confidence in what I said, resolved to follow my directions.
The animal was found as I had described, minus the bell.
“An incident now occurred which brought me into extensive
notice :—Next door to my father’s house there lived a Mr.
R , who was the parent of a beautiful boy, five years of
age. One summer morning the child was missing; the
village was searched, and every effort failed to discover what
had become of him. He was last seen at ten o’clock in the
morning, in the front yard, playing with his toys.
“ When I returned from school in the afternoon, the father
of the child, in a frantic state of mind, came to our house and
asked me if I could tell them where to find ‘ Josie.’ I put
my hand to my eyes as I had done before, and to my horror
I saw the child lying at the bottom of the cistern—dead.
“ The child was thus found, and I saw his body when he
was taken out. His bright, innocent face had a sweet, childish
look, and his flaxen curly hair hung over his dimpled shoulders.
The little limbs were stiff and cold, and in one of his hands
he grasped a toy, while the other was thrust into his pocket.
“ The impression it left upon my mind time has failed to
destroy. I resolved never to make another attempt at seeing,
and my nerves received a severe shock.”
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory has been unwell for a week from a sudden
attack of illness which caused some uneasiness to her friends, but she is
now getting better.
206
The SPiRtTtralisT.
May 2, 1879.
OLD-FASHIONED SUPERSTITIONS.
Nineteenth century bustle and scepticism are fast elbow¬
ing out of the way all the old-fashioned superstitions of our
childhood. Not only are we amazed and indignant when we
read of the Russian moujik burning old men and women for
witchcraft—a pastime we gave up in the days of the Stuarts
—but we have even brought ourselves to look on with
complacency while the respectable ghosts of the days of Peel,
or even Palmerston, are being frightened away into their own
quiet ghostland. Fast on the wane is the interest that used
to be taken in the vagaries of our restless ancestors, and a
wearied incredulity follows the narration of the eccentric
doings of the beautiful lady dressed in white, with the pale
face and the fair hair, or the stout old gentleman with the
plum-coloured inexpressibles, who will be always on the trot.
Yet there was a time when the family ghost in many respect¬
able families used to be considered quite as much part and
parcel of the old house as the old oak trees that grew up with
his history, or the old walls that have grown grey as they
watched for generations his eccentric revels. His portrait
in the picture gallery was invested with a deeper respect than
that with which we scanned the lineaments of his compeers
around him, and of all the branches of the family tree, that
from which the ghostly generation sprang was most interest¬
ing to us. Then, the periodical wanderings of the visitor
from the world of spirits were sworn to by such a crowd of
unimpeachable witnesses. He or she was recognised by the
time-honoured garb that no fashion effected and no custom
changed. All the sleepless years the beautiful countess dis¬
turbed her posterity with her midnight peregrinations she
never dispensed with that trailing white satin robe whose
awful frou-frou used to curdle the blood in the veins of the
young people of many generations. After centuries of dissi¬
pation out of bed old Sir Marmaduke’s doublet was as irre¬
proachable as on the first night he ever donned it; his lace
ruffles as white and spotless; and, though nights of chill and
damp must have sadly tried it, the feather of his cavalier hat
ever stoutly maintained its curl.
And if a love of myths and marvels, once"as strongly im¬
pregnated in the Teutonic as in the Latin races, used to dis¬
arm the criticism of tolerably educated men and women not
so many years ago, and make them view with indulgence
rather than scoffing the tales and traditions of the enchanted
world, what wonder can it be that the ignorant peasant, living
far from the stirring life of cities and business, and possess¬
ing naturally more imagination than common sense, retains
still longer his ghostly friends and acquaintances? In
mountainous countries especially, where the phenomena of
nature are more remarkable and more curious, people
naturally turn more kindly to superstitions of all kinds. The
woody defile knows its nocturnal visitant, the waterfall that
trips down the hill has its disembodied protector, the weird
mountain peak its disagreeable witch, or, it may possibly be,
its benignant and agreeable fairy. Usually, however, in the
interpretation of the vulgar, the visits from the world of
spirits are pregnant with an unpleasant spirit of
prophecy. Their idea is, or used to be, that the ghost only
comes to beat up recruits. For instance, in many parts of
Wales there used to exist—it may not have quite died out
yet—a strange superstitious belief in what the peasants called
<f corpse candles,” or “ dead men’s lights.” Some one was sure
to be called away prematurely, it was said, when these mys¬
terious lights were seen to hover and flicker. Old Richard
Baxter, by his own showing, thoroughly believed in these
disagreeable phenomena, and he has inserted, as most true and
authentic, a story of this apparition in his quaint and curious
“ Certainty of the World of Spirits,” which, he tells us
himself, was “written for the confusion and conviction
of all Atheists and Sadducees.” “ Being about the age of
fifteen,” says Baxter, “dwelling at Lanlyar, late at night
some neighbours saw one of these candles hovering up and
down along the river bank until they were weary in behold¬
ing. At last they left it so and went to bed. A few weeks
after came a proper damsel from Montgomeryshire to see her
friends, who dwelt on the other side of the river Ystinik, and
thought to ford the river at that very place where the light
was seen. But being dissuaded by some lookers-on to adven¬
ture on the water, which was high by reason of the flood, she
!j walked up and down the river bank, even as the aforesaid
| candle did, waiting for the falling of the water, which at last
| she took, but too soon for her, for she was drowned therein.”
However, if it is amazing to us that a divine of Baxter’s capa-
U bilities should have had a childish and confiding belief in
1“ corpse-candles,” and that a matter-of-fact, dry lawyer and
judge like Hale should have feared witchcraft, and burned
witches, what possible excuse can we make to ourselves for
our folly in adhering scrupulously as we do, many of us, in
these days of science and scepticism, to superstitious avoidances
which rest on even less solid foundation than a belief in ghosts
or witches? There is hardly a country in Europe, save
11 Turkey, where there does not reign unchecked that ridiculous
(j dislike to making one of thirteen at dinner. We have
I heard that at Paris there positively existed at one time a
society called the “ Quartorzieme,” whose raison d'etre and
business it was to supply this deficiency of the dinner-table as
it occurred. Of course the idea is that one of the thirteen
will die within the year, or, to go more fully into the super-
Jj stition, that death will make the fourteenth, and mark his
)| prey to carry away with him to the land of spirits. As
(| Beranger sings so aptly :—
); “ Dieux! mes amis nous sommes treize a table,
(I Et devant rnoi le sel est repandu.
(j Nombre fatal! Prdsage epouvautable!
La mort accourt: Je frissonne dperdu.”
(| The gay Parisian, however, thinks it better on reflection to
?! look upon the unpleasant situation from an Epicurean point
(j of view. As the Egyptian regarded the coffin carried
)! round at the feast as a powerful hint to make the best of his
(i opportunities, and to revel all the more merrily because life was
) I short, so the Frenchman took the visit of the ghostly fourteenth
(| merely as a warning of the brevity of time, and that we must
) | all die some day. So he ends his chanson of “ Treize a Table”
{| after this fashion :—
(| “ Ab! Tliomme en vain se rejette en arriere
j I Lorsque son pied sent le froid du cerceuil.
)! Gais passagers, un Hot inevitable,
) | Livrons Pesquif qu’il doit conduire au port,
7 i Si Dieu nous compte. Ah! restons treize h table;
(j Non, mes amis, je ne crains plus la Mort.”
>| The Globe j April 19th.
7 j A “ Spiritual Lyceum ” is held at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-
t i Street, Portman Square, every Sunday at eleven a.m.
Which is the Worst ?—It is a broad question whether knaves or
) | well-intentioned fools do most mischief in the world. A specimen of the
/ i latter class of human beings is thus described in an American newspaper:—
u “ At an early stage of her term of servitude she gives evidence of the posses-
) i sion of what may be dehcately described as intelligence of a peculiar order.
> i Encountered upon the back stairs, bearing buckets of water, she explains
/; that she was ordered to turn the water off from the bath-room the night
(j before, that she has received no order to turn it on in the morning, and
(| that, therefore, in order to fill the sewers she must depend upon the faucets
) | in the kitchen. Her explanation is received approvingly, mental reference
) | being had to the heroic act of the well-known Casablanca, and the less well-
(| known vigil of General Havelock’s son upon London Bridge. Not so much
Vi satisfaction is manifested when a casual request to light the gas in the
) I drawing-room when she closes the shutters is interpreted as an order to
) | start every burner in that apartment at its full capacity, especially as the
(j careful closing of the drawing-room doors, joined to the absence of the
(| family from home during the evening, results in the brilliant illumination
! remaining in full blast until the next morning—to the material advantage of
the gas company. Several amiable indiscretions of somewhat similar
character lead easily and naturally to the development of a profound convic¬
tion on the part of the administrative head of the house that the new hired
| girl is little better than, as he himself expresses it, ‘a natural bom fool.’
| The executive head of the house, whose gentle nature resists such harsh
{i phraseology, and who still bears in mind a lively remembrance of the old
(I hired girl’s cyclonic and volcanic ways, puts in the extenuating plea that
) | even if she is a little stupid sometimes she is so good-natured, cheerful and
) I willing that her errors of judgment should be forgiven her. Things go along
(| upon this basis of equitable compensations for some time. The new hired
j I girl’s good nature, cheerfulness and willingness bring her forgiveness for
j j telling a formal caller: ‘ She’s not at home, ma’am'; she’s making jelly in
I the kitchen for the party to-morrow, ma’am; ’ for putting the claret in ice,
(i on the occasion of the party thus referred to, because that was what she had
(| been ordered to do with the champagne; for assaulting with bath brick and
i j a rag the silver that she had been told to clean, and for a whole string of
) | like performances, calculated to work confusion and breed trouble. Finally,
I when she leaves the bed-rooni windows open during a driving rain storm,
! because she had been told that the bed-rooms are to be aired every day, it
becomes evident that she must go. She takes her dismissal, as she has
taken the various ratings bestowed upon her for her misdeeds, with placid
good nature. She is docile, willing, cheerful to the very last. Calmly,
amiably, the new hired girl, with the dewy freshness of her newness still
[ 1 upon her, packs up her bag like the Arab, and as silently steals away.’*
May 2, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
207
AN APPARITION.
Those apparitions which are spiritually seen, and are not
present in materialised form, are usually observed by the
sensitive to develop from mist. They are nevertheless
frequently real, for they sometimes give verifiable news:—
(7b the Editor of the ‘ ‘ Religio- Philosophical Journal.'*')
I am again enabled, by my mother’s courtesy, to respond to
your standing invitation to submit facts, and enclose one of
her experiences, hitherto unpublished. Alfred Bull.
I was sitting in my room, my oldest boy (now thirty years
of age) a baby on my lap, a servant engaged in removing the
tea-things, and feeling very happy. I was humming a tune.
Suddenly I noticed in a corner of the room a small oval mass
of misty whiteness. Shaking my finger warningly at the
girl to silence her, and looking intently at this strange object,
it rapidly increased in size until several feet in height; grow¬
ing gradually dense and more opaque, and slowly opening,
it revealed the glorified form of my dear sister. I say glorified,
since language utterly fails to convey any idea of that lovely
wondrous vision.
She had died in her twenty-third year, of lingering consump¬
tion, ten years before; and had borne great suffering with
Christian fortitude, joyfully looking for speedy release. Un¬
selfish and lovable, a beautiful soul fitly clothed, she gradually
wasted under the fell disease, and died at length in my arms.
But now I saw her again—all traces of lingering disease had
vanished ; she looked radiantly beautiful as, holding back the
surrounding envelope, she leaned towards me, the dear sweet
eyes gazing into mine with a look of unutterable love. She
wore a long, loose robe of dazzling whiteness, hanging about
her in graceful folds, and there emanated from her a mellow,
soft light, making the encrusting shell glitter like crystal.
So gloriously beautiful was the appearance that I could
not gaze upon it without pain, nor do I think that natural
eyes could have seen it; but so soon as I had thoroughly
realized this angelic presence she gradually drew the en¬
circling mass about her, and ever steadfastly regarding me, was
gradually hidden from view ; the luminous envelope clouded,
darkened slowly, shrank, and disappeared.
My incoherent exclamations of delight and wonder fri ght-
ened the girl, who had seen nothing save my own wrapt gaze ;
but I had seen my sister, and I shall see her again in our
heavenly home, where there is no more sorrow, no more
parting, no more death. Elizabeth Bull.
London, England.
A Coming Meeting.—On Tuesday, the 27fch of this month, the
managers of the National Association of Spiritualists will meet their
members at the general annual meeting, after the lapse of about a
year since the members at large have had an opportunity of taking part
in the affairs of the organization. Any members who wish to improve
the system of management, are required by the rules to give notice of
their motions to the Secretary, at least fourteen days before the
meeting. The only way to do much good with the present organiza¬
tion is to reduce the enormous size of the Council, so that those only
who have rendered good public service to the cause of Spiritualism
need be elected to seats on it. As it is, not a few persons have been
put on to fill up the complement, each one nominated by some
personal friend, while almost unknown to the members at large. The
“ working” members of the Council—some twelve or fifteen persons
—who govern the whole of the Association, are about four-fifths com¬
posed of those who have rendered no public services to Spiritualism.
Only one-third the Council goes out of office at each election, this time
leaving most of the inefficient people still among the active managers,
and the members are almost forced every year to re-appoint all those
who offer themselves for reinstatement, because the Council is so
large that perhaps a dozen additional persons would have to be nomi¬
nated, to swell the list of candidates to a size sufficient to bring
about a contested election. To thus swell out the list other
Spiritualists unknown for good public work would have to be
nominated, for our leading public men are not so very numerous, and
several of them would refuse to serve, if asked, unless the Council is
improved by its reconstruction and the reduction of its numbers to, say,
twenty altogether. It is unprecedented that a body of between three
and four hundred members only should have a Council of about eighty,
like a new volunteer regiment in which every fifth man wants to be a
“ kurnel.” It is not encouraging to see the recent quitting either of
the Council or of the Association by such members as Mr. C. C.
Massey, Mr. Martin Smith, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. G. C. Joad,
Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. Charles Blackburn, Mrs. Lowe, Mr. Fabyan Dawe,
the Rev. W. W. Newbould, and Mr. Harrison, and to know that the
management of the Association is in the hands of a few working
niembers of Council, about one-fifth only of whom are well known to
the members at large, or on the ground of past public services have
any right to a voice in the management at all. Those Spiritualists
who know good members to put on the Council, should now obtain
their consent, and at once nominate them by letter to the Secretary,
) i The Text-Book of Astrology. By Alfred J. Pearce, Author
of The Weather Guide Book, etc. Vol. I. Genethlialogy.
jl London: Cousins and Co., 3, York Street, Covent Garden,
| 1879.
No apology is needed for introducing the latest, and per-
| i haps, the most elaborate of the many text-books of astrology
(j to the readers of The Spiritualist. These columns have
) j occasionally testified to a very wide-spread interest in the
(\ subject, which is also known to engage the attention of many
) i who are in sympathy, if not in avowed connection, with our
\ | own movement.
) | Astrology, like Spiritualism, challenges belief upon the
s: evidences of experience ; and the proofs which it can adduce
)! have the advantage of being less easily gainsaid or neglected
j | than those which rest upon the testimony of observers. The
)i general public is more impressed by a single prediction
J| unmistakably verified than by the best attested facts of
) | spirit agency. The predictions accomplished by the deaths of
Ji Victor Emmanuel and the Princess Alice last year, and those
)j relating to the Isandlana disaster and the Dinas Colliery
J i explosion have obtained a wide publicity. Even “ Science ”
/ \ itself, notwithstanding Mr. Proctor’s recent phillipic, is
J; becoming thoughtful on the subject, and the Royal Astrono-
/1 mical Society has already a Paper, by one of its own members,
J before it, dealing with the relation of the movements of
)i planets in their orbits to the prevalence of mundane epi-
j demies.* At the hands of scholars, at least, astrology should
) \ be protected from insult by its fathomless antiquity, its uni-
J; versality, and by the great names of its believers in ancient,
h mediaeval, and even modem times. Of these, Mr. Pearce
J | gives an imposing list in his interesting introduction to the
! volume now under review. He quotes a passage from an
article in the Saturday Review some years ago, which speaks
of the countenance afforded to Zadkiel by “ the many wise,
great, and learned of the land,” and which adds, that “ Society
J i believes in astrology.” Without going quite so far as this, it
)| must be admitted that the prejudice is less, and certainly far
t \ less offensively expressed, than that against which Spiritualists
jj have to contend. But the latter will be wise to perceive that
JI the recognition of whatever truth there is in astrology cannot
)j fail to prepare the public mind for the reception of facts
c | which gives the lie more directly to the negations of mater ial-
) | ism. Next to Spiritualism itself, it is impossible to conceive
(I a science of experience more repugnant than astrology to the
) | shallow “ enlightenment ” that rejects even facts of the senses,
(! when these cannot be accommodated to the sensual under-
I standing.' It is certain that any real explanation of celestial
influences on the constitution, dispositions, and affairs of mun¬
dane beings would carry us into a very deep philosophy, and
one which would only be rightly appreciated in relation to
>| still higher truths. That such a philosophy has always
j i existed students of Occultism and Theosophy need not to be
; i reminded. To Spiritualists generally, such terms as “ Astral
J| Light,” “Astral Body,” and so on, are of mysterious import;
) | but at least it is vaguely understood that the recognition of a
Jl common life-element, and some insight into the sympathies
) that pervade the universe, might help us to a better under-
J; standing of many of the phenomena which cannot be referred
) I simply, and without explanation or qualification, to the
JI agency of spirits. As a system of divination, astrology stands
) I in significant relation to the prophetic dreams, occult warn-
J | ings, and “ inexplicable ” coincidences with which our records
) | abound. That the future cannot be foreseen and communi-
J | cated without being in some sense predetermined, appears an
)! inference from which there is no escape. To the
Jl philosophy which represents time as phenomenal, the
h mere condition of conscious intelligence—and perhaps not
J| even this in higher stages of development—the reproach
(j of fatalism—has no meaning or application. But for a
J| completely satisfactory answer to it, we must have
JI recourse to the theosophic doctrine, that freedom belongs to
Ji a sphere above the astral and elementary, to the infinite
(j spirit of which all finite intelligences are partakers, and to
* See a letter in the Pall Mall Gazette, March 7th, 1879, on “Epidemics and the Stars,”
by Mr. R. G. Jenkins, F.R.A.S.
208
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 2, 1879.
wkich they may raise and unite themselves, controlling by
its sovereignty the inferior regions of their microcosm. The
true human will, when found, proves always to be one with
the Divine order, standing far above the necessities of Nature,
which it may control or with which it has no concern. It is
better, surely, to recognise and define the limits of necessity
than to go on confounding the real with the apparent or
phenomenal life, ignoring all in the latter which we feel to
be inconsistent with the former. The operations of Provi¬
dence, the efficacy of prayer, and the potency of the magical
will are all saved by this distinction, since these belong to
the higher region of spirit, which has sovereign authority
over the lower order. The highest religious interests of man
have nothing to fear from astrology, which, through its
greatest adepts, has always reverently and rationally acknow¬
ledged them.
Even for those who desire only to obtain a general know¬
ledge of the subject, or at most to be able to erect and read
an astrological figure, Mr. Pearce’s book may be recom¬
mended as easily intelligible, and containing much interesting
matter besides the processes that will be chiefly useful to the
student whose aims are more ambitious. To the latter it is
invaluable. The author is well known as the friend and
pupil for many years of the late Capt. Morrison, the renowned
“ Zadkiel.” But this work, the fruit of prolonged study and
experience, is undoubtedly a great advance upon the “ Gram¬
mar ” of the master, which has so long been the text-book of
students. Indeed, if Mr. Pearce’s second volume, which will
be devoted to horary and state astrology, is equal in merit
to that now published, which is confined to genethlialogy,
there are but few other works on the subject of at all equal
magnitude and pretension which can be pronounced still
indispensable to the astrologer’s library. Mr. Pearce gives a
list of these.* One pf them, Wilson’s “Dictionary of Astro-
logy,” must always remain in high estimation as a book of
reference: it is difficult to obtain and ought to be repub¬
lished. Wilson did much to purify the science from adven¬
titious absurdities and corruptions, and in this he is followed
by Mr. Pearce with critical discrimination ; for the work of
the latter is eclectic, adopting the best conclusions, accord¬
ing to the light of his independent judgment and experience,
from many authors It is enriched with many interesting
notices of nativities, illustrating the different rules and
doctrines of the science. There is-something like a real
attempt at inductive verification in the many cases he gives
us, with the view of justifying some of Ptolemy’s teachings
from the doubts that have been thrown upon them. Such
are those showing the astrological “ affliction ” of the sun or
moon at birth, followed by the death, within a few years, of
the father or mother. If astrological indications were inva¬
riably associated with the events alleged to be denoted, or so
frequent as to be out of all proportion to the expectation
resulting from the calculation of chances, the pretensions of
the science would be established beyond possibility of doubt
or cavil. But Mr. Pearce has apparently given us only
selected cases, and it would be necessary to know what pro¬
portion these bear to others in his experience which are not
accordant, before deciding on the significance due to them.
Mr. Pearce respects authority, but never defers to it without
evidence; and to much of modern practice he is so decidedly
adverse that it is possible his work may encounter opposi¬
tion from many who believe that methods he rejects are
sanctioned by their own experience. It is to the confusion
of the doctrine of nativities with horary astrology that he
ascribes much of the discredit into which the science has
fallen. Horary astrology is said to be merely symbolical,
whereas the more dignified branch of the science deals with
real causes. As to both of these propositions we should like
to know a little more upon principle and from experience
before deciding. Wilson, Zadkiel, and Mr. Pearce, agree in
scepticism as to the significance of the “ Houses ” (except the
“ Angles ”) in nativities: and this is a very important
question, because to these mundane divisions are respectively
appropriated the different affairs and relations of life. Accord¬
ing to Mr. Pearce, such considerations are only proper in
* The reviewer would add a recommendation of the little hand-book published by
“ Raphael ” last year, to which he has been indebted in his early studies, though doubtless
it contains seme heresies, if we are to take Mr. Pearce’s principles as the standard of astro¬
logical orthodoxy.
K j Horary Astrology, as a system of Divination, in which
|)j nothing is professed to be known of the true causes of
j(| events. Experience must decide ; but it seems ante-
m cedently probable that the principles of horary astrology
j(j are not arbitrary, but have some natural relation to those
! which should govern the judgment of nativities.
Hi To the practical student there is perhaps no more conclusive
in proof of astral and zodiacal influence than that afforded
H i by the conformity in type, of personal appearance, and
|)| manners to the descriptions given by astrologers from the
Hi earliest times, as appropriate to the several signs and
I planets’ rising or ruling. We can certainly classify people
physiognomically, and were the attention of a Lavater turned
to astrology he would probably be able to tell at a glance in
i most cases under what sign and planetary positions a man
was born. To ordinary judgment and experience this is only
possible when the physical characteristics are extremely
marked and decided, the prevailing influences being often as
complicated as there are diversities of face and figure even
i (| within the same type. But sometimes the appearance is such
!as to authorise a confident judgment of the ascending sign.*
It rarely happens, however, that the aspect of the heavens in
j a nativity or a “ question ” presents such clear and consistent
| testimonies as to make the application of the rules of the
i)| astrologer other than a very difficult exercise of his fallible
1(1 judgment. To one who has learned, not to master, but to
H j appreciate the complexity of the subject, the wonder is that
111 professional astrologers succeed so often as they do, not that
i > | they so often fail.
Mr. Pearce’s book is a sufficient refutation of tho notion
|) i that astrology, in these days, is addressed to the uneducated
I (| classes. The mathematical processes required for astrological
111 computations are not, it is true, very abstruse, but to sup-
Kj pose a wholly ignorant person being at all attracted to the
j Jl subject by the practical part of the volume before us provokes
H i a smile. Mr. Pearce assumes all his pupils to be able to work
ij! by logarithms, and does not condescend to repeat the for-
Hj mulas given by Wilson and Zadkiel, involving more labour,
j/j but likely to be more commonly intelligible. But, in other re-
|) | spects, the student will find facilities for working now for the
|; j first time afforded him. Those who have frequently undergone
; (I the exasperating drudgery of computing proportions of Ascen-
I / j sional Difference will welcome the table on the last page of
I! this book as a real relief. The appendix contains other rules
and information important to the beginner, and not to be
found in earlier treatises. The arrangement of the tables of
| houses for London and Liverpool is also an improvement. It
| is, however, a pity that no tables for Scotland or Ireland are
1(1 inserted ; and it is to be hoped that these will be added in a
Hi future edition.
Criticism of Mr. Pearce’s methods of directing would be
H| out of place, addressed to non-astrological readers, even if the
| (I present writer were at all competent to venture on it. More
!) I theoretical amplitude in this part of the book might, perhaps,
I (| have been expected, and would certainly have been acceptable
|| from one who must have meditated on the foundations of the
science so long and so deeply as the author. At least we
might have looked for some explanation beyond the two lines
which introduce to us directions so apparently paradoxical
as the “ converse zodiacal.” Mr. Pearce is not the inventor
| of these, but they do not appear in the more ancient authori-
| ties, and Wilson and Zadkiel are silent with regard to them,
j If defensible on the ground of experience, there is nothing to
I be objected to them but the name. All converse directions
I are mundane, and refer to the rotation of the earth, whereas
i zodiacal directions imply motions in the zodiac, which cannot
| be “ converse,” except when retrograde.
There is some danger of astrologers directing according to
Hi imaginary motions in their search for appropriate “ arcs.”
|; i The multiplicity of “ directions ” tends rather to impair the
Hi evidence of their effects than to strengthen it. So many
j/j minor aspects (to which, yet, the most important effects are
Hj often ascribed) have been added to those recognised by
j) j Ptolemy as to suggest that modern professors have provided
j s j themselves with rather too many chances of being right—
I) I * Even the present writer has occasionally succeeded in this. In one instance the test
j \! was especially opportune, as afforded in the person of a friend whose raillery on the subject
j \ I he was at the moment undergoing. 'The chances against success as mere " coincidence ” were
{\ i about nine to one.
May 2, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
209 i
after the event. In most cases the power of these directions
must be too feeble, and their significance too obscure to make
them worth calculation.*
On the important point of the measure of time for events,
Mr. Pearce departs from the method of Placidus (prescribed
also by Zadkiel, in the “ Grammar ”), and takes every degree
of “ arc ” to signify a year of time, without converting the
whole into right ascension, by addition 'of that of the sun
at birth. This, again, is a matter which only experience can
determine, and the experience of Mr. Pearce has been very
extensive. But there are few objections to the science so
difficult to answer as that experience should have left any
doubt or discrepancy among authorities upon such a point.
The most probable explanation of the uncertainty is the in¬
terference of subordinate astrological influences, such as
lunations, transits, and secondary directions, in hastening or
retarding the effects of the primary directions.
But with respect to the time of events, we encounter a
question more profoundly perplexing to our ignorance,
though it is not one that the practical astrologer, who relies
on experience, is bound to answer. We speak of the “effects”
of directions, as if there were a real coincidence in time
between the formation of an aspect, zodiacal or mundane,
and the corresponding event in life. Yet a few months,
weeks, days, or hours suffice for the motion to the aspect that
is said to “ cause ” an event which may be distant fifty years
or more. Evidently, if astrology is the truth the writer
believes it to be, it is a truth that can only be fully compre¬
hended when the most mystic correspondences of time and
nature are revealed to the enlightened reason. Yet the
evidence of “ transits ” makes it certain that there is a tem¬
poral coincidence also. What can be more astonishing and
inexplicable, in our present state of knowledge, than that the
transit of Saturn, for example, over the zodiacal degree, or
over an aspect to the degree in which the moon happened to
be, say thirty years, some months, days, and hours ago, should
injuriously, perhaps fatally, affect the health or family of a
person then bom ? Yet this was what was predicted, and
unhappily verified, in the case of the Princess Alice of Hesse, f
The appearance of this work is contemporaneous with the
formation of an Astrological Society, and both are significant
of the spirit of inquiry which creates a demand for such
assistance. That Astrology, even now, is a science of such
imperfect application to individual and public uses need not
discourage students who will bring to it modern habits of
precise and systematic investigation. Whether the inductive
method will ever alone suffice to apply practically and with
anything approaching to uniform success a system of such
extreme complexity, may well be doubted. Yet accurate
observation, and generalisations based upon sufficient evidence,
should place its fundamental principles beyond the reach ot
controversy. There should be a division of labour among
astrologers, as among the devotees of every other science.
Statistics should be collected, and comparative analysis should
be resorted to for the purposes of scientific induction. The
public would greatly assist by keeping accurate records of
times of birth, and making them available to students. If
every parent who reads these lines would notify to the
Secretary of the Astrological Society the exact time of a child’s
birth as it occurs, and the fact of its death, should this ensue,
sufficient data for one most important judgment—the pro¬
bability of life beyond infancy—might soon be collected.
Those who wish to know “ the truth about Astrology ” should
render to investigators the important assistance which it is
thus in their power to give. In the meanwhile, if they
would see its present evidences, its authorities and processes,
as set forth by a thoroughly competent, experienced, and
educated adept, they cannot do better than read the work of
which a very inadequate notice has been here attempted.
0. 0. Massey.
Temple.
* The writer has before him his own nativity, calculated by a most accomplished artist,
and containing 237 primary directions, of which 109 are of past (if any observable) opera¬
tion. Some of the more powerful are fairly coincident with their appropriate events, but,
as to most, the effects would not be traceable (supposing them to have existed) unless,
perhaps, in connection with transits of the same time and nature.
t A recent transit of Saturn over the place of the moon agreeing with a primary direction
in the writer’s nativity was coincident with a rather serious illness of a near female relative;
an astrologer having warned him, a year before, that this would be a time of danger to
such relatives. An inspection of the lady's horoscope showed that the moon was similarly
situated at her birth.
] j PSYCHIC MARVELS.
j)j “Enter into thine own soul, and marvel there,” says
] |! Isidore. The transcendent psychic powers of man furnish a
jj| subject for life-long study and wonder. These powers have
i) | been proved beyond all doubt. The faculty of clairvoyance,
h j for example, has been so tested that experienced investigators
j > ] know it to be a fact that does not admit of a question.
But what is clairvoyance ? The word is used to comprehend
ni a large class of phenomena, psychometry, and prevision, as
!(i well as that clear-seeing which can read a page of a closed
| j | book or describe what is going on in an adjoining house.
|<j Still the process by which this is done is a mystery. Mr.
i) i Parkhurst, of Brooklyn, N.Y., takes a letter from the waste-
! (i basket of a mercantile friend, tears it into strips and squares,
I ^! shakes the pieces together, puts them into an envelope which
! (; he seals and takes to Miss Fancher. He had not read a word
j j j of the letter. The blind girl takes it, passes her hands over
|(j the envelope several times, calls for paper and pencil, and
m writes the letter verbatim, the seal not having been broken.
!' i Mr. Parkhurst opens it, pastes the torn fragments of the
! i \ letter together, and finds that Miss Fancher had made a
I (| literal copy of the original.
By what process was this done? Does clear-seeing (or
! (| clairvoyance) rightly describe it ? Ideas, visions, previsions,
i j I forms of language, and phantom facsimiles of writing seem
| (| to start up and present themselves to the clairvoyant's mind
|)| precisely as, in an effort of retrospection, bygone scenes,
| (! words, and experiences come before the normal memory.
|; i Whence they come we do not know; and whence knowledge
I (| comes to the clairvoyant he does not know. Often it is pre-
| j | sented to him by emblems. For instance, we once wrote the
| (! name Bush with a question adjoined, in a list of departed
j) | friends; it was so concealed by being rolled in a compact
| (| pellet that it was impossible for the medium to read by his
] \ | normal sense what was on the paper. He did not even touch
|| it; but said: “ I see a bush, and on it is a scroll, on which
j) I are written these words.” And the words he gave were an
| j answer to our question.
i Was this a simple act of clairvoyance on the medium’s part,
j! or did it involve an impression produced on his mind by some
||j independent spirit?
111 The theory has often been broached by thoughtful seers
111 and investigators that there must be spiritual reliquiae, relics,
m or doubles, accompanying all our thoughts, words, writings,
I /1 and acts; that inanimate objects have their spiritual counter-
111 parts. If this theory be true, does it not help us to explain
j J | some of the marvels of psychometry and clairvoyance ? A
|| sensitive enters a room, quite ignorant that it has been the
111 scene of a murder or some other tragic occurrence. Instantly
II j a sense of oppression or horror is felt by her, and all at once
I) | the historical fact is presented to her mind—how she cannot
j |) say. By what process is this brought about ? What is there to
I (I awaken these thoughts ? Is it effected by some communicating
III spirit unconsciously to the recipient ? or are there in the room
II i spiritual reliquiae which produce the impression ? — Religio-
||i Philosophical Journal.
I(: British Muskum Lectures.—Dr. Carter Blake’s class at the British.
III Museum, last week, was largely attended. On Thursday, 24th April, an
j) i address was delivered by Mr. S. Birch, LL.D., keeper of Egyptian Antiqui-
I) i ties, on “The Mythology and Domestic Life of the Egyptians.” The learned
i (| keeper entered at length into the ritual which illustrated the Egyptian belief
; (| in the destination of the soul after death, and of the purgatorial states of
|): the dead, and gave a copious series of examples of the invocations used to
|) i propitiate patron saints or tutelary divinities. He further pointed out the
111 reverence which the Egyptians entertained towards the dead body, which
| (i was regarded as the seat of the departed soul, and contrasted the Egyptian
j J | practices with those of Greece and Rome. On the same day, Dr. Carter
111 Blake spoke on the “ Domestic Animals of Egypt,” and Dr. R. S. Charnock
| /i on “ Etruscan Alphabets.” On Monday, April 28th, Dr. Carter Blake
j l\ spoke at length on “The Types of Yerteorate Animals,” selecting his chief
| (| examples from the class of birds, and illustrating some conclusions in favour
| ji of the doctrine of derivation, and opposed to the theory of Darwinism. Mr.
I) | W. Carruthers, keeper of the Botanic Department, then spoke on “ Botany ”
I < i within his own gallery. On Wednesday, April 30th, Mr. St. Chad
11 Boscawen, M.A., addressed the audience on the “ Assyrian Collections in
n j the British Museum,” and Dr. Carter Blake (in consequence of the indis-
I:' I position of Professor Owen, C.B., E.R.S.) on “ Palaeontology.” This course
| of lectures will be continued after Whitsuntide. Many Spiritualists and
! others were at the course. Among the listeners were the Rev. E. Nolte,
1 D.D.; the Rev. E. Sole, Professor of History at St. Mary’s College, Oscott;
I the Rev. W. W. Newbould, M.A., E.L.S.; Mrs. Lowe, Miss Kislingbury,
i Captain Yerney, R.N.; Dr. Black, Major S. B. I. Owen, F.L.S., and others.
210
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 2, 1879.
A BEMAUKABLE CASE OF CLAIRVOYANCE.
(To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”)
Sir,—May I ask you to give publicity to the following
incident ?
In.the beginning of August, last year, I happened to be
travelling with my daughters through the fjords of Chris¬
tiana, in a steamer. The Christiana. We had for our fellow-
traveller a young lady, who, in spite of her French name,
spoke English with noticeable purity, and who acted as inter¬
preter between my daughters and the stewards of the vessel
several times during our voyage.
The night before arriving at our destination, the young
lady joined us on deck, and somehow the conversation turned
upon the subject of Spiritualism, which I, of course, de¬
nounced as one of the great delusions of modern civilisation.
Much to my surprise and disappointment, the young lady
laughingly asked me not to denounce it too severely, for she
was one of its followers.
* On arriving in Christiana I lost sight of our young friend,
but returning from our tour through the mountains we had
some days to spare in the capital, and there I had the pleasure
of being introduced to our sometime fellow-voyager, Miss
d’Esp^rance.
Again the tabooed subject cropped up, and I discovered
that Miss d’Esperance was also a clairvoyant medium.
To cut the story short, a stance was proposed and arranged
at the house of my friend Mr. John Heyerdahl. The room
was slightly darkened, and the young lady immediately de¬
scribed the form and features of a man who stood near me.
I had some recollection of a person of that description,
although I knew of no dead friend to whom it would apply.
She afterwards wrote, as nearly as I can remember, these
words, “ The man says his name is Felix Marston; he died six
weeks ago, in India, of sunstroke.”
Now I happened at that moment to have a letter in my
pocket from a friend of that name, and a suspicion flashed
across my mind that Miss d’Esperance must have seen it.
Still, I knew in a moment that such was not the case. Her
description was perfect of the man as I last saw him, except
his dress, but then he was not dead. This of course settled
the matter, and I denied all knowledge of such a spirit.
On my return to England a few days ago, I learned with
sorrow that, my friend, Felix Marston, died of sunstroke at
Kurrachee, on the 30th of June last.
I am not a Spiritualist in your sense of the word, but I wish
to act with honesty, and render unto Caesar his due, so testify
to the wonderful power possessed by this young girl.
If this should meet the eye of Miss d’Esperance, we respect¬
fully ask her to communicate with us, Sowerby Grange,
Bramfield, Suffolk. John Greison.
Editha Greison.
London, Charing Cross Hotel, April 17th, 1879.
SPONTANEOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA CONTRASTED
WITH VISUAL DELUSION.
BY ELIZA BOUCHER.
I once expressed in these pages my conviction, that if the
time ever arrived in the history of psychology when we
might be enabled to see the end from the beginning, we
should, perhaps, find that materialism, far from being the
deadly foe was, in reality, the best auxiliary of Spiritualism,
because it had responded to the cry of the infant science,
“ Save me from my friends! ” With critical acumen (when
honest) it tested the reality of the phenomena which claim
to be of Spiritualistic origin, and thus by forcing Spiritualists,
in self-defence, to make sure of each step in our march of
progress, obviated the necessity of retracing those steps for
the purpose of examining as to whether or not we were in the
right track. “A man’s foes,” said the prophet of Nazareth,
“ shall be they of his own household and never was this
declaration more strikingly fulfilled than in the history of
modern Spiritualism. In the rebound from that materialism
which was the inevitable consequence of the Protestant Re¬
formation, men have been inclined to regard Spiritualism as
an angel from heaven. From the fact of its having brought
them out of the horrible pit, the mire and clay of materialism,
they think they owe it all faith and homage, and are apt in their
honest enthusiasm to set down every strange phenomenon to
j jj the influence of spirits, either good or bad, whereas I cannot
111 help thinking that we should only have recourse to the latter
}|| explanation when every other theory fails to cover all the
j (| facts.
j) j I recently came across a most curious case which serves
|j| to show how careful we should be in discriminating between
|/j the delusions of disease, and phenomena which resist every
I- (| endeavour to account for them on any other theory than that
| of supermundane interference. I place the nanatives one
after the other, and have copied them verbatim. Your readers
will, therefore, be in a position to contrast the two, and I ask
; those who are apt to relegate all accounts of apparitions to
the realm of visual delusions, whether it is possible to place
my second narrative in the same category as that to which
| the first undoubtedly belongs.
nj The following is from Animal Parasites and Messmates, by
j)j P. J. Van Beneden (Henry S. King and Co. London, 1876),
ijl page 218 :—
j) I “ An egg of the Twnia solium may be swallowed by a man
\)\ instead of passing into the stomach of the pig. It is hatched
i )! in his stomach precisely in the same manner, and the embryo
Ijll takes up its lodging in some enclosed cavity. Some have
|n been found in the eyeball, in the lobes of the brain, in the
m heart, or in the muscles. We have lately read an account of
i (| the effects produced by one of these wandering worms on a
m man who died after suffering from a peculiar disturbance of
jn the mind. Two spirits seemed to haunt and speak to him:
|)| the one a German, the other a Pole. Filthy images were
i 11 called up before his imagination. At the post-mortem ex-
;)! amination, cysticerci were found to occupy the sella turcica,
near the c0mwmsi/?*0 of the optic nerves. One of these was
|>| alive, the others were calcified. Two others in a similar con-
: (I dition occupied a lobe of the brain.”
The narrative I wish to contrast with this is found in the
i (i second volume of Anecdotes of the Upper Ten Thousand, by the
\t\ Hon. Grantley F. Berkeley (Richard Bentley. London,
Ijl 1867), page 328:—
ju THE CHINTZ LADY.
“ Here, then, let me give another ghost-story, one of the
|) best authenticated that I can give, known to a good many of
i j I my friends as ‘ The Chintz Lady.’ The embodiment of the
i; i apparition in question is commonly supposed to have been a
| | domestic, who, for some unexplained cause or other, com-
1/ i mitted suicide. Of the frequent appearance of this ghost I
I j i have heard much, but my kind and valued friend, to whom I
I > I have previously alluded, has given me the still more authen-
KI tic information which follows:—‘ Sir was on a visit at
i | i the mansion with his daughter, who has since married, when
j j j on one evening the young lady attended the dining-table
|/1 with a severe headache, in the hope that the pain would
! j i cease. The hope was vain: during dinner it became worse,
|) | and she was forced to leave the table and seek the retirement
Kl and quiet of her own room. In ascending the stairs, the
i) i usual waiting-place of these old, unpleasant spirits, she sud-
| (| denly perceived, on a landing-place of course, what she sup-
ill posed to be an old domestic of the family, dressed in a chintz
iji of gown, .and standing by a table on which was placed a lamp.
i|| Under this very plausible impression, and having no sort of
| j | superstitious dread about her, Miss accosted the old housc-
i/i maid, as she thought, and wished her to go down and “send
|j| up her maid directly to her room.” To this the apparition
11 j returned no sort of reply, and the young lady went on, but
i j i suddenly recollecting that she had not said whose maid-servant
\)\ it was that was wanted, she returned to the figure, still
iji standing by the table, and addressed to it the necessary
|(| explanation. On this again, the chintz dress made no sort
Ijl of verbal reply, but turning on its heel, it pointed with a
i(| shrivelled hand to a door at the end of a passage. Supposing
|j| the old woman to be either deaf or quite imbecile, Miss B.
j)| then hurried off, reached her own room, and directly rang
Ijl her bell. Her maid having answered the summons, the
1(1 young lady at once told her of what she had seen, with a
i j | view to elicit some information as to the poor creature whom
1(1 she had accosted by the table and lamp on the landing-place.
|jl The answer to her quiet interrogatory was a burst into tears
| (I and hysterics by the maid, between whose sobs her young
ijj mistress made out the words, “Oh, Miss, you have seen the
thing that haunts this house.” By this time, the rest of the
May 2, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
211
ladies having retired, the hostess came up to the bedroom of
the invalid, to inquire as to the state of her health, which it
is needless to assure my readers was not benefited by the
adventure in question. The maid having been dismissed,
the hostess on being told the facts, admitted that this appari¬
tion had frequently been seen by her visitors as well as
her servants, but never on any occasion by any of the mem¬
bers of the family. At the close of her remarks and explana¬
tions she added, “ I hope she didn't point to any door ? "
“ ‘ To this hope her guest replied that the ghost had pointed
to a door, and leading her friend into the passage she pointed
out the very portal the withered hand had indicated. To
this indication the hostess replied, “'Tis the chamber now
occupied by our friends the and their baby; but don’t
speak of the affair, nor mention to any soul that you have seen
‘the chintz lady’; for when that fatal sign is made to any
door, those then occupying are about to die a violent and
untimely death within the next twelve months.” It is a fact,
and an extraordinary fact, that six months after this occurrence
those who occupied the doomed chamber thus signalised by
that mysterious hand were among the first victims slaughtered
in the Indian Mutiny.'
*' Now there is no gainsaying evidence such as this ; there
are those alive now who know the truth of my narrative even
better than I do : but why or wherefore such things are per¬
mitted by what is believed to be an Omnipotent power, for
no beneficial nor perceivable purpose, and to answer no end
of religion or worldly good, in the present nor in the future,
it is impossible for roan in his imperfect state to imagine. Such
things are, such things have been, and such things may
be again: they are beyond all explanation, and, as far as
mortal and unbiassed judgment goes, above all doubt—a
mystery to be solved when all truths are known, and the
Disposer of events deigns to lift the superhuman veil that for
the time severs the mortal from immortality.”
Albion Villa, Fremantle Square, Bristol.
SPIRITUALISM IN LEEDS.
Mr. T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., of Newcastle, delivered a lecture,
entitled “ The Reality of the Phenomena of Modern Spiritualism,”
in the Leeds Philosophical Hall last night. The audience numbered
about 300 persons, including several gentlemen well known in local
medical and scientific circles. Alderman Tatham presided, and briefly
introduced Mr. Barkas.
The lecturer said his object was to submit some of the experiences
of modern Spiritualism which had come under his own observation,
and for which he could vouch. The “ exposures ” of the phenomena
of Spiritualism which had taken place in the neighbourhood were
not really exposures at all, and he would show that phenomena
similar to those which were said to have been exposed might be pro¬
duced at stances, under very different conditions, and from very
different causes to those to which they had been attributed. Occur¬
rences at stances were sometimes under such conditions that any
careful investigator would accept them as probable, and he was sur¬
prised that so many persons declined to enter into a full and fair
examination of the alleged facts. He divided the results of his
observations, extending over twenty-five years, into two classes—
physical and psychological—and said he found that at the back of all
the manifestations there appeared to be a more or less intelligent
operator. First, treating of the more elementary manifestations of
Spiritualism, he described how various tables had moved at
his bidding ; after which, he instanced cases in which questions had
been correctly answered in a way which could not be accounted
for on the theory of coincidence or any kindred idea. Amid
much laughter, Mr. Barkas declared that, at his request, a table
had floated up to a height of eighteen inches, and, slowly des¬
cending, had gently pressed the light from the wick of a
candle. At the back of all that, said he, there was an intelligence,
though perhaps not a very brilliant one ; but its workings could not be
accounted for on any other theory than that of Spiritualism. Passing
to the more occult mysteries of the phenomena, Mr. Barkas said he had
been touched with a human hand when no embodied human being was
within seven feet of him, and he had seen young women and children
walk from behind curtains and pass before him in a room when he had,
as he thought, the clearest physical evidence that no such embodied
human beings were in the apartment. In a case where a stout matronly
lady was secured behind a curtain in a room, he had a short time after¬
wards seen a lady in white, suspiciously like the medium, walk from
behind the screen, but this form had been followed by another which
was taller by inches than the medium. He recollected one case in
which, whilst the medium was lying upon a sofa outside the cabinet all
the while, a tall female walked from behind a curtain. He said to the
figure, “ Will you allow me to measure your height by standing side¬
ways.” This request being complied with, he found she was a number
of inches taller than the medium. He then said, “ Will you allow me
to feel your pulse 1 If you will lay your hand on mine, and allow me,
I shall be obliged.” He felt the pulse, which was beating at about the
normal pace. If that were an apparition—and, personally, he had no
' i doubt it was—(laughter)—then spiritual phenomena simulated not only
, i the human form, but something analagous to human flesh and blood,
11 or the vital internal operations of a human being. In another instance,
1 j three ladies walked out of a cabinet, one of whom, who professed to be
[ i the mother of a lady in the room, stood near to him, and he observed
if her whole countenance. At his request the supposed daughter de-
)! scribed her mother, and the description was as exact as a photograph.
> | He had seen living human forms grow up, so to speak, in the middle
| of a room gradually, walk about the room, shake hands with the
| audience, show signs of affection, and then as gradually as they ap-
)! peared vanish away. On one occasion two senior wranglers bound and
)! sealed two young women to the floor behind a curtain, and, having
I \ assured themselves that no one was behind that curtain, they saw a
^ | human form walk out and retire. In reply to his inquiries, an “ auto-
\; matic sensitive”—a very ordinarily educated woman, with whomhe sat
II in a room alone—had answered at once and correctly the most abstruse
/ i questions in biology and psychology, and in another case he had had
(! answers written in good German and Russ whilst the medium knew
I i nothing of those languages. After quoting other “ revelations ” of
) i the phenomena, the lecturer concluded by remarking that, notwith-
/1 standing some real and many supposed exposures, there remained a
(I large body of incontrovertible facts connected with Spiritualism for
\ \ which no ordinary scientific theory as yet could account.
The Chairman said it struck him that if Spiritualism were true it
) j was a pity that so little benefit had resulted to anyone from the
(| supposed revelations of the spirits. (Hear, hear.)
\ I Mr. Barkas having invited questions, a large number was asked,
)\ evidently both by friends of Spiritualism and by sceptics. Alluding
|) I to the chairman’s observation, the lecturer said that Spiritualism had
< j shown us that we must broaden our knowledge of natural laws, that
| (j the limitations of natural laws now laid down were untenable, and that
! 11 there were laws and forces which we must learn to recognise. Then,
i)( too, investigations of spiritual phenomena had a tendency to lead
i (i materialists to believe in a future world, in which the happiness was
I I proportioned to human conduct in this world. Answering his ques-
i) i tioners, Mr. Barkas said he declined to enter into the Scriptural aspects
:/ j of the question. It was next to impossible for twelve persons to sit
| (i around a table in a room for the purpose of getting elementary spiritual
j (i manifestations without finding them in a short time, although more
i j I advanced phenomena required more patience. If even conjurers would
|) j set themselves seriously to find phenomenal effects they could do so.
| (i He had seen apparitions in the form of strong men—so strong that he
I (\ had had to ask them not to press his hand so strongly lest they
!)l squeezed out blood. (Laughter.) Altogether, he thought he had seen
:) i almost an equal number of male and female apparitions. The majority
i (I of mediums with whom he had sat had been women or young men,
j (i although he had also sat with full-grown, strong colliers, engineers,
| (; and all kinds of men. He would give to the chairman the names of
! (I the senior wrangler, and of a Quaker lady whose connection with the
i(j stances he had alluded to in his lecture. Spiritualism had very
i (i materially increased his knowledge of science, and there were hundreds
j i of cases in which persons had, through the suggestions of the beings
:) j they called spirits, obtained a knowledge of the machinery of natural
I) i science which they did not previously possess. With regard to Dr.
i ‘ i Monck,his impression was that he had been very much traduced, though
i U he had never sat with him. Although Dr. Monck had talked a good
!) ] deal of nonsense, phenomena analogous to those which are alleged to
;) I take place through' his mediumship had taken place under the instru-
; (i mentality of other mediums. He could not say how the forms which
Ihe had seen growing out of the middle of the room—(laughter)—came to
be clothed any more than he or any one else could tell how human beings
| saw. Spiritualism gave men a better idea of the world to come, and,
in keeping with Isaac Taylor’s ‘ ‘ Physical Theory of the Future
World,” it taught that there was progress in the next world; that
: i i spirits were not divided into two but many classes ; that there was a
11 i condition they might call hell, and another condition they might call
U j heaven, as well as an intermediate state. He was quite free to admit
| (i that many of the things attributed to the action of spiritual phenomena
I) j were very absurd, ridiculous, and painful to a well organised mind ;
j) i but there were living persons who performed feats, and others who
111 went to see them, who were quite as great fools as the spirits whose
' | absurdity they laughed at. (Hear, hear.) Some of the most extraordi-
i j ] nary of the phenomena he had described took place in the office of his
ison, over which he had perfect control. Writing upon a slate had been
produced in numerous instances upon as well as under a table. Though
he believed the facts of Spiritualism to be true, he was not so much the
champion of any particular medium as to be induced to take one with
him to illustrate his lectures. Some people were so susceptible of sub¬
jective illusions that their evidence would be of no value ; he knew
men and women whom he could make to see ghosts innumerable. He
had mesmerised occasionally for forty years; but though he had sub¬
jected himself to many powerful mesmerists, he had never felt any
sort of influence. It was, however, as unlikely that twelve persons
ji' j sitting in a room would be subject to the same illusion as that all
]) j seeds would be influenced alike.
i j | At the close of the proceedings, which extended over two hours and
i) ] a half, a hearty vote of thanks was accorded to Mr. Barkas,
There was an excellent meeting and a very intelligent audience,
i The questions were unusally relevant.—Leeds Post.
EThe address of the Cambridge University Psychological Society is 13,
Market-street, Cambridge.
Instead of A.D. 1879, the new American Spiritualist periodical. Mind
and Matter (Philadelphia), dates itself M.S. 32. The letters “ M.S.”
denote “ Modem Spiritualism.”
212
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 2, 1879.
, ADDRESS TO SPRING!
Come, gentle Spring!
Come with thy wreath of flowers,
With thy cheek of passion’s hue,
With thy flashing eyes of blue,
With thy sun, and warmth, and showers ;
Come, gentle Spring!
Come, joyous Spring !
Come, for I miss thee on the breast of earth,
Come, for the trees in nakedness are seen,
And lucid brooks roll sluggish o’er the green :
At thy approach the woodlands ring with mirth ;
Come, joyous Spring!
Come, fragrant Spring!
Come, and release soft breezes from their cell.
That they upon their balmy wing
From thousand shrubs may incense bring,
And in thy praise their notes may swell;
Come, fragrant Spring!
Come, vocal Spring!
Come with thy train of birds, whose voice
Calls on sweet echo by the lonely rill,
What time the day-god crowns the western hill,
And with thy music bid the world rejoice ;
Come, vocal Spring!
Come, lovely Spring!
And when at eve I with my true love stray
O’er shaded pathways, and o’er meadows green.
With countless gems illume the sky serene,
And strew thy blossoms on our onward way ;
Come, lovely Spring!
Come, gentle Spring !
Come with thy wreath of flowers,
With thy cheek of passion’s hue,
With thy flashing eyes of blue,
With thy sun, and warmth, and showers;
Come, gentle Spring !
From My Children's Magazine for March.
E. Louisa S. Nosworthy.
CotxesponDence*
[Great- freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be
relumed; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which are
not anonymous.) ■
ALLEGED ORIGIN OE MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,:—I think it may interest the readers of Mr. Campbell’s very able
paper on the history of so-called Spiritualism to know that the beginning of
that movement is attributed to the spirit of Benjamin Franklin by Andrew
Jackson Davis.
From his Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse, in a chapter headed “The
Origin of Spirit Sounds,” I copy the following extracts. The whole chapter
is worth reading for its curious suggestions, but too long for quoting in full.
“ By direct influx or impression from the highly accomplished spirit of
Benjamin Franklin, Tlearn that we owe principally to him the discovery of
this ‘ electrical ’ method of telegraphing from the second sphere to the earth’s
inhabitants.” The substance of my communication with him on the 4th day
of January, 1851, was as follows. I give his own words, faithfully
rendered:—
“In searching out,” says that great mind, “the numerous manifestations
of spiritual presence among the multitudinous sects and nations of the earth,
I perceived that the great general principle of aromal intercourse had been
observed, but never particularly understood, by spirits when they have from
time to time communicated. In compliance with the great, inextinguishable
love I feel for scientific research and exploration I have steadily—with calm
and fervent joy—progressed from pomt to point in this attainment by
following the principles of panthea or of electricity into their innumerable
windings and diverse modifications. . . . And I proposed the opening of a
material instrumentality which would be of universal use to those who
might desire to hold communion with their friends on the earth, as all minds
might be approached in this way, while only the few were approachable or
reached by interior or mental communion. I found the German spirits most
sympathetic to this proposition, and I informed the whole circle of congenial
associates of my discovery that numerous manifestations of spiritual power
had been made to the earth’s inhabitants in ages past by the panthea
principle of aromal intercourse, but that the scientific method had not been
perceived nor practised; therefore that no permanent or essential results
had as yet been attained.”
After a page and a-half descriptive of these spirits’ mode of action in
rather “tall,” stilted language, Benjamin Franklin proceeds: “ We now
passed over western New York. And particularly at Auburn and Bochester
—perceiving there the required pre-requisites—we opened the first com¬
munications which have to any extent engaged the world’s attention and
interested the sceptical-intellect.”
Further on in this chapter we are informed that Dr. Franklin signified
“Divine element” by the term “panthea principle.” S. J. Penny.
Cullompton, April 15th.  
“nature’s divine revelations.”
Sir,—Professor Denton’s “ Review of Andrew Jackson Davis’s Divine
Revelations” given by you recently under the head “Clairvoyance and
Physics,” as illustrating “ the well-known untrustworthiness of psychical
revelations about physics,” is likely to impart wrong impressions as to the
general character of the book.
Whatever its imperfections (is there any human production infallible ?),
Nature's Divine Revelations occupies a unique position. It was the first
comprehensive, enunciation of the principle of evolution. Darwin’s Origin
of Species not only appeared a dozen years later, but it ignores the spiritual
nature of the ultimate of development—Man. Evolution, as held by most
scientists of our day, denies human individuality—is, practically, Pantheism;
while the main object of Davis’s first work is to give scientific and philo¬
sophic evidences of our immortahty.
Professor Denton has undoubtedly detected some erroneous statements
by the seer, but I think many of his strictures are strained, and others are
due, probably, to the imperfect record of the author’s utterances. No claim
to infallibility is advanced in the book, however; on the contrary, the author
frequently acknowledges his amenability to correction by the expansion of
science. It is the fundamental principles and the main conclusions which
are to be regarded as the chief characteristics of the book; and in these
matters, I submit, the work will stand the test of both philosophy and
science.
Probably Professor Bush’s estimate of Nature's Divine Revelations,
quoted by Mr. Chapman in the preface to the English edition of 1847, is
not overdrawn. He says :—“Taken as a whole the work is a profound and
elaborate discussion of the Philosophy of the Universe, and for grandeur of
conception, soundness of principle, clearness of illustration, order of arrange- •
ment, and encyclopaedic range of subjects, I know of no work of any single
mind that will bear away from it the palm.”
Mr. Davis has in his twenty-nine or thirty other works pointed out mis¬
conceptions and errors in Nature's Divine Revelations when he seemed to
think principles were involved, and I cannot help regarding Professor
Denton’s winnowing process, thirty years after the book’s appearance, as
somewhat needless, if not useless. John F. Overbury.
Stamford, April 15th, 1879.  
a trance seance.
Sir,—A few days ago I had a curious test-sitting with Mr. J. W.
Fletcher, which I think will be interesting to others. I sat with him for
the first time about eighteen mouths ago. I was then a perfect stranger to
him, but he told me some interesting truths about my life, and gave me
some useful medical advice. Since then I have become slightly acquainted
with him personally, and being particularly anxious to obtain some plain
information and advice from ms controlling spirit, “Winona,” untinged
by any possible influence which his personal knowledge of me might give
to her communications, and also to test his powers, I wrote from an address
unknown to him, in a strange hand, under a feigned name, to ask for an
appointment on Saturday after six, and received one line in reply, appoint¬
ing eight o’clock. That he had no suspicion I was his sitter for Saturday I
am quite sure. On the eventful evening I entered the stance room with a
beat ing heart, fearing detection, though I had a thick crape veil on over two
thinner ones, and sat with my back to the low-burning light, and only
bowed silently when Mr. Fletcher entered for fear my voice even should
betray me. I need not have taken half so much trouble. Mr. Fletcher
had so many strangers sitting with him that he was absolutely incurious,
even rather listless and indifferent, and decidedly tired, and simply requested
me with distant politeness to remove my glove, and in a few minutes was in
the land of shadows, and “Winona’s” pleasant voice asked if she should tell
me what she saw. After listening quietly to her account of my general life,
which was very accurate, I asked what I thought a dexterous question; she
paused a moment before replying, and then said naively, with her head on
one side, “ Do you think that I don’t know you ? ” I replied that I was
not sure; but she said, very decidedly, “ I know you quite well, and how¬
ever many veils you put on I should always know you; I can see all the
influences around you very plainly.” I asked if her medium knew me. “ Oh,
no,” she said, “ he does not care; he was not thinking about it: ” and this
must have been true, for when, at the close of our sitting, Mr. Fletcher
returned and resumed his polite and distant manner, I asked him if he had
any notion who I was, but he had not the least idea: and when I raised my
veil his genuine laugh of amusement and exclamation of “ this is quite too
funny ” proved how entirely he had been in the dark. I may add that
“Winona’’gave me some clear-headed advice, and showed, without any
explanation from me, a most intimate acquaintance with the troubles and
complications surrounding me. If it is so always in the spirit life, what
misunderstandings and misconstructions and painful explanations, so difficult
to put into the right words, will be avoided there. Ellen Crump.
169, Marylebone-road, London.
SPIRITUALISM IN GLASGOW.
Sir,—It is now some time since I had the pleasure of forwarding to the
columns of The Spiritualist anything about general Spiritualistic doings in
these parts. Since the last commumcation, Mr. Morse has lectured in our
midst and is coming again. His mediumship is thoroughly appreciated
in Glasgow, as indicated by the fact that the Glasgow Spiritualists’
Association will now receive from him twice as many visits and lectures this
year as they had last year.
Considerable interest has been awakened in the public mind with regard
to the subjects of Mesmerism and Phrenology, by my recent lectures and
entertainments at the Trades’ Hall and Grand National Hall. These enter¬
tainments were fitly brought to a conclusion by a lecture on Spiritualism on
the following Sunday night at the Trades’ Hall—subject: “ Spiritualism
Defined and Defended.” The hall was crowded to excess, and to the surprise
of the lecturer and his committee, the lecture was well received and fre¬
quently interrupted by bursts of applause. There was no opposition. Mr.
Alexander Duguid, inspirational meaium, of Kirkcaldy, is still on the “war¬
path,” having joined the forlorn hope of the army of those who dare not
advocate Spiritualism in public. He recently lectured for the Society at
their rooms, which were insufficient to hold all the people who came to hear
hini; he is a good speaker, clear and concise in his manner, and there is not
May 2, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
213
the slightest doubt when he is better known his services will be more fully
taken advantage of. At present he is lecturing to good audiences every
Sunday night at Kirkcaldy.
In consequence of Mr. Bishop’s visit many new members have been added
to the Glasgow Spiritualists’ Association, and their rooms are crowded at
every public meeting when a lecture on the subject of Spiritualism is
announced. By special request, I gave at the Grand National Hall an
exposition and lecture, in which I made some kind and pertinent remarks
about Mr. Bishop “ and his natural style of doing things; ” his pretentious
tricks were reproduced—in fact, Mr. Bishop was exposed as well as his
exposS, and his explanations were explained by showing how he really per¬
formed his tricks. The entertainment was a success, but I hope it is the
last time I shall make my appearance as conjurer. It is like groping in the
gutter for stars, dirtying one’s self by grovelling in the mud instead of
walking erect, looking upwards, and reflecting on the thoughts suggested
by the sublime subject. In a conversation I had with a “ true son of the
Catholic Church,” lie stated he was thoroughly disgusted with Mr. Bishop’s
explanation, and was satisfied this “young gentleman of independent
means ” (so-called in Professor Carpenter’s letters of introduction to the
Edinburgh savants) had not thrown the slightest light on the subject of
Spiritualism, which he, from long experience, believed to be true. He con¬
sidered it too serious a subject to be trifled with; for although he believed it
possible for “the spirits of just men made perfect ” to communicate with
their fellows not yet “ clothed upon,” he also believed that impure or un¬
developed spirits obsessed the bodies of licentious and intemperate men and
women. The history and exercises of the Church furnish some evidence of
this. He further added quite solemnly that he had seen the apparition of a
brother priest to whom he was very much attached which appeared in his
room about the time he died, in another part of the country. As I have not
permission to give details circumstantially, I withhold them for the present.
This gentleman, while he professed, or rather confessed his belief in Spiritual¬
ism, considered it a dangerous and unwise course of procedure for anybody
to “ pry into these mysteries unless permitted or appointed by the Church
to do so.” Shall we wait for permission P
Professor Gardner, of the University of Glasgow, has found the “ pearl of
great price; ” he has found out the true cause of the “ Modem Epidemic
Delusionand his “ new theory,” although not possessing the merit of
originality, has not been “ put in that way ” before. Professor Gardner
accounts for the whole phenomena—physical and mental—of Spiritualism
by the possession by certain individuals of a “ diseased faculty of wonder.”
This hypothesis the learned Professor considered sufficiently large to cover
the whole ground of these modem manifestations. The Professor, at the
conclusion of his remarks, admitted that he had had no practical acquaintance
with the subject, and that he did not consider it an advisable one for the
student to investigate. This may be a scientific mode of procedure, but
scarcely the method laid down by Locke aud Bacon, i.e., facts first and
inductions afterwards.
As the natural outcome of the unscientific twaddle we have had here
lately, mediums in general, and Mr, David Duguid in particular, have come
in for an unlimited supply of abuse. And worse still, if worse still can
be imagined, the “ goody-goody ” people have prayed for them and him, that
they might be convertea; that is, they have been handed over to Satan by
the “ elect ” in this city. Mr. Bishop “ was and is not,” and Mr. Duguid
survives. The answer to his traducers was a seance given by him to the
Glasgow Mail commissioner and four other sceptics—men of mark—who
sat with him in addition to his usual “inner ” circle, namely, Mr. Bowman,
the photographer; Mr. Hay Nisbet, the printer and publisher of the
Psychological. Review; and Mr. Garrick, gentleman—making nine sitters in
all at the stance. The manifestations were given under strict test conditions.
Mr. David Duguid passed into the trance condition; he was then blindfolded
by one of those present; another visitor closed and locked the door; every
precaution was taken to prevent interruption, collusion, or trickery. The
nrst part of the stance was held in the light. Mr. Duguid, under control
in the gaslight, mixed and arrayed his paints and then painted a landscape,
in several colours and with considerable taste, upon a card brought by one
of the visitors for that purpose. Preparatory to holding the dark stance
for “direct ” painting, Mr. Duguid was thoroughly secured to the chair,
and the knots covered over with gummed paper. Cards were then selected,
marked, the comers torn off, and held by two of the visitors before turning
out the light. Afterwards two miniature landscape paintings were done in a
remarkably short time; tliree raps were given to light up, the cards were
found upon the table in the position in which they were left, and a “ wee
picture ” was found on each, the colours still wet as when the paints left
the artist’s (whose P) brush. Mr. Duguid was found secured as before, the
knots untampered with, and it was some time before he could be released.
The whole stance was given under strict test conditions, being a full and
complete refutation of the charges made recently in public against this
extraordinary medium.
Mr. Harper, of Birmingham, favoured the Association last Sunday week
with one of Ins lectures, “ Social and Political Reform from a Spiritual
Standpoint.” As usual, the lecture was well received. Mr. Harper is always
a welcome visitor in Glasgow.
The Association has lost in the departure of Mr. Campbell, for America, a
valuable member, a plain-spoken, earnest advocate of Spiritualism. Mr.
Campbell was an honest man, true to his convictions. A soirte was held
in his honour by the Association, on Tuesday, the 25th March, Mr. Hamer
in the chair. He presented Mr. Campbell, on behalf of those present, with a
purse of gold, as a small token of their esteem. Mr. Campbell was unequal
to the task of replying, and his break-down was received with good-natured
applause.
I intend to visit Edinburgh once a week; dates will be announced in the
local papers. I shall be happy as ever to give visitors such information as
I am able on the subjects of Phrenology, Mesmerism, and Spiritualism.
J. W. Coates.
65, Jamaica-street, Glasgow,
I GHOSTS.
(From The North British Advertiser, April, 19th.)
“ Samlet. Alas, poor ghost!
Ghost. Pity me not, hut lend thy serious hearing
To what I shall unfold.”—Shakespeare,
“ Spirits, when they please, can execute their airy purposes,
And works of love or enmity fulfil.”—Milton.
“ Do you believe in fairies, Mac ? ” said Allan Cunningham one day to a
I Celtic friend. “’Deed, I’m no shuist so sure,” was the mountameer’s
| cautious reply; “but do you believe-in them yoursel’, Mr. Kinnikem?”
) | “ Yes,” said honest Allan, “ I once did, and I would to God that I could
) j still, for the woodland and the moor have lost for me a great portion of their
) j romance since my faith in their existence has departed. Ah! Tom Camp-
(j bell says truly—
) i “ ‘ When science from creation’s face
) i Enchantment’s veil withdraws,
. What lovely visions then give place
/ i To cold, material laws! ’ ”
Were I asked the question. Do you believe in ghosts, Mac ? perhaps I
) I might evade the query, or meet it with a very proper nineteenth century
j reply.
(j We made the steam-engine, the electric telegraph, and the telephone, by
)j which we perform greater deeds than the gods of antiquity ever did. We
/ i know the world’s age by looking at its rocks, as we know a horse’s age by
(j looking at its teeth.
): We laugh at the Mosaic account of creation, and all the other non-
); scientific statements of the Bible. We have traced the world’s origin to
Fire Mist,” the Deity to organic matter, and decided that Man is only a
i progressive development of the monkey. Our new science-religion is
gradually but surely gaining ascendency over ignorance and superstition;
even the sceptics of our creed acknowledge that we bear the ancestral
| characteristics!
i \ We believe in nothing that our minds cannot grasp, and our faith is strong
(i in ourselves. Ghosts, indeed! Ha, ha, ha!!! Absurd—very ! [Strictly
)! Private and Confidential.—We believe in ghosts all the same.]
What is a ghost ? Is it the disembodied spirit of humanity, the divorced
) | essence of life from the variously combined organisms that once constituted
(| a man, hovering about its old familiar dwelling-places ? Or is it a mental
(j impression transferred by a process of natural laws to the eye and other
\| corporeal senses ?
iWhy is the soldier’s lion heart awed by mysterious sensations’at mid-
j night on the battle-field ? He met the living enemy in the sunlight like a
god, and shrinks in the gloom like a coward before their corpses!
We are very brave in books and on platforms, but laughably small in lonely
) j Highland glens or clachan kirkyards, when the crimson and golden bars have
)\ burnt out of gloaming skies. The unexpected sheep’s “baa,” or the owl’s
(j “tu-whit-tu-wnoo,” inspire us with a certam eerie dislike of our own company.
Yes, we believe in ghosts. I believe in ghosts, and frequently go to the
j j Dean, and byde tryst with glorious old Kit North and his delightful son-in-
) i law, Aytoun. • Hogg, Tickler, and Ambrose join us in rare “ Noctes
(j Ambrosianse.” George Combe, a neighbour, too, comes over occasionally,
(i and declares the shepherd’s organ of self-approbation to be a magnificent
) specimen of full development. The “ Blue Parlour ”, scenes are all re-enacted
) j to perfection at the Dean; and if the harmony of assembled spirits is ever
(| disturbed, order is quickly restored by the numerous mighty ones of the
) I law, all neighbours of North, Aytoun, and Combe.
) 1 Sometimes I turn into Greyfriars’, and have a crack with Robertson,
> | Mackenzie, Allan Ramsay, and George Buchanan. Robertson is stately,
(I Buchanan pedantic, Mackenzie cruel, and Allan blithe and metrical as ever.
(| Duncan Ban MacIntyre seems a proud, unsocial ghost, and does not even
j I speak to his immediate neighbours, the Martyrs. Of course, he can only
) j speak Gaelic, and this may sufficiently account for his taciturnity and
i reserve.
, j The Martyrs are, however, grand, noble fellows. God-like in their lan-
{j guage and manners, yet simple and gentle as children, they frequently in my
) | presence show a disposition to be friendly with “ Bluidy Mackenzie; ” but
) i the poor, miserable poltroon is alike incapable of being their enemy or
( friend, and mutters inaudible curses at them between his clenched teeth.
) j His namesake, Henry, is a “ Man of Feeling,” and although once a “ Man
) I of the World,” is now a very superior ghost—a credit to his clan and the
! spiritual commonwealth. Jameson and Mylne are particular friends of
I mine; splendid fellows they are both, and much given to art criticism.
Jameson is enthusiastic about the progress which Scottish art has made
since his day, and mentions the names of Wilkie, Allan, Faed, Nicol, Paton,
) j M'Culloch, and Philip with rapturous approval! He proudly claims them
(1 as his ain dear, clever bairns; and it is amusing to watch the expression of
(j his face when speaking of the annual show on the Mound; laughter, pity, and
j I a hundred other emotions pass over it in rapid succession, like sunshine
)! and shadow in an April landscape. But his meniment is unbounded, and
) j his laughter startles the other ghosts in wonderment when speaking of the
(j conceited daubers who didn’t get “hung,” or were put in the “ condemned
\ j cell,” or get “ skied.” A word of explanation from John Kay (the carica-
) I turist of Kajr’s portraits) clears the matter, and all the other ghosts burst
) | into a loud, ringing guffaw!
(j Mylne is a douce, sedate, sensible sort of ghost, perhaps a trifle cynical
(j and over-fastidious in his tastes. His entire ghost life has been spent in
) j the vain endeavour to erase the fulsome panegyric on his tomb; and while
) | approving the taste displayed in some of our modem buildings and monu-
t j ments, is strong in his condemnation of others. The Scott Monument and
(| the" New West-End Cathedral make his eyes sparkle with pleasure, and he
( is never weary of praising the public spirit of Dr. William Chambers for his
)! laudable efforts to restore St. Giles’s ancient Cathedral. But the Nelson
)! and Simpson Monumeuts, the Barclay Church, and a certain hotel in Princes-
( street he positively asserts to be a scandal, and altogether unworthy of
vl Edinburgh. Allan Ramsay sometimes proposes a “ daunder oure by to the
214
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 2, 1879.
Buccleuch, juist a stap or twa ayont south,” and I accordingly accompany ; (
him to see Dr. Blacklock, the "blind poet and friend of Burns, and dear, j (
delightful, garrulous Mrs. Cockburn. What reminiscences we have of the j j
’45 and Burns. i J
Blacklock modestly but firmly asserts that the world owes him a priceless j
debt of gratitude for bringing the Ayrshire ploughman to Edinburgh so j (
promptly at the moment when he was on his way to Jamaica. “But for j!
me,” says the sightless bard, “ you would never have had ‘ Tam o’ Shanter,’ j)
and that one poem is worth all your Iliads or Worseiads from Homer down* ! /
to Swinburne!” Honest Allan cordially approves this sentiment by a K
hearty slap on the back; and Mrs. Cockburn, sighing, responds with “Ah, ! (
yes, sirs ; but * The flowers o’ the forest are a’ wede away.’ We hae nae i;
poets nooadays worthy o’ the name—a wheenpuir haveril conceited gowks— j)
puffed-up wind-bags, frae wham nocht comes but words, words, words, !(
wersh as darts o’ cauld parritch, and as intelligible as Egyptian hieroglyphics, j (
Ma certie, Allan, you could teach the fules their trade hrawly. A’e page o’ !)
your ain ‘ Gentle Shepherd ’ has mair o’ nature and true poetry in it than a’ i)
their books put thegither; and, losh me! what a lot they hae produced, j (
The land is flooded wi’ their poetry, and hotchin’ like an auld kebbuck wi’ I (
the poetical tribe; but it’s gruesome to think o’ them, and a relief to gang : \
back to the gude auld days, to get a glisk o’ the auld life o’ Crichton-street i)
and Castlehill, sae fu’ o’ dear memories; for you ken yersel’, Allan, that I j (
was a connectin’ .link atween the Edinburgh o’ Allan Bamsay and Burns i,
and the Edinburgh o’ Walter Scott, while I mysel’ was the queen o’ the j)
literati of Edinburgh. ’Od save’s! I kenna whether to lauch or greet when i)
I think o’ the pliskie I ance played on the Keiths o’ Kavelston, and hoo I : (
got nearly hoisted on my ain petard for my pains. I was aye a Whig in j \
politics, and ne’er could thole the Pretender, wi’ his French, overstrained I)
manners. He was a braw, weel-faured youth, wi’ dancin’ ringlets o’ gowd !)
about his haffets. His e’e and smiling mou’ fairly turned the heads o’ the i j
tawpie Edinburgh leddies; but brawly I kenned what the upshot o’t a’ wad i \:
be, and I wasna wrang. But, losh me! I was juist atween the deil and the i [
deep sea on the Castlehill. My freens in the Castle a’maist dang doon my i)
hoose aboot my lugs wi’ cannon ba’s (there’s ane to be seen sticking in the i l
gable wa’ to this day), and the Hieland breekless caterans threatened to i (
spulzie and dirk me! Sae, to escape their attentions, 1 gaed to visit my |)
kindred, the Keiths, at llavelston, and, as ill luck wad hae’t, I mortally i)
offended their Jacobite feelings by reading a rhymed parody o’ Prince ! (
Charlie’s proclamation, whilk I had composed just lor a bit o’ ran. On my | \
way hame in the Ravelston coach I was stopped at the port by the Hieland j /
guard, waving in tartans and bristling wi’ claymores. Judge o’ my conster- I /
nation and grief when I heard the stern captain o’ the guard propose to | /
search me for Whig letters, for I had the bit anti-Jacobite squib in my gown I (
ouch; but the arms o’ the Bavelston coach saved me! My certies! burnt ; j
aims dreid fire. I took precious gude care, after that, to refrain frae i)
writing satires on the Pretender, and especially carrying them about in my i)
pouch! ” \l
But my favourite ghostland is the Canongate. There I have a wide i(i
circle of dear ghost friends, from Malcolm Caenmhor’s reign down to the |)
Victorian one. i)
I drop into John Knox’s house at the Netherbow, to fill my snuff-box |(
and have a crack with him about the present state of education and the i i
management of School Boards; for he is the originator of the Scottish ;)
parochial school system, and takes a deep interest in all educational matters. :)
He was in a furious mood, the last time I met him, about the shutting up of i(
Holyrood School, and his fierce remarks upon the conduct of Dr. S. and i (
Miss S. gave me most uncomfortable impressions of the mental agony which i /
poor hapless Mary must have suffered in her interviews with the stern, un- 11
compromising old Reformer at Holyrood. He is still stern and rugged in i I
his manner as the boulders of Salisbury Crags, but true and just as arith- i (
metic—too rigidly virtuous to be an agreeable friend. Modern preaching ! j
and Church worship he condemns in terms more forcible than polite. i)
There is a sadness in the tones of his voice when speaking about Scotland ; (
generally; he, in fact, is a disappointed ghost, and would not at all be sur- | (
prised if Scotland met the fate or Sodom and Gomorrah ! “ Come upstairs,” | >
said Knox to me one Saturday afternoon, in a commanding manner, which i)
cowed me into immediate obedfence. j j
I entered a quaint, wainscoted room, where the Reformer said he had i (
written the most part of his “ History of the Reformation,” and where he was j)
once nearly assassinated by a pistol bullet. “ Look,” said he, sarcastically, j)
pointing into the street from a narrow window: “ this is your nineteenth \ j (
century, of which you boast so much! ” The same picture of Canongate j \
life I had frequently witnessed; but I felt ashamed to look the old man in ] >
the face or give him a reply. He evidently knew all my thoughts and \)
feelings, and in a manner more kindly than I expected requested me to be j I
seated. Ghostly domestics were ordered to spread the table with viands | (
and dishes, the names of which were unknown to me. After having partaken i \
of this sixteenth century repast, my entertainer said, “ Yes, this is the Canon- j;
fate, the * sic itur ad astra,’ built by the Canons of Holyrood in good King ;)
lavid’s time; and, although a degraded place now, was once the most im- ! (
portant street in Scotland, and has borne upon its causeway the burden of i j
all that was great or good, and all that has become historically interesting in !)
Scotlandfor thelast seven hundred years; it is, in fact, the history of Scotland |)
in concrete.” While he continued to speak, I fell into a drowsy, mysterious i (
state of somnambulism. The apartment seemed to enlarge in dimensions, j j
and became filled with figures which had apparently walked out of books, i)
Queen Mary, in all her lovehness and woes; Bothwell and Damley, with j)
all their gallantry and vices; the four Maries, with their feminine grace and | (
sweetness; Rizzio, with his lute and Itahan gestures; the Regent Murray, j(
noble, calm, and thoughtful, moved and spoke with a natural realness that i)
was unmistakable. A sudden clash of angry arms, shrieks, and sounds of i)
hurrying feet brought me to the window, where I beheld a scene of inde* j (
scribable terror. Men in armour, with flashing swords and fierce looks, i (
shouted “ A Douglas! ” “A Hamilton! ” The figures at my side seemed [ >
quite unconcerned, and remarked, with calm indifference, “ ’Tis only a causey j /
tulzie.” .
The melee waxed fierce and furious—the shout of the victor and groan
of the vanquished smote my ear with painful apprehension; but a mysterious
transformation gradually took place; steel helm and breastplate, trunk-hose
and doublet, waving mantle and Andrea Eerrara blade, melted into vulgar
modern rags and murderous bludgeon.
The voices changed from sixteenth century Scotch to nineteenth century
Irish, and the vision entirely dissolved when a thin, squeaking, female voice
exclaimed, “ Sir, you forgot to pay me the sixpence for admission here! ”
Anthony C. M‘Bryde.
SUNDAY SERVICES AT THE STEINWAY HALL.
Mr. J. William Fletcher, lectured on Easter Sunday at the Stein¬
way Hall, Lower Seymour-street, London, on “ Resurrection.” He said
that, as we consider these beautiful flowers which loving fingers have placed
before us (referring to a magnificent collection of lilies on the table), we feel
that we cannot choose a better or higher lesson than the one they teach ; that
we cannot touch upon a higher theme than the one their life embodies. We
may gaze upon the beauty of the flower, we may perceive its sweetness and
delicacy of colouring, and feel “ How beautiful it is! How happy the flower
should be to reveal so much of beauty and to bring so much joy to the
world.” We forget the long struggle the flower baa ere it was enabled to
express its real life in the form ol beauty and in the sweetness of its per¬
fume. But not in the colouring or the perfume is the whole lesson contained.
If you trace it back through the varied changes of its life, the struggle it has
been forced to make for its existence, the black earth from which it has
drawn its life, the storms that have beaten upon it, the clouds and sunshine
that have fallen around it, you will find that the flower in its blossoming is
only the culmination of the grand resources of nature. That from the soil,
from the storm, from the sunshine, from the atmosphere, certain elements or
supplies of energy have been taken which result in the unfolding flower;
that to no one of these elements does it owe its life, but to the influence of
all. It has forced its life through all contending elements, and from the
tiniest seed to the opening flower its life has been one long struggle.for
existence. Not only in the plant but in our own lives is the spirit en¬
deavouring to manifest itself to the world of consciousness and the world of
thought; our life is one long struggle against the contending elements; every
effort to become better, every onward step is taken in direct opposition to
all the influences about us. It has ever been thus since time began—the ways
of ignorance are easy and smooth, the heights of knowledge and wisdom
difficult to climb. If we turn over the pages of the past we find that the
noblest and highest have only gained the victory by surmounting every
obstacle, that the price of self-sacrifice was exacted for every great return.
There is, perhaps, no life in which this is more plainly manifested than in the
life of Jesus. Hedged in on every'side by bigotry and superstition. He felt the
power of His own indwelling spirit, and realised the great cloud that was
enveloping the whole world in spiritual darkness—the sacrifice seemed as
nothing in comparison to the great good to be gained. He heard the cry
for “Light, more Light,” as it ascended to the throne of God, and knew that
through His own life and suffering that prayer would be answered. And
we who accept the blessed lessons taught us by the life He lived, must not
forget the trials and troubles that beset Him on every hand ; when we see
the face of that Immortal One engraven on the hearts of the people, when
in searching our own hearts we find His image implanted there, we must
remember that the life, the truth, the immortahty, were all worked out,
were all gained through suffering, through trial, through even death, until
step by step He rose to that height where He could look down upon all
that His enemies could do. His fife was as foreign to the soil in which it
was placed, as these blossoms would be in the midst of snow; he was born
in an atmosphere so cold and foreign that every breath he drew was like a
chilling blast; yet His mission was upon Him, and the pathway that led from
earth to heaven was to be revealed to the world through Him. But the
so-called Christians of that time were “ deaf to the voice of the spirit; ” the
truth must come through them or not at all; and when the hearts of the
people responded to the touch of His master hand, when blessings followed
wherever He went, when the blind could see and the lame walk, His power
—which had been scorned before—began to be feared. His teachings, no
longer silenced by contempt, began to make their way, and the time had
come either to exalt Him as a God, or take away the little power He possessed.
They reasoned thus : “ This man is teaching a religion that will re-act upon
us; already the people love Him; this must be stopped. He must die.”
“ Kill Him ! Crucify Him! ” was their cry. It was not the man alone they
thought to destroy, but rather by His death to stop the progress of the
truth He represented, and to end the power He held over the people. It
was not because He had done any wrong or committed any grave offence,
but because He was telling the very lowest and meanest there was hope;
because He was telling the forsaken ones, those in trouble, the downcast, the
heavy-hearted, to look up and trust in God; that all His judgments were
tempered with mercy, and that His heart was full of love for His children.
And because He was an embodiment of this great immortal truth, He was
forced to die upon the cross. But was the truth destroyed? No! The
truth spoken once is spoken for ever. You can neyer stop the influence of a
spoken word. You may keep it in your own heart, but the moment you
breathe it forth it is no longer yours; it has gone forth from you into the
world to work either weal or woe. All the good that you speak goes from
you like rays of sunshine; the prayer in your closet sends forth its in¬
fluence, and works in the world of causes though you may not possess senses
acute enough to perceive it. Though nineteen hundred years have swept
by, and many reformers have performed their part, still, upon the page of time
no words of purity have been recorded which have ever equalled those of
Jesus. His divine thoughts born into this outer world will ring for ever and
for ever through the coming ages. Never has a soul reached such a height of
grandeur as did His when, bound, wounded, crowned with thorns, He could
yet cry out, “ Father, forgive them, they know not what they do.” Oh!
friends, you find it difficult to have charity where charity is most needed, but
you must learn to have charity even for the uncharitableness of others if you
May 2, 1879.
&15
T&E SPIRlTtlALIST.
emulate the example of one of the world’s greatest teachers. Did the world
need the resurrection ? Yes, because it was so bowed down by the super¬
stition of the time that life was devoid of meaning, and death the King of
Terrors. It has been, and is the idea of many that if they can fold their
arms and die that their trials and troubles will pass for ever out of mind.
But Jesus plainly demonstrated what death might mean. That, instead of its
being life’s evening it was its morning, and in that hour the world stood
face to face with the mightiest of mighty facts. The wounded body they
might hide amid the dark shadows of the sepulchre, but the spirit in newer
and fresher beauty had arisen to the glory of never-ending life. Prom the
day of the resurrection the law of immortality was demonstrated to the
world: the reign of bigotry ended, and, sooner or later, the whole world will
awaken to a realisation of that fact. Jesus needed the resurrection to
establish His identity, that He might pass through the experience and also
fulfil the promises He had made. That He might establish His identity !
Yes, that He might gather to Himself all the powers of His spirit, all the
elements of His life; that He might return to His followers and become their
guide and instructor. That He should answer the query of the ages: “ If
a man die shall he live again,” and complete the change of conditions before
entering in upon the glories and duties of the heavenly life. If there is one
thing the world needs to understand, it is the meaning of “ Individuality.”
Having a soul possessing intrinsic force enough to assert itself despite all
conditions, the development of the Individuality should be the chief object
of life. There are many people in this world who are never troubled by
anything except that which affects them personally; no matter how many
wars are raging, how many floods are devastating the country, they are
never disturbed so long as, well housed and warmed, they view dangers from
afar off. They never sorrow very much, they never rejoice very .much, and
the world in which they live is limited to the world of sense. It was said
when a man died, that lie “ never suffered,” “ Then,” replied a philosopher,
“ he has never lived, for life without suffering is only existence.” Only by
developing the individuality which is within each human being is the spirit-
life and its possibilities brought near to you— “ Ye must be born again.”
Round out tlie powers of the soul; complete its growth so far as is possible,
so as to take up life as a conscious entity in the spirit-world. There
are many who never having developed the powers of the soul, lose
for a time their identity; they blend with other souls like unto themselves
until the spiritual awakening comes. They are immortal, but not having
any particular individuality, do not exist as conscious souls. They are the
people who in this world have never lived beyond the material wants and
demands of their every-day lives, and when they come to spirit-life they
have left all behind them. Being born again means to develop the power of
the spirit now, not to-morrow; and blessed is he who reahses that birth;
for him the hour of resurrection has come. But to him who has never
realised this soul-life, long years of waiting are in store. There are so
many spirits from whom you have never heard a word. Why ? They have
no individual life and are therefore wholly outside your thoughts, and beyond
the power of communication with you. Spiritualism would teach you to
unfold the power of the spirit while in the earth-life so as to retain the con¬
scious entity after the change called death, and to carry forward your life-
work. In Christ this was accomplished to a remarkable degree, and the
same results possible to Him are possible for the whole world. For the
resurrected Christ there was no more the sneer and the scorn of an unthink¬
ing world, but, freed from all trammels, He was enabled to work for the
world, and And in that labour the sweetest peace and rest. Has He not
said: “ Lo, 1 am with you always to the end of the world.” Not then in
some far distant sphere is his spirit dwelling, but over the world He loved
so well, His power is thrown, and His greatest thought is to do the " will
of His Father who is in heaven.” The arisen Christ is indeed a spirit who,
loving the world, has never forsaken it, and never will so long as a single
shadow rests over it; and when you pray to the God of gods this Easter
night, let your prayer be one of gratitude to the One who went down through
the valley of death that the blessed possibility of future life might be de¬
monstrated to the world. The eastern sky is red with the rising sun, the
hills are bright with springing flowers, the air is sweet with the song of birds,
while all nature is joining in one grand anthem, and as the words float out
upon the summer air angels catoh the strain and bear it heavenward. The
burden of that song is—“ Resurrection.”
SPIRIT IDENTITY AND MATERIALISATION.
In some of the letters of Mr. Livermore, the New York
banker, to Mr. Benjamin Coleman, are the following pas¬
sages about spirit materialisation :—
Sept. 15, 1861. Copy of card written on the above date.
“ My Son,—When the atmosphere is cold, we shall have no
difficulties, no obstructions, and the promises which we have
made will be strictly fulfilled, with many blessings.
“ Of one thing let me warn you. When you sit at home,
avoid exertion of any kind; but more particularly warn those
who sit with you to avoid a// and every exertion on their part,
lest they cause involuntary movements of the table 
“ We can accomplish all without the aid of mortals 
Written communications are not tinctured by the reflection
of another mind This is why we are so happy to be
enabled to write our messages.—Benj. Fkanklin*”
Sept. 26, 1861.—A brilliant light now appeared, accom¬
panied by rustlings, and the electrical rattle, and the spirit
of my wife stood before us, enveloped in white and flowers.
(| Her face was radiant with spiritual life and beauty and
}\ expression.
(l The light appeared to be held by an outstretched arm and
)| hand passing across her waist, and showing dimly the figure
)| to which they belonged 
n After five or six appearances of my wife, the light rested
) | upon the floor some ten feet distant from me; then rising, it
) j suddenly darted across the room, passing backwards and
forwards, until having gained sufficient power, it flashed
?| brightly upon the wall, and brought into relief the entire
\ I figure of a large heavy man, who stood before us.
He was rather below the middle height, but broad-
) \ shouldered, heavy, and dressed in black. He thus appeared
?| three times very perfectly, for about a minute each time.
(j  On my asking if the spirit we saw was that of Dr.
?| Franklin, we were answered in the affirmative by three dull
) | heavy knocks upon the floor, as though made by a heavy
? i foot.
During this sitting my wife tapped me on the shoulder,
h then smoothing my hair and caressing me, while her long
j tresses, as natural as in life, dropped over my face, with thepecu-
? j liar scent of delicate, freshly-gathered violets.
A new and very curious manifestation now took place,
? | showing us how the echoes were produced, and it was spelt
)| out: u Darling, have you not been rewarded ?” The light in
}\ producing these sounds or explosions assumed a lily shape,
I nearly the size of my head, and so brilliant as to light the
h entire surface of the table and the centre of the room, so
j! that Miss Fox and I could see each other distinctly, as well.
?i as various objects in the room.
Dr. Franklin wrote:—“ We wish you to meet to-morrow
? : night, but not for the purpose of seeing us. We will not
attempt again to come in form until-we have a cold atmos-
ji. phere, but it is as well to meet often, in order to keep the
j j chain perfect. Great manifestations are in preparation for you.
i ? i I long to come again in form; but it must be on a cold
| ! night.—B. F.”
On another evening I wrote a number of questions for Dr.
m Franklin to answer, which was done categorically in writing,
! ?! on cards which I also send you. I think it only necessary to
I) i claim especial attention to the following :—
I?! Question for Dr. Franklin.
No. 1. For a test, I wish you to give me the year of your
| ? i birth.
Answer.—“ I was born in the year ITOC.’’
\h No. 2. Also of your departure ?
Atiswer.—“Departed the earth life in the year 1790, after a
j(l calm struggle for life on the night of April 17th, a little
! /1 before midnight/’
!The questions were put by me without premeditation, and
| without being seen by any one, and it is important that I
! should add, neither' I nor the medium knew the date of Dr.
! Franklin*s birth or death, which, on reference afterwards, I
was pleased and surprised to find had been correctly given
\\\ by the spirit.
m From careful observation I am led to conclude that under
i) j certain atmospheric and mental conditions, a spirit has power
( to crystallise a material form on itself; that out of the ele-
!)! ments, evanescent, but for the time being real material forms
m and objects tangible to human sense can be produced; in
I > | fine, that spiritual forms and shapes can by this process be
j (| materialised into corresponding material forms and shapes.
Mr. and Mrs. William Tubs intend to travel through portions of the
I / | United States in August next, and to leave London in the middle of July.
I ? i They will visit Washington, Philadelphia, New York,’and Boston.
! j i News constantly reaches us of the extent to which Spiritualism is pro-
j)! gressing in English society in India. It is a pity that there is no central
! ? | establishment in that country, enabling investigators to become acquainted
| (! with each other.
j > j In consequence of the haste necessitated by the great fire at the printing-
i) | office, there were several printers’ errors in The Spiritualist last week.
I ? I The date of the crystal-vision of Captain R. F. Burton, described in Mr.
i (! Hockley’s article, should have been 1853, not 1873, which makes all the
I) I difference when the facts are regarded as tests of the powers of the seer.
Ij Mr. J. J. Morse, the well-known trance lecturer, was initiated into the
1 Masonic brotherhood at the last meeting of the St. Mungo Lodge, held at
I the Masonic Hall, 213, Buchanan-street, Glasgow. Mr. Dick, W.M., Mr.
J. Coates, and Mr. J. Bowman were present and took part in the ceremony.
Mr. Morse is now on the rolls of one of the oldest chartered lodges in Great
■ Britain.
2i6
tfiE I^PlfelTXTALlSf.
May 2, l87§*
LORD YIYIAN5S PROPHETIC DREAM. j
The following letter from Lord Yivian appears in the j)
Daily Telegraph of April 17th:—“Sir,—In your leader on j(
General Taylor in this day's paper, you introduce an anecdote j)
relative to a dream of mine. The facts are these: I did dream, j (
on the morning of the race for the City and Suburban Handi-' f)
cap, that I had fallen asleep in the weighing-room of the stand j \
at Epsom prior to that race, and that after it had been run I j)
was awakened by a gentleman—the owner of another horse j y
in the race—who informed me that The Teacher had won. Of j )
this horse, so far as my recollection serves me, I had never i y
before heard. On reaching Victoria Station the first person j /
I saw was the gentleman who had appeared to me in my ! y
dream, and to him I mentioned it, observing that I could not i)
find any horse so named in the race. He replied, * There is | (
a horse now called “ Aldrich,” which was previously called j)
“ The Teacher.” ’ The dream had so vividly impressed me, | (
that I declared my intention of backing Aldrich for £100, \l
and was in course of doing this when I was questioned by his j y
owner as to ‘why I was backing his horse.’ I replied, |
I because I dreamt he had won the race.’ To this I was j j
answered: I As against your dream I will tell you this fact:
I tried the horse last week with a hurdle jumper, and he was
beaten a distance/ (I afterwards learnt that the trial horse
was Lowlander!)
“I thanked my informant and discontinued backing
Aldrich. General Taylor, who had overheard what passed,
asked me if I did not intend backing the horse again for my¬
self, to win him £1,000 by him. This I did by taking for
him 1,000 to 30 about Aldrich.
“ Such is the true account of my dream and of General
Taylor’s profit from it.—Yours faithfully, Vivian.
“ 5a, Cork Street, April 16th.” j j
Soiree.—Last Wednesday , a soiree took place at the rooms of the r>
National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, London, j /
which was largely attended. The singers and musicians who enter- j (
tained the company were the Misses Beaumont, Miss Katherine Poyntz, i y
the Misses Withall, Mr. E. A. Tietkens, Mr. It. P. Thomas, and I)
Mr. Frank Dietz. Two pictures, by A delaide Claxton, on supernatural j)
subjects, and lent by Mr. Eno, were interesting works of art. The |(
late Mr. Heaphy, the artist, once became naturally clairvoyant, and j y
painted the likeness of a lady who visited him, before he discovered j j
her to be a spirit. The portrait was subsequently fully identified by j)
her father, who longed for a likeness of her, and a full account of these i (
circumstances was published in All the Year Round. A copy, by Mr. j (
Heaphy, of this picture was on view at the soiree; it was lent by Mrs. | >
Heaphy. ))
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt. i)
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.” |
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best j /
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of i (
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD, [
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a I /
writing medium; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens. 1 (
The book also contains some i (
SPIRIT TEACHINGS, j
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).” I y
A CHEAP EDITION * v j j
of this refined work has just been published. !)
Price Thb.ee Shillings and Sixpence, post free. [)
This edition is one of the cheapest and most elegant works ever published j (
in connection with Spiritualism. i (
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London. i)
Will be Published in a pew Days, IS
Cloth, Crown 8vo, Red Edges, Price Five Shillings and Sixpence. Post Free. I)
* THE FIRST VOLUME OF j|
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES. j
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON. jj
The Book is full of evidence of Spirit-Identity. IS
The Superfine Edition, bound in half calf, Eight Shillings and Sixpence. !)
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C. j (
Just Published, i)
SPIRIT-IDENTITY, |
By “M.A. (Oxon).” |
Cloth 8vo, red edges, price 5s. post free. j (j
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O. ;}
Now ready, the Second and Concluding Volume of the
MECHANISM OF MAN:
LIFE, MIND, SOUL.
A POPULAR INTRODUCTION TO MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY.
By EDWARD W. COX, S.L.,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
Vol, II. Treating op the Mechanism in Action, Price 12s. 6d.
Vol. I. may be had, price 10s. 6d. ; the work complete, 22s. 6d.
CONTENTS :
Part II.—THE MECHANISM IN ACTION.
Book I.—The Normal Action of the Mechanism of Man.—Chapter 1. Intro¬
ductory ; 2. The Action of the Material Mechanism in Health; 3. Of Un¬
conscious Cerebration ; 4. Of Mental Sympathy and Communion ; 5. Body,
Mind, and Soul in Health.
Bookll.—TheAbnormalActionof theMechanism.—Chapter 1. Introduction
—The Psychology of the Future ; 2. How to be Pursued ; 3. Objections and
Objectors; 4. Precautions in Research; 5. Prepossession and Dominant Idea ;
6. How we Know; 7. Scientific Evidence; 8. The Plan Proposed.
Book III.—Of Sleep and Dream.—Chapter 1. What Sleep Is; 2. The
Physiology of Sleep ; 3. The Mental Condition of Sleep ; 4. The Seat of
Sleep; 5. Of Dream; 6. The Material Mechanism of Dream; 7. The Psycho¬
logy of Dream; 8. The Phenomena of Dream ; 9. The Philosophy of Dream ;
10. Conclusions.
BookIV.—The PhenomenaofDeliriumandlnsanity.—Chapter 1. Delirium;
2. Insanity.
Book V. The Phenomena of Somnambulism.—Chapter 1. Introduction ; 2.
Somnambulism ; 3. Natural Somnambulism ; 4. Artificial Somnambulism ;
5. The Phenomena of Artificial Somnambulism ; 6. The Physiology of Somnam¬
bulism ; 7. The Psychology of Somnambulism.
Book VI.—Supersensuous Perception.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. The
Phenomena of Supersensuous Perception ; 2. The Physiology and Psychology
of Supersensuous Perception.
Book VII.—Trance.—Introduction; Chapter 1. The Phenomenaof Trance ;
2. The Physiology and Psychology of Trance.
Book VIII. — Psychism. — Introduction; Chapter 1. Objections and
Objectors; 2. The Witnesses; 3. Psychic Force; 4. The Methods of Inves¬
tigation ; 5. The Phenomena of Psychism ; 6. The Psychic; 7. The Physio¬
logy of Psychic. Force; 8. The Directing Intelligence; 9. Phenomena of
Psychism; 10. More Phenomena of Psychism; 11. Other Phenomena of
Psychism; 12. Communicated Phenomena; 13. The Physiology and Psy¬
chology of Psychism.
Book IX.—The Argument.*—Chapter 1. The Summing up; 2. Conclusions.
LONGMAN AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW.
Just Published.
. Price One Shilling. Cloth, Red edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spirit¬
ualism, and setting forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
BY
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions on Religious
Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : Its Place
and Function — Religion and Dogma — Psychism and Spiritualism — The
Philosophy of Inspiration and Revelation—Christianity: Its Place andHuman
Elements.
London : Trubner and Co., 57 and 69, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Will he published in a Few Days.
Price 2s. 6d.,.Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges,
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS,
By Captain John James
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
E* A text-book by an author who has had thirty years’ experience in
Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
ByP.P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other kitems of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer. ”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
May 2, 187&.
ttHE SPIRITtJALiST.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHO¬
LOGY, MESMERISM, ANTHROPO¬
LOGY, AND BIOLOGY.
Price Five Shillings. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new book by
"M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY.
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harnson, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 38, Oreat Russell Street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has
been rented on the premises of the National Association of
Spiritualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist News¬
paper and publishing business are not in any way connected
with each other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crooks, F.R.8. The best work
ever published to scientifically demonstrate the reality
of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to
reveal to him by vision events connected with the early
history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus
saw the Mastodon and other extinct animals as if living
and moving before them; they likewise saw the scenes
. by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions
of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation
of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engrav¬
ings, drawn by the sensitives as the visions passed
before their eyes. The substance of a review of this
book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect that there
is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants
who would not cheat him. The question as to the
reliability of the narratives therefore narrows itself down
to the question of the reliability of clairvoyance, which,
when employed to gain information about distant places
bn earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate
results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary
communication should be established, it will be by
means of clairvoyance or some other of the latent and
little understood spiritual powers in man. Three vols.
ills. ; or 8s. per single volume.
WORKS BI ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughlceepsie Seer." s. d»
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . .76
The Teacher. ,, II. ,, . .76
The Seer. „ III. ,, .,76
The Reformer. ,, IV. „ . .76
The Thinker. >> V. „ ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis .76
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology . .60
Answers to Ever-recurrring Questions from the People. 7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . ,20
Death and the After-Life . . ..36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . , '3 6
Harbinger of Health , , . , .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) .. ,76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life: or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves. .70
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . .60
Tale of a Physician; or Seeds and Fruits of Crime . 6 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS.
Oriental Religion (Johnson) . . . .. 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little
book, recommended by The Spiritualist news¬
paper ... . . . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing
interesting particulars and legends relating to
Buddhism . . . . . . 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . , . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale
Owen . . . '. . ..76
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the
Zulus, by the Rev Henry Gallaway, M.D. In six
parts . . b . . . . ' . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into
English, with Preliminary Essays and Explana¬
tory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions
interpreted by Comparative Mythology, by John
Fiske, M.A. . . . . . . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an
Indian Officer . . , . . .60
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into
English from the Chinese Classes, by James Legge,
D.D., LL.D 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged)
Explanation of the Mysteries of Modem Spirtual-
ism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital
Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Anaes¬
thesia, and Nervous Congestions, by Robert H.
Collyer, M.D. . . . . . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P.
Brown, Secretary of the Legation of the United
States of America at Constantinople . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia,
North Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin
Thorpe. In three vols. . . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahom-
med. Translated into English immediately from
the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
Illustrated with Diagrams.
SYNOPSIS OP CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: GuldenstubbS—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That attested by the senses :—
1. —Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Bams, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. —Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr.
George King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls,
Baroness Von Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.
Valter, J. L, O’Sullivan, Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John
Wetherbee, H. B. Storer, O. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee
with Watkins.
II. —From the Writing of Languages unknown to the
Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr.
Blackburn (Slade) ; Dutch, German, French, Spanish,
Portuguese (Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame
Blavatsky (Watkins); Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timay-
enis (Watkins); Chinese (Watkins).
III. —From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Prepa¬
ration of the Writing :—
Psychics and Conjurers Contrasted; Slade before the
Research Committee of the British National Association of
Spiritualists. Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.;
Evidence of—Rev. J. Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J.
Seaman (Slade); Writing within Slates securely screwed
together—Evidence of Mrs.'Andrews and J. Mould; Dicta¬
tion of Words at the Time of the Experiment—Evidence of—
A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P.,
Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld, M.D., Miss
Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside a
Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of
Circumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck
were conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with
White Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the subject of the
Prosecution of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and
Professor Barnett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: its Mode of Operation—Evidence
of C. Carter Blake, Doc. Soi., and Conrad Cooke, O.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the IntelliKence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Oculist’s Theory; The Spirit¬
ualist’s Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Appa¬
ritions—The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox,
J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers, D. D. Hume, and
Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II. — Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—Emerson
—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits atJMoravia, N.Y.,
and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—
Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship
of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Ex¬
periments—r Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by
Mr. William.Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialec¬
tical Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Sub¬
stances? — Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits —
Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Descartes—Spinoza
—Herbert Spencer—Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power
over Matter—^Testimony of S, C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit — The Senses—
Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine
of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship — Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes,
Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dumphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmore,
Mrs, Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—Conclusive Experi¬
ments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr.
G. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seer-
ship—Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge
— Bacon — Luther—Calvin — Plutarch—Charles Bonnet-
Materialisation of Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XH.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena'.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in
God — Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine
Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—
The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Mora'ity — Sin
Punishes Itself — A Moral Creed — The Teachings of
Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections
to Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe—
James Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit Photo-
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—
Concluding Reflections.
„ London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
iii
Price 6s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.” .
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritu¬
alists. A useful book to place in the public libraries, and to
present or send to those who are unacquainted with Spiritu¬
alism. It contains much about the religious aspect of
Spiritualism (given through the writing mediumship of
" M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of the most refined and elegant
works ever printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through
the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens.
How the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist,
Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a Secret; A Majestic Mind
Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peck-
craft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon
(Miss Treheme) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-medium¬
ship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XHI.—Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A.,
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marrj at.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von
Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.-G.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem Spiritual¬
ism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism. By
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kisling¬
bury from the German of Schiller.
XXVII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Chris¬
tianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat,
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIH .—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Wortherington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVH.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritu-
alism.
XXXVIII —Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in
India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Beme; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig )
by Emily Kislingbuxy.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Calder.
Xbl.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By.Gerald Massey.
XLIH.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation
to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLTV.—Immortality. ByAlfredRusselWallace,F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infer*
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; Post free for l£d.; or six copies post free for
6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW
Is now issued Monthly at 6d., or 7s. per annum,
sent free by post.
Post Office orders payable to the publishers.
Hay Nisbet and Co., 62, Ropework - Lane, Glasgow.
CONTENTS FOR APRIL.
Ourselves and Science; by Dr. Hitchman—Spiritual Mani¬
festations ; by Thos. Brevior—What is it ? by Rev. J. P.
Hopps—Garland of Legends, from Montalembert’s Monks of
the West; by A. M. W.—A Woman’s Word on Divine Judg¬
ment ; by J. W. F.—Inspiration, No. III.: The Myth of the
Logos; by Mrs. De Morgan—William Howitt (with two
engravings); by S. C. Hall—A Student’s Sea Story; by Mrs,
H. B. Stowe—At Nesper; by T. S.
London; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-l^ne.
Glasgow : • H. Nisbet and Co., 62, Ropework-lane.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAK^R
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can
be given. 6 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
i i
IV,
Just Publishea,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo,
richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton
and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay pf the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the News¬
paper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The
Castle.—6. Tbe Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.
—7. How Hadji A1 Shacabao was Photographed. (A letter '
from Hadji A1 Shacabac, a gentleman who visited London
on business connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at
Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gardener.—
11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12 Our Raven.—13. Material¬
istic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Photographer.—IS. How
to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song 0$
the Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old
Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-
Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23, “Under the
Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence-
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at
Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s Lament.—29.
The July Bug.—30. The Converted Carman.
Opinions or the Press.
From The Morning Post,
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in
review nearly a column long, says :—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves the eprhet seems to be rapidly becoming
a thing of the past j consequently any writer who, like Mr.
Harrison, exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the
praise of all who are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent
laugh. Not that his muse restricts herself only to such
lighter utterances ; on the contrary, some of his poems
touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . . . The unfortunate badji’s narrative of his
adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years.
. . . The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome
from which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The
Morning Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes are
pitched in “ something like the same key as The Bon
Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably
successful result.’ ’
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally we find verse
of great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure
poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour
should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings.
Written, printed, published and reviewed by William H.
Harrison (38, Great Russell-street). Both the verses and the
short essays are really funny, and in some of the jatter there
is a vein of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun.
The Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather severe,
and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers ; but one of the most
laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he went to be
photographed-,”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse. . . . Some of the
metrical legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be
sung at the meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or
fifteen years ago. Mr. Harrison, however, knows where to
plant his fun, and an accurate scientific mind like his can
make jokes with success. ... To all who wish to read a
pleasant volume magnificently got up as a gift-book, we
commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Boohseller.
“ An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and otheis in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original,
and not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases
alluded to, and the imprint bears that the work is published
‘ a.i). 1877 (popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ;
a.m. 60,800,077 (Huxley).’ We believe that our readers
may derive a little amusement from a perusal of the
volume.’ ’
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of
which are in verse and others in prose, some scientific,
others social, but all of them excellent. . . . The Lazy Lays
will make excellent and amusing reading for an occasional
spare half-hour. . . . They contain nothing unrefined or in
bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photo¬
graphed, is well done. . . . Bound in a cover of somewhat
powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar
in connection with photographic and other scientific
literature, has considerable facility of versification, and
deals, in pleasant and humorous mood, with many scientific
follies which are better laughed down than gravely dis¬
puted.”
From The Scotsman.
" In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with
a due foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has
produced a most welcome book. . . . ‘ How Hadji A1
Shacabac was Photographed ’ will be sure to make every
reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be
expected that his subjects should bear some trace of this
peculiar idiosyncrasy, and indeed they are as free and easy
ThE spiritualist.
as himself. ... The poems are all characterised by smooth¬
ness and rhythmical swing. . .’. Theworkis very elaborately
bound in cloth and gilt A.gorgeous design upon the'
cover. ... If our readers wish to- encourage laziness they
have a most deserving object in a very clever and versatile
member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays,
Mr. William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its
appearance and entertaining in its contents. . . . The author
is imbued with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all
while offending none ”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison*
a well-known contr.butor to the London and provincial
press, and editor of The Spiritualist. . . . Many of the
humorous poems reminds us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The
Lay of tlie Photographer, The Lay of the Mace-bearers, and some
oi The Wobblejaw Ballads would not have been unworthy of
Barham himself. Some of the shorter poems are exquisite,
and there pervade through the whole a religious sentira ent
and poetie feeling which will make them acceptable to most
readers.”
From the Daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji A1 Shacabac
was Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not
too extensive comic literature. The story is one of which
extracts would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely
humorous. . . . Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-
book of an amusing nature, will find what they want in The
Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post,
“ A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit. . . . The serious and sentimental verses belong to
the type of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
“It is after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain,
or any of those merry souls who do quite as much good in
their day and generation as the authors of the most serious
works. The Lays are always original, sometimes serious,
generally comic, but never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty ;
full of lively imaginiugs and bold outspoken thoughts,
abounding in tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit
and humour; and one that may be read many times over. ..
. . The get-up of the book is very handsome.”
From The Follcestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled ‘ The Wobblejaw Ballads,’
which appeared in the columns of this paper a short time
ago, and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B.
An irate member of the Town Council officially called the
attention of the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the
burlesques in the ‘ W obblejaw Ballads,’ but the members
assembled laughed at the matter, and proceeded to the next
business. The Mayor said that he did not mind them.] . . .
“ It contains some very choice poems and prose essays, is
bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original design of no
ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Id.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THK SOCIAL, MORAL, AND
RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY". Two Essays by
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green,
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals or
the British National Association or Spiritualists.
27ie (fipmtaaZisi Newspaper Branch Office, London.
HE TRAPPED MEDIUM; or, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Proto¬
plaster, in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It
is an excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men and disbelievers in Spiritualism generally. A review
of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet
displays real genius. Price 6d.; post free, 6ld. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
T MRS. PARKER’S, 3, BLOOMSBURY
PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,LONDON, W.C.,
a Philosophical and Developing Circle is being formed.
Those wishing to join will please send in their names. Terms
on application.
Mrs. Parker’s healing power is rapidly developing into
clairvoyance; she is replying to sealed questions when con¬
ditions favour. Office hours from 12 to 6 o’clock.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena
for a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner
with the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d- each; postage 8d. per volume.
London : Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size
of those of The Engineer newspaper), strongly and hand¬
somely bound in one, in half calf, red edges. They contain
records relating to Spiritualism in Great Britain from the end
of the year 1869 to the end of 1872, and ai tides and letters
by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F. Varley, The
Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of how
the Royal Society and British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr.
Crookes’s papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism,
as the Royal Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery
of lightning conductors. Very scarce. These two volumes
cannot be had separately. Price; carriage paid to any rail¬
way station in the United Kingdom, £1 10s.
London ; W, H, Harjuson, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
May 2, 1879.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By (he late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to TIis Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its
quality and size, the cheapest large work ever published in
this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—
Sensations—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep
or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-
Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over
the Subject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feel¬
ings in the Look and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthful¬
ness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep
Caused by Silent Will ; and at a Distance—Attraction
Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Com¬
mands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations *
of Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhi¬
bitions of Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the By¬
standers—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medica
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Anti¬
pathies—Existence of a Peculiar Ferce or Influence.
CHAPTE R IV: —Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision,
without the Eyes—Vision oi Near Object: through Opaque
Bodies ; at a Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in
Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER VLucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc..
Predicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of
the Seer—Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting
Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—
Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of
Speech and of Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—
Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI :—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-
Psychology and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Pheno¬
mena of Suggestions in the Conscious or Waking State—
Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised
by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The
Author's Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The
Subj ect must be Studied.
CHAPTER VTI :—Trance, Natural and Accidental ;
Mesmeric—Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col.
Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not all Impostors—
Luminous Emanations — Extasis oiten Predicted — M.
Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phre¬
nology-Effects of Teaching the Head in the Sleep—Variety
in the Phenomena—Suggestions—Sympathy—There are
Cases in which these. Act, and others in which they do not
Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible
of Mesmerism—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—
Sympathy of Animals—Snail Telegraph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the
Human Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is
Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the
Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylio
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—
Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of Mesmerism-
Physiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insanity,
Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traceu to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight
is Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena
Attempted or Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally
Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the Medium of
Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of
the Subject—Effects of Odyle— Somnambulisn—Suggestion-
Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Eman¬
ations—Odylic Traces followed Up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc..
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid
Perception of the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of
Science—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints
—Conditions of Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure
—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious
or Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an
Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and With¬
out Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—
Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or
by Concentration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The
Magic Crystal Induces Waking Lucidity, when Gazed at—
Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—
Cases—Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the
Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced with¬
out the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—
Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathic Clairvoyance in
the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Frank¬
lin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XTV :—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travel¬
ling Clairvoyance—Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—
Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—Clairvoyance of
Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV :—Trance1—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous
Mesmeric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions,
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Con¬
cluding Remarks, and Summary."
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevebidge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Alien, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E,C,
