Registered as a Newspaper.
JP iStel rnmtecf^b toit| Spritualism m feat |SntaitT.
No 413.—(Yol. XVII.—No.'lpi) LONDON: FRIDAY, JULY 23, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
, Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
Demy 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges. Price 12s. 6d. Post Free. Will be ready in a few days.
ILLUSTRATED BY VARIOUS FULL PAGE AND DOUBLE PAGE ENGRAVINGS.
TRANSCENDENTAL PHYSICS.
AN ACCOUNT OF EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS FROM THE SCIENTIFIC TREATISES OF
JOHANN CARL FRIEDRICH ZOLLNER,
Professor of Physical Astronomy at the University of Leipsic ; Member of the Royal Saxon Society of Sciences ; Foreign Member of the
Royal Astronomical Society of London; of the Imperial Academy of Natural Philosophers at Moscow; and Honorary Member of the
Physical Association at Frankfort-on-the-Main.
TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN, WITH A PREFACE AND APPENDICES, BY
CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY, (of Lincoln’s inn, Barrister-at-Law.)
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33. Museum Street, London, W.C.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING- LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STEEET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-look by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, 4 Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the berefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited witn naving written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar.to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 23, 1880.
ALLAN KAKDEC’S WOBKS.
MB. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
ALLAN KABDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbtjbner and Co., London.
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Stemway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
• By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent - cures of
Gout, Bheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
A New Invention.
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing.
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES M A L T B Yj
Very Stylish in
HEALING BY LAYING ON OF HANDS
DR. JAMES MACK,
37, Upper Baker Street Regent’s Park.
At Home from 10 till 5.
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W-
STEINWAY HALL,
Lower Seymour Street, Portman Square.
A COMPLIMENTARY SOIREE
Will be held at the above Hall, on
TUESDAY EVENING, JULY 21 th.
It is proposed that a Farewell Testimonial should be presented to Mr. and Mrs.
J. W. FLETCHER, expressing the appreciation of the great body of Spiritualists of the
noble work done by them during their stay in England, and warm wishes for their
speedy return.
Sofa Stalls, 5s, Stalls, 2s. 6d. Unreserved Seats, Is.
Tickets may be obtained of Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, 19, Cambridge Street, Hyde Park, W.;
of Mrs. Maltby, 27, Great Coram Street, Russell Square ; and at the Hall.
S PIR ITU ALISM:—TRANCE DISCOURSE.
MRS. CORA L. V. RICHMOND
(Formerly Mrs. Tappan)
Will deliver a discourse under the control of her spirit guides in
ST. JAMES’S HALL
(Entrance in Regent Street)
THURSDAY EVENINGS, JULY 22nd, 29th, AND AUGUST 5th, AT 8 O’CLOCK.
To close with an improvised poem. Tickets 2s., Is., and 6d. maybe obtained by letter of
Mrs. Strawbridge, 4, Dorset Square, N.W., or at the Hall on the evening.
Price 5s. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth. Red edges. The new Book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY; OR DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING
Illustrated with diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O.
Just Published.
TEE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
xhis book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
Dy the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
D. YOUNGER,
Mesmerist, Mesmeric Healer, Medical Rubber,
gives private instructions. Mesmeric Seances and
Electro-biological Entertainments at Home or by
appointment. Can also supply Mesmeric Sensitives
for Private Experiments, At Home daily from 2 till 10.
23, Ledbury-road, Bayswater, W.
"jVTDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
J-i-L Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE Any form
Of Mediumship developed. Mesmeric Healing
at home daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from 1
to 5 p.m., 4, Keppel-street, Russell-square, 'W'.C.
pHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone road, Earls-coiiit, S.'W.
Two Shillings and Sixpence, in Stamps, free by post.
U^HEOISOPHY, and the Higher Life:
JL or Spiritual Dynamics and the Divine and
Miraculous Man. By George Wyld, M.D., President
British Theosophical Society. Contents: Man as a
Spirit—The Key to Theosophy—The Divine and Mira,
culous Man—How best to become a Theosopbist—
Anaesthetics Demonstrate the existence of the Soul—
The British Theosophical Society.
Trubner, Ludgate Hill, or David Scott. 164, Oxford
Steeet.
A RLISS ANDREWS, Letterpress,
-OL Copperplate, and Lithographic Printer, 31,
Museum .street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Three doors
from Great Russell-street.
Hell opened to Chris¬
tians.—This is one of the most objectionable
orthodox books ever published, and contains pictures
of the infernal regions calculated to strike terror into
the hearts of children and people with weak nerves.
Cloth, eight illustrations. Post free sevenpence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch office, 33, Museum
Street, London, W.C.
ALLEGORICAL SKETCHES,
IX. FOUNDED ON SPIRITUAL TRUTHS.
1. The Inward Light. 2. A Lost Love Found. 3. The
Two Voices. 4. The Invisible Teacher. Price la 6d.
Victoria Steam Press, 117, PraedStreet, London, W.
pHINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Ea> then ware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment svstem
J. M. DALE,
50, Crawford-street, Bryanston-square, London,
]L xrf |)ttugq$$ xif ^ mtb ui
No. 413.—YOLUME SEVENTEEN; NUMBER EOUE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 23r<]v 18 8 0.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
HEALING BY LAYING ON OF HANDS.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
IOs. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist :—
His Imperial Highness Ni-i Prince Emile de Sayn Witt-
cholas op Russia, Duke of genstein (Wiesbaden)
Leuchtenberg Baron Yon Dibckinck-Holm-
Thk Lord Lindsay fkld (Holstein)
The Right Hon. the Countess J. W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
of Caithness the Supreme Court, New York.
The Baroness Von Vay, Coun- The Count de Bullet
tess Wurmbrand (Austria) The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,) M. Adelberthde Bourbon,First
formerly American Minister at Lieut, of the Dutch Guard to
the Court of Naples | the King of the Netherlands
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
St. Petersburg Favre)
Sir Charles Isham, Bart. William Crookes, Esq., F.R S.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S. C. F. Varley, Esq.,C.E.,F.R.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq., St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
F.R.G.S., M.A., (Oxon)
C. C. Massey, Esq. R. Fbiese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
the Psychological Society of Epes Sargent, Esq.
Great Britain Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
Alexander Calder, Esq., Pres- J.P.
ident of the British National Dr. George Wyld
Association of Spiritualists W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President M.D., Melbourne
of the Theosophical Society of J. C. Luxmoobe, Esq., J.P.
New York C. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Gerald Massey, Esq. Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme) C.E.
Captain John James i Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
S. 0 Hall, Esq., F.S.A. M.S. Tel. E.
F Podmobe, Esq., B.A. (Oxon). |j. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall (Cantab)
IjUGene Crowell, Esq., M.D., D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
New York M (Cantab)
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., T. P. Bareas, Esq., F.G.S.
Edinburgh J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D. Mrs. Showers
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies, William Newton,Esq..F.R.G.S.
D.D. H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
II. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I. John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
C Blackburn, Esq., Parkfield, India
Didsbury, near Manchester William White, Esq.
Mrs. Louisa Lowe I Miss Florence Marryat
J. T. Mabkley, Esq. Madame Isabel de Steiger
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 33, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josef stand, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 81, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 61 East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S. ; Jteligio-Philosophical Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
Perhaps no life devoted to mediumship
j)j can be looked back upon with more pleasure
and less regret than one employed in healing
\>\ the sick. With good healers the power is so
j>j efficacious that it is unusual for a day to pass
! | without some one person having been relieved
{<] from prolonged suffering, and often of such a
l^j nature as to have been pronounced by doctors
P| as beyond the influence of medical skill. In
j$j every home the alleviation of suffering by mes¬
ial merism can often be effected, but in healing
Kj mediumship psychical healing powers are en-
j>! hanced. The medium sometimes temporarily
|)| takes on the pains of the sufferer to an excru-
K; dating degree, he in rare instances obtains
;Vl spiritual revelations not only about the disease
pi of the patient, but the ailments of his distant
|)| relatives, and he is usually more sensitive in
Rj every way than an ordinary mesmerist.
For some years past various newspapers in
j>j this country have teemed with reports of the
S| cures effected through the healing mediumship
pj of Dr. James Mack, and a perfectly autkenti-
k! cated and astounding case of relief given by
| i him from the sufferings of most of a lifetime,
l)| was published in detail in these pages a few
pi weeks ago. An outline of the life and some
pj of the experiences of Dr. Mack has just been
Pi published under the title of Healing by Laying
|S| on of Hinds, (Burns, 1880), containing facts of
|<| considerable humanitarian and philosophical
pi interest. Dr. Mack says that when he was five
i>! years old, and recovering from a severe illness,
| he had a vision, giving him an insight into one
1)! of the spheres of spirit existence. He adds —
p| “ The next phenomenon of a spiritual nature
!>! that occurred in my experience took place
| > | when I was eleven years of age. One even-
p| ing, as I was running a race with some play-
j>! fellows, I found myself partially lifted from
pi the ground, and felt my limbs controlled by
|>l the spirit of an Indian boy, and I became
pi frightened, fearing that I should never recover
p| the use of my legs, or that they would run
|>| away with me, or that I should meet with
j) some mishap. I ran so swiftly under this
pj novel impulsion, that I outstripped all my
38 THE SPIEI
companions. No inconvenience, happily at- j?
tended my pedestrian effort. I do not recollect |>
having any spiritual experiences, from the one IS
just recorded until the year 1857, when I j<
began "to inquire into modern Spiritualism, k
being at that time one of the most sceptical of |>
unbelievers. I was at this time introduced to j>
a medium named John A. Bassett, of Salem, $
Mass., U.S., with a view to my detecting fraud R
in his mediumship.”
The incidents of the seance led him to think IS
seriously of Spiritualism, for some of the K
leading incidents of his past life were narrated !?
to him. He was told that he had various 1>
spirit guardians, including “the bright and js
angelic being, Irene,” who on a subsequent K
occasion gave him, through the medium, a j<
poem on “ Angel Yisitants,” from which the l|
following lines are extracted:—
>
“ They come to you at twilight, ethereal and fair,
And n ith the creeping shadows steal softly round j<
your chair;
They fold their arms about you, and whisper words i(
of love.
Such as winged seraphs speak in yonder world |
above.
One, with long bright golden hair, and dreamy hazel I
eyes, . j>
Whispers, ‘I am truly happy in my home beyond j<
the skies ;
And I fain would have you with me, but that cannot <
be now,
Yet a little while must earth-life bind its chaplet on j)
thy brow.’
They with their lovely forms so fair, arrayed in spot- K
less white,
Come, and with sweetest melody take from your j<
heart the night;
They paint in glowing language the beauties of that i)
clime,
Aye, far beyond the cloudless blue, and past the |)
bounds of time;
Where the light of joy ne’er fadeth, and sorrow K
never comes
To mar the holy lustre of their resplendent homes.
They tell you of a fountain that issues from God’s |)
throne,
Upon whose crystal waters the storm fiend is un- j*
known ;
Whose wavelets seem to murmur as they lave the ji
blessed shore:
‘Oh, ye longing hearts and weary, drink deep and j!
The spirits also told him that he would be- r
come a public healer, and the sooner he began, j
the better. He adds :—
“ Shortly afterwards an opportunity was !
afforded me of testing my powers as a healing |
medium. At the time I was visiting in the |!
country, where I met a lady acquaintance who l
was suffering from what was pronounced to be |;
erysipelas in the hip. She was quite unable j|
to walk, except when aided by crutches. She !
T U A L I S T. July 23, 1880
had been in the sad state which she was
presented to me in for nine years. I was in¬
duced to try to relieve her. I placed one
hand upon her hip, and held one of her hands
in the other one. In a short time the room
became filled with a disagreeable odour, similar
to that experienced when a corpse is in the
house. On rising to open the door and
windows to air the room, I was astonished to
find my hands and arms were very much
swollen, even up to the elbow. My arms were
also streaked with a black and blue discolo¬
ration. These appearances were accompanied
by sensations of violent burning and itching
in the parts affected. Becoming exceedingly
alarmed, I had recourse to the pump in the
yard, and had water pumped on my arms,
allowing it to run from the elbows downwards.
This treatment in a few minutes had the effect
of entirely relieving me from these disagree¬
able symptoms. After an interval of twenty
minutes, finding myself all right again, I
returned to the task of curing the patient,
renewing my procedure as before. I then
made passes downwards to the feet, after
which the patient was able to walk, with only
a stick to assist her. This satisfied me that I
had the power of healing, and I continued to
exercise the gift in a quiet way, at various
times, as occasion offered.
“ While on a visit to England in J 862, walk¬
ing the streets of London, on the Surrey side
of the Thames, I met a man named William
Maynard. Strolling by the side of him, I
exclaimed, ‘ What is the matter with you ? ’
He said, ‘ Nothing.’ ‘ Yes, there is,’ I rejoined. *
Maynard then said that his foot was sore, and
asked how I knew there was anything the
matter with it ? I replied that ‘ I felt there
was something wrong with it.’ In admitting
the fact of his foot’s lameness, he used an ex¬
pression more emphatic than polite. ‘ Well,
never mind,’ I replied ; (you will not feel any
more of it from this moment.’ Some few
years after, Maynard called upon me in Salem,
Mass., U.S., and reminded me of the occur¬
rence, stating he had been shot in the heel by
a spent bullet, some years before he met me in
London, and the wound would not heal; but
from the moment I encountered him it healed,
and had never troubled him since.
<( In the year 1871,1 had occasion to visit the
late Mrs. Mary Hardy, the well-known
medium, of Boston, TT.S., then residing in that
city. I met her at the door, in company with
another lady who was about to leave; but
Mrs. Hardy requested her to stay, saying,
39
July 23, 1880
THE SPIRITUALIST.
1 Here is Dr. Mack, who will answer your
purpose.’ Although I had declined being
called upon to act in a public capacity, I was
induced to take a seat in the drawing-room.
Mrs. Hardy retired, and the lady informed me
that she was not practically acquainted with
the system of magnetic healing, and she had
no faith in it whatever. She had heard a
great deal respecting it which she did not
credit. If she met with a practitioner of the
system who could tell her what was the
matter with her without her having to answer
any questions, she would believe there was
some truth in it. I thereupon not only told
her what was the matter with her, but when,
and how, her illness came about, and pro¬
nounced her well. She immediately rose to
her feet, took a few steps across the room,
and, finding herself free from pain, exclaimed:
f For God’s sake, who are you ? ’ at the same
time Exhibiting a well-filled purse, telling me
to help myself. I declined. Neither would I
tell her who or what I was, or my residence.
I begged her to be seated, saying I had more
to say to her. ‘ You have,’ I said, ‘ a daughter
at home, madam, about fourteen years of age,
who fell backwards when about three years of
age and injured her back ; her right shoulder is
now out of place, so much so, that she is con¬
siderably deformed. It is now twelve o’clock
—mark the time—when you arrive home you
will find your daughter well, from this
moment.’ In a few days afterwards I called
upon Mrs. Hardy, and she informed me that
the lady had returned to her and reported
that the statements made by me were true in
every particular; that when she arrived home
she questioned her daughter, who said that
she was awakened from sleep and saw a very
large man standing over her, with his hand
•upon her shoulder, and that he put the de¬
formed part back into its place, causing her to
feel great pain at the time; but ‘ now it is
nicely,’ she said.
“ I am told by the spirits that my medical
guide, ‘ Samoset,’ stood seven feet and a half
high, in earth-life.”
In 1874, Dr. Mack began as a public healer,
in Boston, Massachusetts, and he subsequently
practised for one month only, in Havana, Cuba.
In May, 1875, he came to England, and has
since then been highly successful in healing
the sick in this country. Plenty of authenti¬
cated cures are recorded in the book, which is
unpretentious in its style, and recognises the
powers of his fellow-mediums, as well as those
of the great healers of past times.
We append three cases of cure, selected
s somewhat at hap-hazard, so not necessarily the
< best in the book :—
CURE OF GOITRE.
Mrs. Harriet Esttead, Maude Villa, Cam-
| | bridge Boad, South Gunnersbury, London,
a writes to The Medium, February 1st, 1878 :—
<c I have an earnest desire to again recall
K| attention to the remarkable cure performed by
< Dr. Mack, who has recently returned to Eng-
?| land. Until lately I was not aware that he
>1 had done so, or I should have mentioned this
S cure sooner, through your widely circulated
<! periodical. I gave an account of it at the
I | time of the cure, now nearly two years since,
!>j but I feel anxious again to give these im-
K| portant facts, for public notice. I feel that
Rj it is my duty to do so, as I have not had the
I slightest return of the affection of the throat
>] from which I was suffering, and which induced
< me to try Dr. Mack’s healing power. A
I?| swelling of the right side of the throat had
|>| been going on for some time, and at last
j)j became alarming, as the pressure internally
jsj was so great that I had much difficulty in
K swallowing any substance. I had tried to
I?| gain relief, but nothing removed it; and see-
1)1 ins: an advertisement in the Medium stating
|<| that Dr. Mack received patients for cure
la under healing magnetic power, I determined
|)| to try what effect this power might have.
K| Accordingly my husband took me to Dr.
k| Mack’s consulting-room. I carefully wrapped
|?j my throat up, wearing a fur collar and other
|>j things, so that by no possibility could the
)i swelling be visible, and neither my husband
|)| nor myself gave the doctor the slightest hint
k| as to what illness I had come to consult him
j)[ for. He requested me to sit down, and took
|)| both my hands in his; this produced in me a
|)j sleepy feeling; he all at once turned to my
j?j husband and said, t( How long has she had
j>j this swelling in her throat ? Don’t be alarmed
s about it; it is not a tumour; it is a goitre—a
. glandular swelling.” I then uncovered my
!?| throat, and Dr. Mack placed his hands over
|)| the swelling; it was arranged that he should
|s| attend me at my residence, Richmond, Surrey,
|)| which he did, and after a few visits, under
]?] his magnetic treatment, the swelling entirely
!)| disappeared, and I have never had the slightest
) return. This is all the more extraordinary
Rj as I was aware that it was an hereditary
|>| complaint, my mother having suffered much
j)j from large swellings on both sides of the
j | throat, and a sister also, when young, had a
Rj tendency to it. This cure was not the only
40
THE SPIEITUALIST.
result of the doctor’s magnetism, but my I)
general health was so much improved that, b
from being able to walk only a very, short \k
distance, I could walk up the hill, and on the b
terrace, and home, without resting—a thing I |>
had not done for more than two years.”
As Dr. Priese says in another column, the js
power coming forth from mediums is not k
“Magnetism,” indeed it bears no resemblance j>
to it. But we have not substituted an appro- D
priate word in the foregoing certificate.
A lilFE-LONG AILMENT CTTKED
Mrs. Francis A. E. Hudson, of Louis Street, j)
Leeds, writes under date of August 6th, i>
1878:—
£C In January, 1878, having a cold settled |?
on the chest, with symptoms of bronchitis, I ||
consulted Dr. Mack. He proceeded to treat jS
me, by placing one hand upon my chest and K
the other on my back between the shoulders. |!
He had scarcely commenced his treatment, |>
when he asked, ‘What have you wrong here |>
with your back ? ’ His question startled me K
considerably, as I had in no way hinted that I?
anything was the matter there; but I replied, \\
‘That is an old difficulty, doctor—consti- js
tutional, I am told; but as no one has hitherto K
been able either to explain what it is or to !?
cure it, I suppose I must bear it:’ I informed j/
him that for as long as I could remember any- K
thing—certainly for at least thirty-five years— j<
I had suffered from great weakness, having !?
been obliged all through life to rest for a con- b
siderable time each day in a recumbent position. jS
All kinds of treatment had been tried, but K
nothing gave relief. The allopaths had at R
various times blistered me, and painted me |>
with iodine. Some doctors stated that my K
lungs were diseased, while others said I was K
suffering from a spinal affection. After my R
marriage, I was treated homoeopathically, with |;
great advantage to my general health, but with jS
no benefit to the old complaint.
“ In five minutes, however, Dr. Mack’s k
treatment relieved me entirely, and I have !?
had no return of the difficulty since, and I do jS
not have to lie down during the day as hereto- l<
fore Dr. Mack stated that the difficulty arose k
from an affection of a nerve in the back. I j;
scarcely know which is the most wonderful— \S
his discovery of the disease without the |<
slightest information from me, or its complete k
cure by his treatment.
“I am anxious, for the encouragement and |)
benefit of others, to put my case on record, Is
as it was one that had defied the skill of the j<
combined ‘ pathies ’ in medicine, and had been I?
July 23, I860
a life-long source of discomfort and incon¬
venience ; but instant and permanent relief
resulted from Dr. Mack’s treatment, and that,
too, when I least expected it, as, having been
so often disappointed before, I concluded that
a cure was impossible, and I did not even
think of consulting Dr. Mack upon the dis¬
order.
“ I have recently been treated by Dr. Mack
for the results of a severe strain with equal
success.”
• CURE OF DEAFNESS.
The date of the following is June 16th,
1879
“ When two years of age, I had scarlet fever,
which left deafness. I could scarcely hear
anything, and then only by the greatest effort
on the part of those talking to me, who were
obliged to speak to me at the top of their voice,
frequently having to repeat their words many
times before I could understand them.. This
continued until almost the first week in April
of the present year, when I called upon Dr.
Mack, who at once proceeded to treat me.
“ He held his hands over my ears for a few
minutes, and afterwards he breathed into the
ears through two thicknesses of a towel folded
and laid over my ears for the purpose. In
about twenty minutes, he had entirely cured
me, so that I could hear as well as anyone
could wish to.
“ I am now nineteen years of age, and during
seventeen years I have on several occasions had
advice and treatment of several medical men
and physicians, among whom were Dr. Richard¬
son, of Whitechapel, and Dr. Allen, of St.
Mary’s Hospital. Dr. Allen recommended an
operation about five years ago, which I did not
agree to.
“ My general health improved, but my deaf¬
ness was never relieved or cured until Dr,
Mack treated me, and to him I am indebted for
the great blessing of having my hearing restored,
and that without money consideration what¬
ever. “ Susan Dowsett.
“Heath Cottage.”
“ The above statement I believe to be per¬
fectly correct. The girl, Susan Dowsett, has
been living with me over six years, during
which time I had great difficulty in making
her hear, but now she can hear very well.
“ Martha Clark.
“Heath Cottage, Lower Heath, Hampstead, June 16.”
Mr. Colville, the trance medium, has been engaged
to lecture in Boston, Massachusetts, for another year,
and the sum of £250 has been subscribed to pay for
the use of the Berkeley Hall there, on Sundays. His
projected return to London is accordingly abandoned.
July 23, 1880
THE 3PIKITUALIST.
41
STATUYOLENOE AND TEANCE MEDIUMSHIP.
Spiritualists are too ready to believe that
one who passes into a trance, and seems on
awaking to have no recollection of his utter¬
ances in that state, is always under direct
spirit control. Sceptics, on the other hand,
are too ready to believe that the trance is a
sham, and the medium’s claim of unconscious¬
ness untrue.
Spirit control is a well-proven fact in many
cases. There is certainly also direct, deliberate
deception in some deplorable instances. But
the close observer of these phenomena finds a
multitude of cases that he cannot put in either
category. Here Statuvolence comes to our
aid. It insists that, essentially, the trance is
always self-induced; that there can be no
control of the brain of a sensitive by either
mesmeric operator or disembodied spirit,
without consent, expectancy, or faith on the part
of the subject. It has always been conceded
by mesmerists that the subject who believes
or suspects that the mesmeriser is attempting
to control him, will become entranced and act
the same as if under control. Why is not the
same principle applicable to spirit control ?
Sensitives who are Spiritualists are taught
to expect to be influenced by spirits, and to
look upon nervous twitchings and other phy¬
sical disturbances as premonitory symptoms.
May not such persons in that expectant state,
pass into a trance and talk and act as if under
spirit control, deceiving not only others, but
themselves ? This view would explain many
puzzling phenomena, at the same time relieving
the medium from the odium of conscious
deception.
A certain mesmeric subject of mine was
also a trance medium. At times I felt and
believed the control to be genuine. At other
times, while the personations were, to a super¬
ficial observer, fully as complete, I could not
resist the suspicion of delusion ; yet, I believed
my subject to be guiltless of conscious
deception. Afterwards, without any suggestion
of mine, but solely from her own experience
and intuition, she came to believe that she
was self-deceived in the instances referred to,
and acted as if under control because she
thought she was under control.
In the trance or superior condition, mental,
impressions objectivate themselves so in¬
stantaneously that it is easy to confuse cause
and effect, and refer to an external influence
what is really the spontaneous action of mind
itself. The difficulties attending a psycho¬
logical analysis of this superior condition are
j<j expressed as follo ws by a correspondent of the
| | Religio-Philosophical Journal:—
|>| u I have studied Spiritualism from my
If earliest boyhood; I have never been anything
K else but a Spiritualist; I have been influenced
|(| more or less by invisible agencies from my
I?! very infancy ; yet during all these years I
> have never been able .to detect or recognise
Kl any individual control, or know whence or
R| from whom this peculiar influence comes,
j)! ... I am also able by the mere force of will
jsj to go into a kind of semi-trance or psycho-
1 | logical condition. In that state I write and
!<| speak with but little mental effort. I am not
ij able to recognise any individual control. I
| simply feel that my brain is illuminated ; that
i I am in harmonious relation with the world of
I harmony. The thoughts expressed while in
\A this condition are never in advance of my own
ISj education. They are no more trustworthy
k! than my best thoughts, when in a perfect
? normal condition. ... I have long been con-
|)i vinced that all trance speakers who profess to
Kj speak in a perfectly unconscious condition, are
K practising a certain degree of deception.”
Thirty years ago Professor Grimes was one
> of the most noted lecturers on Mesmerism in
America. His theory of the trance, though
I1’j rather elaborately obscure, as a whole ap-
j. proximated, in some particulars, the Statuvolic
| idea. He considered the mental attitude of
| the subject the leading factor, and claimed to
I control his subjects by u psychologising ”
| what he called the u Organ of Credenciveness.”
| Professor Grimes became a sturdy opponent
Kj of Spiritualism, believing that it had “ a purely
m mesmeric or emotional origin,” and he has
j)j persistently attempted to explain it away by
hi arguments drawn from the phenomena of Mes-
j j merism. While his experiments do not prove
j<| as much as he claims for them, they constitute
j?j a valuable contribution to practical psycho-
j)j logy, and point strongly towards the possibility
jsj of self-deception in the matter of spirit control.
\h I quote from his “ Mysteries of Head and Heart
j)j Explainedf page 281:—
“ In the city of Detroit a society was
Kj organised, one object of which was to perform
j experiments in trance and Mesmerism. One
!>! gentleman, Mr. Hawley, a member of the
| j Legislature, after having repeatedly stood up
jsj with others in the usual manner to try to get
j(| entranced, succeeded at one of the meetings of
Pj the society in going into a trance by standing
j up, putting his hands together, and seriously
Kj endeavouring to bring himself into a right
\\\ condition of mind. He had previously de-
42
THE SPIRITUALIST. July 23. 1880
dared that if he did get entranced he hoped
that he should make a political* speech. Ac¬
cordingly, while in the trance, he actually
made a violent democratic harangue. When
he awoke, he declared, upon his honour, that
he did not recollect speaking at all. Several
members of the society who were known to be
susceptible, and 'who had been mesmerised
before, demonstrated by repeated experiments
that they could lay down a programme of
proceedings beforehand, and go into.the trance,
and perform it, neither more nor less, and
then, when awake, have no recollection of
what they had done. They could also awake
at a time previously agreed upon. One young
gentleman, named Davis, who was a good
subject, on one occasion when I was present,
said to the company, ‘ 1 will try to go into the
trance, hop all around the room on one foot,
and sing a comic song, and in ten minutes
awake, and not recollect anything that I have
done.’ To the great amusement of his friends
he carried out the programme, and when he
awoke he turned and asked, (Did I really do
it all ? He then solemnly declared that he
had no recollection of it. He then tried the
experiment again, with a determination ex¬
pressed beforehand that he would recollect it;
and he did so.” F. P. T.
Towanda, Pennsylvania, United States of America, July
2nd,1880.
SPIRITS AND WATER LILIES.
BY CATHERINE WOODFORDE.
On Saturday afternoon, the 17th inst., while
sitting at a seance with a lady visitor and Mr.
JT. C. Husk, we had three water lilies brought
by the spirits. The doors and window were
securely closed, and curtains drawn, and I can
certify there were no flowers of the kind in the
house, nor have there been previously this
year. The lilies thus brought through the
closed doors were evidently fresh from their
watery bed, without a single blemish or bruise
upon their immaculately pure white petals,
which were still covered with tiny water drops
when we lighted the candles. The table be¬
neath our- fingers was wetted by the contact of
the flowers, and their stems, which were fully
eight or nine inches in length, and the petals
firm as if made of wax : a proof of the perfect
manner in which this manifestation was accom¬
plished, for everyone knows how extremely
delicate are water lilies, and how soon they
begin to droop and fade.
We have had flowers brought through Mr.
Husk’s mediumship before, but not in such
absolute perfection and freshness as on this
)| occasion. As John King says he is u a slave
to conditions,” the conditions for such a mani¬
festation were doubtless especially favourable.
4, Eeppel Street, London, July 18th, 1880.
NEW EXPERIMENTS.
Si BY R. FRIESE, PH.D.
The extraordinary effect which breathing
?! against the forehead has in cases of nervous
;| headache, is well known to those who are
S! versed in mesmeric treatment. Heither the
laying on of hands nor passes seemed to mo of
such wonderful power as this simple remedy,
>| in relieving a poor sufferer from one of the
S| worst kind of attacks, and my personal ex-
v perience in this line was quite sufficient to
<j induce me to try some physical experiments
| with a view to prove ad oculos the efficacy of a
)\ fluid, the existence of which science denies
l\ and the spirits aver. A few months ago, I
)| gave an account in The Spiritualist, of a very
>| extraordinary power of attraction, which I dis-
covered in the hands of my Breslau medium.
<j I made use of a very simple pendulum, con-
?| sistingof a small wooden ball of the diameter of
>i 7 centim. suspended by a horsehair of one meter.
>1 When in good health, the medium was capable
of drawing this pendulum to about 35, and
?i even 40 degrees, out of its perpendicular posi-
>| tion by approaching her hands to within 10
)j or 12 centim. A modification of this ap-
>] paratus, consisting of two wooden balls of
/j equal size, joined by a tiny stick, proved much
>! more adapted to trace small amounts of this
,1 power, which evinced the following properties.
If the balls had not been previously touched,
) and one of the medium’s hands approached one
>1 of them, the fluid had a weak repulsive power:
}! when touched, or rather grasped by both hands
?! for one minute, it had a strong attractive
> power. This result I turned to account in
trying the effect of breathing. The centres of
a the two balls lying in one horizontal plane,
?| would describe a circle if the whole system
>| were turned in this plane round the point of
s equilibrium. I first asked the medium to
approach the one ball with stretched-out
?! fingers, holding her hand horizontally. A
>| slight repulsion ensued at a distance of 2
)\ centim. Then I breathed gently in the direc-
?! tion of the connecting rod, taking great care
?! not to impart any motion to the balls. When
vj now the medium approached her fingers to
u within 20 centim., a sudden and violent attrac-
?j tion took place, which surprised us so much,
>j that the lady was frightened. She then put
j! her one hand above this ball and it rose per-
]\ pendicularly into the air, following her hand
July 23, 1880 THE SPIE
so as to pull the horsehair quite out of its Kj
perpendicular position. The spirit-guide, jvj
“Samuel,” said, that to him both balls were j>j
radiant with a most brilliant rose-colour, jsj
This experiment affords a very instructive K|
insight into the nature of animal magnetism; m
neither electricity nor the common magnetism j;|
has anything to do with these results, as I at K]
once ascertained by means of an electrometer kj
and a compass, nor have they to do with |)|
psychic force in any way.
Kahlberg, bei Elbing, July 15th, 1880.
HEATING MEDIUMSHIP.
On Thursday afternoon, last week, Mrs. !$[
Olive of 121, Blenheim Crescent, Netting K|
Hill, London, gave one of her usual seances Kj
for the healing of the sick. About twelve
persons were present. Mrs. Olive mesmerised bj
them while she was in the trance state; much jsj
sympathy and kindly feeling manifestly ex- jd
isted between herself and her patients. As it
was the first of Mrs. Olive’s healing stances K!
we have attended, inquiries were made of j>|
some of the patients whether they had ex- jd
perienced practical benefit to health, and they j)j
stated that they had. We should be glad to >!
print any written certificates they may send Rj
in, as to palpable benefit received in severe Kj
cases.
 <, 
ALLAN KARDEO.
BY THE REV. W. R. TOMLINSON, M.A., (CANTAB.)
My attention has been called to a paragraph !>!
by Mr. Campbell in The Spiritualist, as long js
ago as the 11th of June; where he says, <
“ France received the messages of her own j?
angels cum grano salis, in the shape of blessed j;j
medals of the immaculate conception from the j>j
hands of the Apostle Kardec.” I am sorry to Rj
see this, because, coming from so earnest a jd
man as Mr. Campbell, it is likely to be taken bj
without a grain of salt, when in fact the s
assertion seems to have been made from very jd
insufficient authority indeed. It is most Id
doubtful whether “the Apostle Kardec,” jSj
though a Frenchman, ever distributed a j)j
medal of a virgin of immaculate conception, or id
otherwise, in his life.
Allan Kardec was educated at a Pestaloz- >
zian Institute in Switzerland. When still a R
mere lad he carefully studied the New Testa- Kj
ment for himself, and thus arrived at a belief j?j
the reverse of that taught by those who dis- j>j
tribute such medals as above described. His jsj
views were Unitarian, and he never subjected jd
himself either to the dogmas of priests or |>j
pastors during life. And after his death, his j>j
T UAL I ST. 43
remains, in accordance with directions in his
will, received “ civil burial,” that is to say,
they were interred by his friends without the
ministrations of any pastor of any denomina¬
tion.
SPIRITUALISM IN HAMBURG.
BY A. HENRY, MEMBER OF THE HAMBURG SOCIETY FOR
PSYCHIC STUDIES.
Recently, a few persons met at a friend’s
house in Hamburg and were seated around an
oval table on which a tall petroleum lamp was
burning. Our host called attention to a pas¬
sage in Dr. Yogel’s book* u Aus der neuen Hex-
enkuche^ where a spirit’s utterance, “ The
soul never dies” is quoted. We discussed the
propriety of the word “ dies ” and incidentally
repeated the sentence “ the soul never dies,”
when Mr. Herne, with closed eyes and evidently
in a trance, said ; “ But the soul does die. Yes,
the soul does die. It dies many a time. But
what is \ dying ’? Ho you not see ? It is
nothing but a change of color. Hying is
changing one’s color.”
Here there was interruption; a servant
entered the room bringing tea for some friends
who had arrived late. When the disturbance
was over, we sat again, talking about sundry
things, when the table began to turn and jerk
rather powerfully. We became afraid and
removed the lamp, when immediately the spirit
“ Cissey ” began again saying, (through Mr.
Herne, of course,) “ Oh do not be afraid, the
spirits will not break the lamp or anything.
They are careful and know how to manage.
But you must not change conditions. You
removed the lamp. Ho you not see that that
is changing conditions ? After the spirits
commence their work you must not change
conditions, or we shall lose our power of
control and be much more likely to do mischief
than if left undisturbed as we commenced.”
We replaced the lamp and Cissey went on
talking of various things until she was reminded
of having commenced speaking of “ dying,” and
asked if she would continue her address.
“ Yes, I will,” she said. “ The soul does
die. It dies very often. I have been dying
many times since I passed away. I [am an
Indian girl, and since I left my body I have
had many “dyings” i*e. many changes, em¬
blematically speaking, of color. Every spirit
has a color, you know, and that color corresponds
to his or her state of knowledge. Knowledge
is colour. As we progress in knowledge, we
change color, i.e. we keep dying. The soul is
continually progressing in knowledge, and
44
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 23, 1880
every step in advance in knowledge is ac¬
companied by a change of color, is a new dye,
or it is dying again. Those people who cling
to the earth are of the earth, earthy, when they
enter the spirit-world, and they have then a
dull brown color as the earth itself has. The
brown color signifies u filth.” The earth is
filth, you are filthy, and everything about you
is filthy.”
Here Mrs. Herne interposed. She could not
stand being called filthy, and she mentioned
her cold bath, which she said she had every
morning. But Cissey insisted upon her words
being entirely borne out by the facts of the
case.
Cissey continued:-—“Now, you see, if you
cling to the things of this world, your soul
having no other knowledge but such as is of
the filth, has also the color of filth when it
leaves the body. But those who live a good
life, aspiring to spiritual knowledge and to a
life of goodnes, love, and sympathy, constantly
trying to become more godly, such are not
brown on leaving the body but of a brighter
color. And as they rise in the spheres, i.e. as
they advance from lower or more earthly to
higher or more heavenly spheres of knowledge,
they assume a brighter hue; they die with
every advance of knowledge, until they finally
reach the celestial spheres, the inhabitants of
which are of a brightness inconceivable to
those in lower regions.
•f But, say the orthodox people—I mean
your clergy—when we die, we go either
straight to heaven or straight to hell, and there
is not an intermediate state of the soul. And
we, they go on to say, we, the servants of the
Living God, who have lived a holy, godly life,
according to the Word of God, we shall go
straight to heaven. But they do not know the
great law of sympathy ruling the spheres, and
after they have left the body, and some good
spirit beaming with brightness approaches
them, they not knowing what it means and
looking upon the appearance as an emanation
from their imaginary devil, are repelled by
virtue of their own inward reluctance; they
retire and enshroud therpselves in their own
sphere of doubt. Thus they are attracted to
their like and, from their own wilful inclination,
are compelled to take up their abode in the
sphere of doubt, where there is gloom and
sufitering much worse than in any hell they
were ever able to imagine. By this same law
of sympathy every man dying is attracted to
his or her natural and congenial sphere, the
man of knowledge to the sphere of knowledge,
M the man of earthly science to that same sphere
)j of science, the man of lust to the sphere of
| sensuality, but the man of love and sympathy
(j to the sphere of love and sympathy. From
)| all these spheres, however, there is a road
)| leading upwards to higher and more godly
si states, according to the general law of progress
<| and each step onward leading into a higher sphere
>j. is expressed by a change of colour, by another
S| dying, by our bodies assuming another degree
| of brightness.
“We are always clothed in bodies, you know.
h There is a body spiritual as there is a body
>| material, but our spiritual bodies differ in their
s| degrees of brightness according to the sphere
a we inhabit. Every time we rise to a higher
| sphere we put off our body and assume a purer,
I! a brighter body, until we become more like
s| unto God in the celestial spheres. But this
|| progress depends upon our own desire for
>| gaining knowledge. As we conceive a higher
S| sphere to be purer and more desirable than
sj our own, we strive to grow purer in order to
a rise into that purer sphere. Do you understand
>i me, friends ?
“ I know, some of you will say : ‘ Why are
sj they all English spirits who talk to us ? Why
do they not speak German ? Why does not one
;j German spirit come to talk to us ?’ I will tell
Sj you why. There is no language with us in
sj the spheres. We know one another’s thoughts
? j and have no need of words to make ourselves
;j understood. We talk neither English nor
sj German. But when we come down to cem-
s j municate with you, we must express ourselves
sj so as to become intelligible to you. I am an
>! Indian girl, you know, and have had to learn
sj English. I cannot learn German so quickly,
sj But I love to come to you, to such a good
?l sympathetic circle of friends as you are to-
Sj night aronnd our good friends, the mediums,
sj poor frail creatures, full of human errors and
| defects and doing many a thing they had better
| not do.
“ Why do you not come to guide us and
Sj keep us out of error?” here interposed Mrs.
sj Herne.
“We do, we give our advice, but we can do
>j no more, we cannot think and act for you.”
“ Why not ? You know, we should willingly
sj follow your guidance,” said Mrs. Herne.
“Perhaps you would,” replied Cissey,
Sj %t but then we should be doing what it is God’s
sj will you should do. You must learn to do
s| your duty by yourselves. Every human being
?j is responsible for himself or herself alone. If
Sj you will be purified, your purification must be
THE SPIRITUALIST.
45
July 23, 1880
your own work. You are here on earth to b
prepare for the life hereafter, and if we were K
to do all the thinking and acting for you, you K
would not he responsible and would never k
become fit to rise in the world to come, j?
Although we should be desirous of helping |>
you, we cannot do more than advise you, you Is
see. We should also like to help the orthodox k
priest, but how can we ? If he will not accept !)
our teaching but will insist upon his own h
erroneous idea of heaven and hell, how can we ]<
help him ? And as he must go to that hell he k
prepares for himself by his own erroneous ideas 6
of the spiritual world, so you must also go to |s
that sphere for which you prepare through K
your own life in the flesh. Every progressive k
step we take is the result of our own desires |)
and knowledge. We progress according to our I)
inward conceptions of the nature of our Father, K
the source of all love, knowledge and goodness, k
and according to our yearnings we approach |>
nearer to him. It is in our world as it is in jS
yours. If you did not think the water to be [<
purer than you are, you would not plunge into |<
it. It is your desire to be immersed in a jj
medium of greater purity which makes you j<
dive into it. Thus it is with the spirit; after k
having fully realised within himself the greater j<
purity of the sphere above him, he is prepared j<
to rise into it and live and have his being: i>
therein. Like attracts like, and the nature of K
the things we approach affects our own nature, j?
But you say, if by approaching such as are |;
impure, spirits become tainted with impurity, js
how is it that purer spirits descend from the |(
spheres and communicate with those who are u
on the earth and full of impurity ?
Well, I will tell you. My communion with js
you does not originate within my own self, you k
see ; my coming to you is not being prompted j?
by any impure propensity which might blend j>
with your impurity. But we are all minister- Is
ing spirits doing our Father’s will. We are K
all fed by our Heavenly Father, the bountiful k
source of life and knowledge, and our food is
knowledge. Whatsoever I tell you and teach K
you, I am told and taught myself and receive k
from those above me, from God’s angels. But I)
they give it to me to be communicated to you, js
and as it passes through me, I myself gain that js
same knowledge, and thus, while I am teach- j(
ing you and helping you, I am myself taught k
and advanced a step upon the ladder of pro- jS
gress. Your impurity does not affect me, jsj.
because the purifying influence from above is kj
more powerful.
“ Then again some of you will say ; A spirit! jjj
Oh, a spirit J How can a spirit do such paltry
tricks as moving a table, lifting a chair, and
such like pranks ? But if you see such things
done, if you see a chair moving without any
visible agency, does not that compel you to
acknowledge the existence of an ueseen power ?
That is why certain spirits come to you and
produce physical manifestations. I cannot
easily come and talk to you, as I do to-night,
in such promiscuous circles as you have had of
late. I am full of love. I love you all, and
I can only come where there is love around me
as there is now in this harmonious company.
Yes, my dear friends, I love you, and I rejoice
to come among you in a circle like this, full of
love and sympathy, to talk to you of the
spiritual knowledge I have gained. True, you
have knowledge of your own. There are
among you learned and wise men. But what
is your earthly knowledge compared with our
spiritual knowledge ? Why, earthly knowledge
availeth you nothing when you enter the spirit-
world. Our knowledge is different in kind
from your knowledge. I cannot explain that
to you. I cannot demonstrate it, because there
is nothing here I could compare to our
spiritual things. Progress with us does not
depend upon earthly material knowledge, but
only upon doing good. The one grand
principle which ought to be your guide to and
preparation for spiritual life is this: Do unto
others as you would be done unto. Everything
yon do will cling to you for ever. You are
like a living tree; if a leaf is withered, that
leaf will continue withered though the tree
may produce new leaves, fresh and green all
around the withered leaf. A bad deed is such
a withered leaf sticking to you. You may live
on and do good and produce green leaves above
and around the withered leaf your good deeds
and thoughts may encircle, and envelope, and
hide the withered leaf, but there it is, it will
not fall otf. Do whatsoever you will, you
cannot remove it. Hide it from the superficial
observer by ever so thick a covering of green,
you will never get rid of it. And oh ! what
pangs of conscience such a withered leaf will
call forth!
“ I am very happy. I have no such
withered leaves upon me. It is about fifty
years since I passed away, and I was a mere
child when I left earthly life, having never had
a chance of doing an evil deed and being as yet
a young sapling, green all over from top to
bottom. That is why I progressed quickly,
and rapidly rose to higher spheres. I am happy
to come among you and talk to you to-night,
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Jttly 23, 1880
46
and I shall rejoice to come to you again. I am
glad the mediums will stop with you a little
longer. While the earthly-minded keep aloof,
and while you meet in the same spirit of love
and sympathy as to-night, I will come to you
again. I loye you all. Good night! Good night!
God bless you ! ”
Scarcely had the spirit ceased speaking when
I was asked to write down the address. I said,
it would be difficult to remember. It lasted a
good half-hour, and remarkable was the change
observed in Mr. Herne’s features when, after a
few slight convulsions and tremblings of arms
and hands, he recovered consciousness and
opened his eyes.
It was noteworthy that we had not met that
evening for any manifestations at all. It was
a social gathering of friends in no way prepared
for a seande. So much the greater was our
surprise and delight to be favored with such a
spiritual communication
Hamburg, Germany.
 + 
A CASE OF APPARENT INJUSTICE.
The Times of last Tuesday contains the fol¬
lowing paragraph, under the appropriate title
of u Alleged Fortune-Telling —
“At the Leicester Borough Police-court,
yesterday, an extraordinary case of fortune¬
telling came on for hearing. A woman named
Eliza Kenney was charge with unlawfully pre¬
tending to tell fortunes. Mr. J. B. Fowler
defended. It appeared from the evidence of
two young women, named Brown andStreetham,
that they visited the house of the defendant in
Leicester, and asked her whether she would
tell them their fortunes. She told them to call
again, and they did so, when the defendant
said, 5.1 suppose you want to know about your
future husbands.’ After some preliminaries,
she pretended to fall into a mesmeric sleep. A
number of questions were then asked about a
soldier in India, whom the defendant char¬
acterised as deceitful. Other questions, chiefly
relating to the probabilities of the marriage of
one of the young women, were put to the
defendant, and were answered by her. After
the fortunes of both witnesses had been told,
the defendant made a charge of 3s. 6d. each,
which was paid. It, however, turned out that
the questions which were put to the defendant
were of purely imaginary things, and that the
girls had been instructed to visit Kenney by
the police. For the defence, Mr. Fowler stated
that the woman had been servant to two doctors,
who had found that she was possessed of second-
sight. He submitted that the prosecution had
\\ failed, because the defendant never pretended
?j to tell fortunes, but only to answer questions
)|- while in a trance, and that to support the
s| charge it was necessary to prove that she had
|| defrauded or deluded the witnesses, which
?j clearly she had not done. The Bench fined
;{ the woman 40s. and costs, with the alternative
Sj of one month’s imprisonment.”
How it is a fact, as clearly established as
11 the presence of the sun at noon-day, that
11 individuals do commonly enough pass into
sj trances, and hold rational conversations not
| known to them in their normal consciousness,
?| or remembered only as a vague dream. It is
)j also true that in that state, they commonly
I! enough give precise details, with accurate
|i proper names and dates, relating to the past
i career of persons present whom they had never
>| previously heard of in their lives. The late
sj J. W. Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court,
| Hew York, testified in a pamphlet how his
11 daughter while in such a trance condition,
would hold a sustained conversation in Greek
11 with natives of Greece. In her normal state
(j she did not understand the language. Further-
>| more, the question has been raised whether
Sj persons who in the presence of such sensitives,
<j tell untruths either because of natural perver-
?! sity, or as common informers, or because paid
n to say what is not true by Her Majesty’s
>j Government (to the improvement by example
; of the morals of the people), bring lying spirits
|j about the medium, so that said common in-
>| formers, and said government, are all swimming
Sj in the same boat.
In this particular case the solicitor stated
jj that two doctors testified that the alleged
> sensitive is a sensitive, in so far that she
Tj possesses the faculty of second-sight, as certified
I j by two doctors, who do not, however, appear to
? j have given their testimony in court, so far as can
>| be ascertained from the report. We should be
Sj glad to print the second-sight facts they have
sj observed. Meanwhile, the scientific problem
? j at the root of the matter has been relegated to
>| policemen, paid women, and police magistrates,
S who, if they be government authorities on
s scientific problems, ought at once to leave
?j Leicester, in order to sit in judgment on the
>| Boyal Society, and to take charge of the Royal
sj Observatory, as well as the Meteorological
( \ Department of the Board of Trade.
This continuous relegation of psychological
m problems to incompetent authorities on scien-
m tific matters, is bringing the law and the
K government into contempt among the vast
j? numbers of people who understand the ques-
47
July 23, 1880
THE SPIRITUALIST.
tions at issue. Assuming the accuracy of The
Times report, the attention of Mr. Gladstone
and the Home Secretary ought to be called to
the matter.
A TRANCE LECTURE.
Last Saturday an inspirational address on the sub¬
ject of Body and Spirit, was delivered by Mrs. Tappan-
Richmond, at St. James’s Hall, Regent Street, London.
In the course of the lecture, Mrs. Richmond said that
men were now slaves to the senses ; materialism and
material worship abounded everywhere, worship itself
also had become a plea for sensation. But a reaction
must follow. Something therefore was rising within
man, claiming a loftier allegiance than worshipping at
the throne of dust. Life could not be predicated upon
matter, and was not evolved from it, yet the belief in
spiritual life and spiritual powers, was often said to be
the outcome of ignorance. Did ignorance cause
Wesley to talk of angelic-presences ? Did ignorance
cause the Augustine monk to light the fires of the
Reformation ? Did ignorance give rise to the Christian
religion, when in the midst of the splendours of
material power, it announced a spiritual instead of a
material Divinity ? Did ignorance inspire the divine
Socrates with the news of immortality, fir induce the
dreams of Pythagoras about eternal life ? Did ignor¬
ance inspire Dante and Milton to speak of angelic
beings ? If so, then every age had been an age of
ignorance, and every inspired word but tradition.
Was it tradition which now produced the voices from
the spirit world by the firesides of her hearers, pro¬
claiming the immortality of man ? The speaker then
proceeded to argue that it was of no use to seek for
spirit through matter, and she devoted a portion of her
address to the subject of personal selfishness.
At the close of the lecture, various questions were
put by listeners to the entranced speaker.
Q. Bo spirits go to other planets as well as to spirit
spheres f
A. That depends upon the degree of their exaltation.
Swendenborg and others have visited other planets,
but earth-bound spirits keep near the earth.
Q. Boes earth contain the worst people to he found on any
earth ?
A. We hope not, although it is undoubtedly one of
the youngest of the undeveloped planets.
Q. Does not the rapidity of progress in the next life
depend upon the condition of the spirit on leaving the body ?
A. The spiritual state of every human being on
leaving earth, determines its position in the next life,
and the rapidity of its subsequent growth. The culti¬
vated and aspiring spirit will rise fastest.
Q. Is there any truth in the doctrime of the reincarnation
of the spirit on the earth ?
A. It is a sublime law of the Universe that the soul
must conquer the earth: in what way, depends upon
its own condition. It is our opinion that some will
have to return many, times, before they can get free
from the earth.
Q. Was the earthly body of Christ capable of endless life,
if it had not met with a violent death ?
A. His organic body was subject to the laws of such
organisms, but it was also subject to spiritual laws,
which might have perpetuated it had it been necessary.
Q. What was the condition of man ivhen he was created ?
A. Look at a baby and you will find a type of man
in every age. We do not believe in the physical
theory of evolution, but think that man was created a
little lower than the angels.
Q. Can you give any evidence of the existence of angels
at all?
A. If the questioner can find no evidence of their
existence by looking within, we cannot give it.
An inspirational poem on u The Birth of the Soul,”
a subject chosen by the audience, was then delivered,
after which the Rev. Sir William Dunbar, Bart.,
proposed a vote of thanks to the speaker, and the pro¬
ceedings closed.
During the evening Mr. Ward presided at the
harmonium. There was a fair audience, and among
the listeners was Professor Barrett, who brought up
the discussion on Spiritualism at the Bristol Association
meeting at Glasgow.
A MON ESPRIT.
I kiss these lips of yours so pure, go cold,
Dear spirit, bending o’er my pillow low,
They thrill me with a love ne’er sung, ne’er told
Nor felt in mortal commune here below.
My darling! your sweet presence through the hours—•
The calm and solemn hours of blissfull night,
Pills all my lone life, as the fragrant flowers
Sweeten through summer days the amber light.
Look with the dreamful rapture of your eyes
Full into mine :—as in the years good by:
Their hue is like the blue of evening skies
When tender purple shadows o’er them lie.
Cast o’er my face the glory of your smile,—
I lived for it alone in days of yore—•
It’s sweetness now seems half divine, the while
As human and as loving as before.
Speak with the old loved music of your voice,
In murmured melodies as long ago :
Sweet sounding as when limpid streams rejoice,
Flowing where tangled beds of lilies grow.
Raise my soul upward—keep me ever pure
That walking in the shadow of your grace,
From evils rendered by your care secure;
So I may gaze unblushing in your face.
While you are ever with me night and day,
As palpable as mortal form to me,
I fear no ill, for you will guide alway
Through all the dangers of life’s seething sea.
Mon ange, we know no separation here,
Nor shall we ever in our final goal:
In this my double life upon this sphere
We have begun our union of the soul.
E. Wilding.
Mr. Eglinton in Munich :—So far as we can make
out, Mr. Eglinton has been very badly treated in
Munich. Ho went as a foreigner who did not know
the language, and asked that at his stances he should
be, as usual, held hand and foot. What more could
he offer ? Under these conditions he gave satisfaction
except in one instance, and if he then disjoined hands
in the way stated, those in charge of him were false to
their trust in not saying so at the time. It was not
honourably open to them to give the alleged details
subsequently, and in his absence, when they were
necessary to bolster up what appears to be a theory.
The same old-fashioned theory has often been mooted
in England against one or two mediums, but on close
observation proved to be false.
48
July 23, 1880
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE ENGLISH TRANSLATION OF PROFESSOR ZOLLNER’S EXPERIMENTS.
LIST OF ENGRAVINGS.
FRONTISPIECE :—The room at Leipsio in "which, most of the
Experiments were conducted.
PLATE I:—Experiments with an Endless String1-
PLATE II:—Leather Bands Interlinked and Knotted under
Professor Zollner’s Hands.
PLATE III :—Experiments with an Endless Bladder-band
and Wooden Rings.
PLATE IY :—Result of the Experiment.
PLATE V:—Result of the Experiment on an Enlarged Scale.
PLATE VI:—Experiments with Coins in a Secured Box.
PLATE VII:—The Representation of Test Circumstances,
under which Slate-writing was obtained.
PLATE VIII:—Slate-writing Extraordinary.
PLATE IX :—Slate-writing in Five Different Languages.
PLATE X : —Details of the Experiment with an Endless band
and Wooden Rings.
PREFACES.
TRANSLATOR’S PREFACE :—Professor ZoUner and his
Works—The Value of Testimony considered—Sources of Fallacy
—How can Medial Phenomena be Explained ?—The Value of
Scientific Authority—Mr. A. R. Wallace’s answer to Hume’s
Essay on Miracles—Spiritualism an Aggregation of Proven Facts.
—The Attack upon Henry Slade—Spirit Messages—Slade’s
Career after leaving England—Professor Zollner’s Polemic--
Items relating to the English Translation.
PROFESSOR ZOLLNER’S PREFACE (Dedication of the
Work to Mr. William Crookes) :—Workers in a New Field of
Research—Thoroughness of the Labours of Mr. Crookes—The
Moral Necessity of the Strife about Spiritualism—The Immor¬
tality of the Best Works of Human Genius.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—Gauss’s and Kant’s Theory of Space—The
practical application of the Theory in Experiments with Henry
Slade—True Knots produced upon a Cord while its ends were in
view and sealed together—The principles involved in the tying
of knots in Space of One, Two, Three and Four Dimensions—
Berkeley’s Theory of Vision—The Conception of Space derived
from Experience—Kant on Spiritual Existence.
CHAPTER II:—Henry Slade’s first visit to Leipsic—Professor
Fechner’s observations of the movements of a Magnetic Needle
in proximity to Madame Ruf, a Mesmeric Sensitive—Professor
Erdmann’s observations of the Phenomenon—The Experiment
repeated with Henry Slade—The Observations of Professors
Biaune, Fechner, Weber and Scheibner—A Spirit Apology—
Destruction of a large Screen by Spirits—Experiments with a
Compass—Apparition of a Living Hand—Experiments with a
Bell and lighted Candles—Slade and the Grand Duke Constantine
—Testimony of the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof—A Test Experi¬
ment in Slate-writing—Impartation of Permanent Magnetism to
an Iron Needle by Medial Power.
CHAPTER III:—Permanent Impressions obtained of Tem¬
porarily Materialised Hands and Feet—A proposed Chemical
Experiment—Slade’s Abnormal Vision—Physical Impressions in
a Closed Space—Enclosed Space of Three Dimensions, open to
Four-dimensional Beings—The Muscular Power of a Spirit Hand
—A Test with Flour—Experiments with a Polariscope—Flight
of Objects through the Air—A Clue to Research
CHAPTER IV:—Conditions of Investigation—The Know¬
ledge of our Ignorance—Unscientific Men of Science—Herr
Virchow’s Precept and Practice—“ The Martyrology of Mediums,”
a book of the Future—Slade’s reply to Professor Barrett—A
Medium’s enunciation of the First Rules of Experimentation in
Natural Science.
CHAPTER V:—Production of Knots in an Endless String-
Further Experiments—Experiments of the same Nature in Lon¬
don—A Dining Table Floating in the Air in Daylight—Manifes¬
tations in the House of a Physician—A Medium in Seclusion—
The Imposition of d priori Conditions—The Apparition of a Pale
Hand for Three Minutes—The Knotting together of Leather
Bands beneath the Hands of the Author—Professor Weber’s
Experiences with a Spirit Hand—Disappearance and Reappear¬
ance of Ponderable Objects—A Book Vanishes and Reappears—
A Table Vanishes ; it Reappears in Mid-air.
CHAPTER VI:—Theoretical Considerations—The Axiom of
“ The Conservation of Energy ” valid in Four-dimensional Space
—Projected Experiments to prove the Fourth Dimension—The
Unexpected in Nature and Life—Scientific Passivity—Schopen¬
hauer’s “ Transcendent Fate ”—Goethe on the Veil of Nature.
CHAPTER VII:—Various Instances of the so-called Passage
of Matter through Matter—An Unexpected Phenomenon—The
Heat sometimes produced by the Operation—The Burning
Power of Psychic Force—That Evidence the best which can be
appreciated without the Testimony of Experts—Failures at seances
an Argument against Trickery—A na'ive Misconception—The
Moral Responsibility of Mediums—The nature of the Phenomena
inconsistent with Trickery—The Limits of Physical Human
Strength—A Force of Tension of 198 cwts. exercised by Psychic
Power—A Force equal to that of two Horses exercised in Slade's
presence—Catalytic Forces—Galileo on the Perverseness of the
Philosophers at Padua.
CHAPTER VIII : —The Phenomena suitable for Scientific
Research—Their Reproduction at different Times and Places—
Dr. Friese’s and Professor Wagner's Experiments in Confir¬
mation of the Author's—Experiments with Private Mediums—
Manifestations observed by Professor Nicolaus Wagner at St.
Petersburg—Blind Faith and Blind Scepticism—Professor Wagner
on the Fanaticism of Blind Sceptics—Investigation of Spiritual
Manifestations in a Private Family—Spiritualism a Foe to
Atheism—Form Materialisations through a Private Medium—
Appearance of the Spirit of Olga—Effect of strong Manifestations
upon a Medium—Repetition of one of Professor Zollner'a Experi¬
ments by Professor Wagner—Psyohography—Spirit Identity—
Impression made by the Materialised Hand of a Deceased
Person—The Value of the Facts.
CHAPTER IX:—Theoretical—The Fourth Dimension of
Space—A Miracle to Two-Dimensional Beings—The Experiments
of Professor Hare—A Ball of Platinum introduced into a Her¬
metically Sealed Glass Tube by Spirits—An Experiment with
Coins—Several Examples of the Passage of Solid Matter through
Solid Matter—Clairvoyance—The Fourth Dimensional Theory
explains Clairvoyance—The part taken by Slade's Soul in a
Manifestation—The Spatial Widening of the Three Dimensional
Circle of Sight to Clairvoyants—Why Bodies gradually become
Transparent to Clairvoyants—Illustration in the case of Andrew
Jackson Davis—The Criterion of Objectivity—The Influence of
one Will upon another—Hansen's Experiments—The Pliilosophy
of Berkeley applied to Spiritual Phenomena.
CHAPTER X:—An Experiment for Sceptics—A Wager—
Slade’s Scruples—A Rebuke by the Spirits—An Unexpected
Result—Captious Objections—The Experiment of Professor
Waoh—Example of the Apparent Penetrability of Matter.
CHAPTER XI:—The Facility with which Material Bodies
apparently pass through each other in Slade’s presence—Writing
through a Table—A Test in Slate-writing conclusively disprov¬
ing Slade’s agency—A Description of the Trance State.
CHAPTER XII:—A Fault” in the Cable—Jets of Water—
Remarkable Heating Effects through Slade’s Mediumship—
Smoke—Sulphurous Vapours—“Fire Everywhere”—A Bluish-
white Light—Abnormal Shadows—A Philosophical Explanation
—A Materialised Spirit Hand—A Luminous Form.
CHAPTERXIII:—Phenomena Witnessed by other Observers
than the Author—Manifestations in Bohemia—The Narrative of
Herr Heinrich Gossmann—Spirit Identity—Heavy Stones brought
into the Seance Room—Extraordinary Manifestations—Spirit
Writing in Five Languages.
APPENDICES.
APPENDIX A:—The Value of Testimony in Matters Extra¬
ordinary—The Proportional Strength of Evidence—The Con¬
tradiction of Experience by Alleged Facts—Mr. Starkie’s Treatise
on the LojW of Evidence—Hume’s Essay on Miracles—The In¬
fluence of Preconception—Hume’s Principle Mathematically
Refuted by Mr. Babbage—The “ Uniformity ” of Nature—The
Lord Lindsay’s Experiences—Dr. Lockhart Robertson’s Experi¬
ments—The Cumulative Force of Testimony—The Universal
Belief of Mankind—Obstruction of Truth by Scientific Men—
The Testing of Evidence.
APPENDIX B:—Evidence of Samuel Bellachini, Court Con¬
juror at Berlin.
APPENDIX C:—Admissions by John Nevil Maskelyno and
other Professional Conjurors—Houdin—Jacobs.
APPENDIX D:—Plate X--Experiment with Sealed Cords
and Endless Bands.
Price 12s. fid.: Post Free. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum Street, London.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 23, I860.
iii
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. 'White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
■women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punuhmemtqf sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers. No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pricisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
T^ALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
t_ in Spiritualism, by Chiistian Beimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Avo Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlgle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Safwrday Secieio.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street. London, W.C.,
Researches in the pheno¬
mena OF SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.K.S. The best work ever published^ to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st, W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for l&d; or six copies post free for 6d.
rpHE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
JL A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse,
By Ella. Diets.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small Svo., price 3s. fid. Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, S3, Museum-street, London, W.C.
British national associa¬
tion OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c,, apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 3 p.m. to 9.30, dally. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, ” 8. 0., care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
rpHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
JL oldest j ournal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9| Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. TAa Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit messagd department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance.
15s per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.O
Price 3s. fid. Imperial Svo. Cloth, red edges, Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.” „
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of ‘‘M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Kichmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. —
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ A'damanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg,
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To Yon who Loved Me. By Florence Many at
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelina
Von Vny (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXT.—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—” Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of ** M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesf alien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne: translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. II. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. . By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XTiII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Bianch Office, 33
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 8s. fid. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy Svo.,
407 pp.
STUDIEN TIBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Auki.ma von Vat (Countkss
Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. fid., post free
(Illustrated with oiagrams).
GEIST, KRAFT, STOEF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, S3,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. fid.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INKER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glen are—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live”—XX
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allen Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every Month. Price 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post Office orders payable at
Leymarie.
Price 5s. Crown Svo. Cloth. Red Edges.
PSYCHIC FACTS.
The Best Book to place in Public Libraries and in th e
hands of Disbelievers in Spiritualism.
CONTENTS.
Elementary Information for Inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. By the Editor.
Elementary Psychical Phenomena Experimentally
Tested. ByRobertHare,M.D., Professor of Chemistry
at the University of Pennsylvania.
Experiments in Psychical Phenomena. By William
Crookes, F.R.S.
Phenomena I have seen. By Cromwell Fleetwood
Varley, F.R.S., C.E.
Report on Spiritualism. By a Committee of the Dia.
lectical Society of London.
Psychography. By Edward W. Cox, Serjeant-at-Law.
Extraordinary Psychical Phenomena^ in Germany.
By Frederick Zollner, Professor of Physical Astronomy
at the University of Leipsic,
Captain R. F. Burton’s Experiences.
Experiences at a Seance. By Alfred Russell Wal¬
lace.
Reichenbach’s Magnetic Flames and other Pheno.
mena. By The Lord Linsay.
Powerful Physical Manifestations. By Dr. A. But.
lerof. Professor of Chemistry in the University of St.
Petersburg.
Testimony of “The Times” Newspaper.
Testimony of “The Daily Telegraph.”
Slate-Writing Experiments. By Epes Sargent.
Spiritualism and Insanity. By Eugene Crowell,
M.D.
Linguistic Phenomena. By J. W. Edmonds, Judge
of the Supreme Court, New York.
A Severe Surgical Operation under Mesmeric Influ.
ence. By Colonel Sir William Topham.
Signor Damiani’s Challenge.
Manifestations witnessed by the Emperor of Ger.
many.
Manifestations witnessed by the Emperor of Russia.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
 33, Museum-street, London.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Nine pence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circle
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them ; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to '* drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit virdes at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated tc
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con¬
sequently irreligious age.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 23, 1880,
; Accidental Indigestion
■ ^ BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
USE
ENO S FRUITSALT
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the 'World
ought to contain a bottle of
t Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
KY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical anc
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Q-raphic, Court Journal and some twenty or tkirt}
other standard j ournals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health¬
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S ERUIT SALT.—Prom the
Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
CTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
loo rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT, You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de I*' i'aix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. Me is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
m the house.”—M. Beral.
END’S FRUIT SALT.— “After suf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ SUCCESS IN LIFE.’’—Anewin-
Kj vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and tee the capsule is
marked "ENO’S FEUIT SALT.” Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcham, London, S.E.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song o;
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Eat Man
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaea-
bac was Ihptographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
hao a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustaplu.
Ben Buckram, Chief of the- College of Howling Der
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay ol
the Market Gardener.—11.. if East falls the Eventide.”
12 Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “Poor
Old Joe! ”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30. The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in areview nearly a column long, says.—“Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to he rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The hook contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Q-aultier Ballads or The Biglow Bapers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, skewing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay. of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free 7gd.; cloth.
Pbize Essays.
npHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
X SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr,
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association or
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33)
Museum-street, London, W.C.
MIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. .(Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
Birkbeck bank.—
Southampton Buildings, Chancery Lane.
Current Accounts opened according to the usual
practice of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the
minimum monthly balances when not drawn below
£25. No Commission charged for keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
per cent. Interest, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
31st March, 1880.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROET, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
T UNACY LAW REFORM
JU ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 p.m. Saturdays 1 to 2.
Louisa Lowe and P. T. Blackwell, Esq., Barrister-at-
Law, Hon. Secs.
rTHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
X OR THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. Areview of it in The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d,
post free 6gd. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33. Museum-street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authob. and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C. /
Or of Messrs. Colby anb Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, infavonr not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We
will only say that his descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
CONTENTS.
Healing by Laying on of Hands  37
Cure of Goitre     39
A Life-Long Ailment Cured    40
Cure of Deafness •     40
Statuvolence and Trance Mediumship. By E. P. T. 41
Spirits and Water Lilies. By Catherine Woodforde 42
New Experiments. By R. Friese, Ph., D  42
Healing Mediumship  43
Allan Kardec.- By the Rev. W. R. Tomlinson  43
Spiritualism in Hamburg. By A. Henry   43
A Case of Apparent Injustice  45
A Trance Lecture    47
Poetry:—A Mon.Esprit      47
Paragraph:—Mr. Eglinton at Munich    47
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
