Registkkkd as a Newspaper.
No. 396.—(Yol. XYI.—No. 13.) LONDON: FRIDAY, MARCH 26, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Jttst Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STEEET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEYOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. BLAVATSKY.
PUB LIS II ED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to 11 The Proprietors of i The Theosophist' ” at the above address.
Just. Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
“Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with having written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W-
H
THE SPIRITUALIST,
March 26, 1880.
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Bed Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The BEY. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM ELETCHER,
22, OORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
"Will Lecture at Stemway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). Erom the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). Erom the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). Erom the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbttbneb and Co., London.
MR. E. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Eive Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
D. YOUNGER,
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute eases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored simply by
the influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient.
Any form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. 'Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (comer of Moscow-road and
Hereford-road), Bays water, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
"VTDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
1VA Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies _ and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Days
and hours of business—Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
4, Keppell-street, Russell-square, W.C.
Crown 8vo., pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRIT CAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its hearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . .His eclecticism has led him to recognize philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Tall Mall
Gazette,
London : Teubnee and Co., Ludgate Hill.
32 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 3d.
EATIONALE OF SPIKITUALISM.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane.
Just Published.
TEE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly, scientific methods,
giving well-proved facta first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
ost free; Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O.
pHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earls-court, S.W.
MIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free.
T UNACY LAW REFORM
J J ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 pm. Saturdays 1 to 2
THIRTY-SECOND
[A NNIYERSARY OF MODERN
XA. SPIRITUALISM will be celebrated at Stein¬
way Hall, Lower Seymour Street, Portman Square,
W. on Sunday April 4th, service at 11 a.m. and 7 p.m.
Among the speakers who will be present are:—
Rev. Stainton Moses, Mr. Thomas Shorter, Mr. E.
H. Greene, Miss S. E. Oay, and Mrs. Fletcher. Mr.
O. William Fletcher in the chair. Admission Free.
allegorical sketches,
XJL The Christmas No. of
“ THE BETTER LIFE.”
Price Is. 6d.
Victoria Steam Press, 117, Praed Street, London, W.,
pHINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
\J WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Earthenware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system
J. M. DALE,
50, Crawford-street, Bryanston-square, London.
t
% of I’qogr^os of anb Jliffitp of ^piijiluaKsm,
No. 396.—VOLUME SIXTEEN; NUMBER THIRTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 2 6 th, 18 8 0.
“THE SPIRITUALIST’’ Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United ;S
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union. IS
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON, R
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist :—
His Imperial Highness Ni¬
cholas of Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
of Caithness
The Baroness Yon Vay, Coun¬
tess Wurmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof,
St. Petersburg
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexander Calder, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Captain John Jakes
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. HATx
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jenoken, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
J. T. Marklky, Esq. .
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Marryat
Madame Isabel de Steiger
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Yon Dirckinck-Holm-
feld (Holstein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M. Adelberth de Bourbon
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. Varley, Esq.,0.E., F.R.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Friese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hbnsleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. George Wyld
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.,
M.D., Melbourne
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the I /
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly I?
on sale at S3, Museum-street, London; 6, Rue Neuve K
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse, l(
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor j \
Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms, I)
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; |)
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex- ;)
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne; I)
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51. East Twelfth-street, New K
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, ;(
U.S. ; Tteligio-Thilosophical Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kear- is
ney-street, San Francisco; 326, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia; IS
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington. IS
Advertising terms on application.
A REVIVAL OF MESMERISM.
A steady revival of public interest in
Mesmerism has been in progress for some
years, and mesmeric practitioners have been
quietly pursuing their calling ever since the
Mesmeric Infirmary in London came to an end.
As a general rule their services have been in
good demand.
In all probability an organisation of mes¬
merists will be formed before long, the de¬
sirability of such a step being generally felt.
The chief difficulty encountered by the former
Mesmeric Infirmary was that it either could
not obtain or could not pay a cultured and
educated class of mesmerists, consequently
those patients who could afford to support
the hospital, did not do so, because they did
not like the operators sent to their homes by
the institution. The mesmerists on the pre¬
mises, had plenty to do however, and effected
marvellous cures, but most of those who
derived benefit could pay little or nothing
to keep up the establishment. Subscriptions
came in from the founders of the Iii-
firmary, but these charitable supplies naturally
dwindled in amount 'year by year; further¬
more the spirited and constant management
of men like Dr. Elliotson being removed
from the Infirmary, enthusiasm died out among
the workers, so the first Mesmeric Hospital
calmly folded it‘s hands and died a peaceful
death.
In any new step in the same direction there¬
fore, care should be taken to engage a few
superior men as operators, whereby the rock
on which the first Mesmeric Infirmary split,
will be avoided.
A VOICE FROM LAODICEA. *
BY F. PODMORE, B.A. (OXON)., F.O.S.
The evidence for the phenomena known as
spiritualistic appears to me logically irrefrag¬
able. The phenomena are narrated on
credible testimony—nay, on the testimony
of reluctant or uninterested witnesses-—to have
occurred in all past time. They are written
* A paper read before the National Association of Spiritualists
February 16th, 1880. - • “     - "
146
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Maroh 26, 1880
in the Bibles, the histories, the folk-lore the ai
minstrelsy of all the world. Poets in all I?
ages have sung them; chroniclers have re- !>
corded them; philosophers have explained or Is
have failed to explain them. And in this last K
generation, whilst they have been witnessed
as before, by competent observers in every j>
department of human knowledge, they have K
even excited the attention of those learned in j<
the laws of the physical universe. These |?
facts which seem to suspend, if not to violate I;
the known laws of nature, have been officially js
sanctioned by many of those who have helped k
to enunciate those laws. The phenomena, |S
from being aliens, are becoming naturalised I;
as lawful subjects of the kingdom of Science. K
They have been accurately classified and re- K
corded ; the conditions under which they occur |<
are being investigated, and their causes assigned. I)
They have in many cases been measured by jS
the rule and weighed in the balance; they K
have been tested by the galvanometer and the k
magnet; and doubtless the time is near at l>
hand when the chemist shall determine the K
exact percentage of nitrogen in spirit albumen, K
and give duodecasyllabic names to their |?
new hydrocarbons. I believe, as I said at |)
the beginning, that the evidence for the facts IS
of what is called Spiritualism is indisputable. Is
It is impossible to doubt either the good faith j(
and accuracy of the witnesses, or the adequacy !?
of the means of investigation which they have |>
employed. Nay more, I have myself seen |<
many .of the physical phenomena, such as k
slate-writing, and the movements of objects |>
without contact, under conditions where jS
trickery or delusion seemed impossible; and K
I have received communications which I could \\
only satisfactorily explain by referring them I?
to some intelligent incorporeal agent. I IS
believe that the theory which maintains the K
existence of such agents is the only one that K
will adequately account for all the occurrences P
vouched for by competent witnesses. As |>
such, I conceive the spirit hypothesis to K
stand on at least as firm a basis as the un- k
dulatory theory of light. And yet, believing |>
all that I have said above to be within the js
limits of fair statement, so far am I from j<
believing in the spiritualistic theory, that I k
cannot even say that I believe the most elemen- j>
tary of the facts which I myself have wit- jS
nessed, and on which that theory is based.
AN ANALYSIS OF PSYCHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS.
If my case were at all an exceptional one, R
I should be guilty of the most impertinent k
egotism in proposing to vivisect my own |S
morbid psychological anatomy before even a
society of professed students of psychology.
But within my own circle of intimates are
some who hold a position similiar to my own.
In the larger world I have reason to believe
that there are many more. Seeing then, that
I am no mere solitary sufierer, but the re¬
presentative to-night of a large class similarly
affected, I would invite your attention to con¬
sider our case, that we may, if possible,
devise some sure prophylactic, some subtle
moral vaccine, which may guard others, if not
relieve ourselves from the attacks of this in¬
sidious malady.
By a device well known to mathematicians,
a single letter may be made to stand for an
intricate formula, so saving a constant and
wearisome repetition. Thus the Greek letter
upi”- or P, represents to the learned the propor¬
tion between the diameter and the circumference
of a circle, and takes the place of a long
decimal fraction. After this analogy, I will
ask you, whenever the word u I ” occurs in
the course of this essay, to substitute for it when
possible some such phrase as “ the class of
sceptics already mentioned, of whom the
writer himself is one.,, By this means I trust
that I shall not offend by thrusting my own
personality too prominently forward, whilst
avoiding a tedious and inelegant periphrasis.
SEANCES, AND THEIR INFLUENCE UPON THE MIND.
I remember reading some time ago, I think
in The Spiriiuali&t newspaper, the account of
a stance which Sir D. Brewster had held with
Mr. D. D. Home. This account was written
some months after the stance. Side by side
with this, was placed another account of the
same stance written by the same man in his
private diary, within a few hours of the occur¬
rences which he narrates. The contrast
presented by these two records is startlingly
instructive. The one was calmly contemptuous
and spoke of the whole matter as merely a
clever, but by no means inexplicable conjuring
performance. The other was the utterance of
a man in doubt; he had seen with his own
eyes things which he could not disbelieve, but
was quite unable to explain. The temporary
effect of the stance was far more marked and
of a totally different character from the im¬
pression left on the mind of the witness a few
months afterwards.
Now I have frequently noticed a precisely
similar affection with regard to these phe¬
nomena both in myself and others. Some six
years ago, when I first heard of Spiritualism,
I instituted a few experiments in table-turning
March 26, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
147
with a circle of intimate friends. The results
most convincingly proved the possibility,
under certain conditions, of mind influencing
mind without the ordinary means of com¬
munication. The evidence for this particular
phenomenon, the spelling out by the table of
words which were in the thoughts of one of
our members, who would be away, and some¬
times even out of the room, was most con¬
clusive. It was all the more so, because in
this particular instance the chances against
mere coincidence were capable of exact cal¬
culation. The probability of our guessing
individual letters correctly, I have calculated
at about 1 in 15, say 7 per cent. Now in
upwards of a hundred trials, the successful
guesses were nearly 40 per cent. These
results, from my own notes made during the
progress of the experiments, seem to have
had a profound effect upon us at the time.
But in looking over these records a few weeks
ago, together with my chief coadjutor—a man
whom I can as little accuse of prejudice as of
want of intelligence—I was astonished to find
that while the impression left on my own
mind was a very slight one, my friend appeared
to have retained hardly any recollection at all
of these experiments.
In the summer of 1876, I went to see Dr.
Slade. I had with him a sitting neither more
nor less successful than the common. Of this
stance I remember writing to some friends,
on the day following, that it had finally
solved my doubts as to the truth of Spiritual¬
ism. In an account of the same stance written
about a fortnight afterwards, and published
in the October number of Human Nature, my
enthusiasm had already begun to abate. Not
only are my assertions more cautious, but
my belief appears more forced than spontaneous.
Still, I find recorded several very anomalous
occurrences, such as slate-writing, the move¬
ments of a chair at a distance, and the ap¬
pearance of a hand, not that of the medium,
And I have stated my emphatic belief that
these phenomena were incapable of explanation
by fraud or trickery, and my strong incli¬
nation to attribute them to spirit agency. In
looking through this article last December, I
found that of all the remarkable phenomena
which I appear to have witnessed on that
occasion, previously to reading the account
again, I could only recollect that I had seen
some writing on a slate, and that I did not see
how it was done.
In 1877, I went with two other persons, to
take a child for treatment by Dr. Mack, the
(
V
\
)
S
(
mesmeric healer. The child’s knee when he
was carried into the room, was swollen to
twice its natural size, inflamed, and so tender
that he refused to allow Dr. Mack to touch it,
or to remove the stocking. In twenty minutes
we three spectators saw, under that magical
treatment, the inflammation wholly disappear,
and the knee restored to its natural size and
colour ; it could now be freely handled, except
in one spot, and the child walked round the
room with greater ease than he had done for
months. Throughno fault of Dr. Mack’s—forthe
case was not a medical, but a surgical one—the
knee returned to its former condition in two
or three days, but the effect at the time was
undoubted. Of this incident I have a very
clear recollection, but, in describing the
treatment under which the injured limb was
eventually healed, I have not heard either
of my co-witnesses make the slightest allusion
to the half-hour spent at Dr. Mack’s, and from
occasional conversations I have every reason
to believe that the occurrence has almost en¬
tirely faded from their memory. I myself,
though I can have no doubt of the facts having
actually taken place as I have narrated, yet
feel very little assurance that my own is not
a unique experience in the history of the world.
Though I have seen such wonderful results in
this particular instance, I find it impossible
to believe in any of the cures effected in the
same manner, of which I am constantly hearing,
and I trust Dr. Mack will forgive me for
saying so. It is not that I am unwilling to
believe: it is a comforting belief for one who
is not over-fond of drugs; I would gladly
believe in the healing power of mesmerism if
I could—but I can’t.
I am continually hearing from intimate
friends detailed accounts of abnormal pheno¬
mena—mesmeric, clairvoyant, psychic, and the
like. I do not doubt the accuracy of the
narrator, still less do I suspect him of any
intention to deceive me. Often the facts of the
case are such as to preclude the possibility of
his having been himself deceived. And yet,
I do not believe a word of what he tells me.
Some four years ago, a lady of goodsocialposition
and undoubted intelligence, communicated to
me the following incidents from her own
personal experience. Of the date I am not
positive; it was before telegraphic communi¬
cation existed between Ireland and this
country. My informant was then living in a
Midland town. A little boy, who was staying
in her house, fell ill of scarlet fever one
Thursday morning. The child died at day-
Maboh 26, 1880.
148 THE SPIRITUALIST.
break on the following Tuesday. In the
interval the parents had been repeatedly written
to, but no reply had been received. That
night, or rather between 12 and 1 a.m. on the
following day, the lady was lying awake in
bed, when she heard the sound of rapid wheels
on the road leading to the house. She listened
and heard the sound stop, as it appeared at
the gate of the drive. She then woke her
husband, telling him that the long expected
parents of the dead boy were come. But on look¬
ing out of the window, they saw no carriage
then. The lady learnt in the morning, that
all the other inmates of the house had heard
the noise of the same mysterious arrival, and
that one or two had like herself looked out
and seen nothing. It appeared afterwards,
that at that very day and hour, the father,
who had been absent from home in a remote
part of Ireland, had received by special mes¬
senger the letters which conveyed the tidings
of his child’s desperate illness. Also that at
the hour of his death on the Tuesday morning,
the form of the child had been seen by his
brother in Ireland, who had told others at the
time what he had seen. I will attempt to
define accurately my state of mind with regard
to this narrative. At the time that I heard
it from my informants’ lips, I probably believed
it. At the time that I am setting down this
account of it on paper, I feel a faint revival
of that belief. But ordinarily, this, and a
hundred incidents like this, do not form part
of my mental constitution at all. I build
nothing on such records, I draw no conclusions
from them. They have ceased to impress me
by the pure wonder of them, and they make
no other impression in its stead. The mind
reflects, but does not photograph them. Like
the memory of dead virtues, they are writ in
water, not in brass.
Now it seems to me that this utter incapa¬
city for belief, is a phenomenon quite as
marvellous as any other of the marvels which
cluster round Spiritualism, and will probably
at least as fully repay an attentive study of
it. Here are men, who have cast aside all pre¬
judices which might stand in the way of
their receiving the facts of Spiritualism. They
are willing, nay anxious, if not to believe, at
least to hear the evidence fully, and decide
upon it fairly. And when the evidence which
they asked for is supplied to them, overwhelm¬
ing in quantity, and unimpeachable in quality,
they find themselves almost unafiected by it.
Inspirational addresses are to them utterances
in an unknown tongue, and the thousand
(\ works on Spiritualism affect them as little as
?! treatises on technical chemistry, or on the sub-
>j divisions of the micro-lepidoptera.
These are men rejected by the one side, and
([ half welcomed by the other. Sometimes they
)j succeed in almost breaking away from Spirit-
> ualism, they mix with the world, imbibe the
> world’s opinions, and become almost of the
h world, until a chance conversation, a casual
?! memory reduces them again to their unwilling
>| thraldom. At other times, they become
si almost Spiritualists ; they have been reading
(] a good deal perhaps, or been thrown much
?| with those of that way of thinking, and they
>| congratulate themselves that certainty is at
s! last within their reach, and prepare to enter
cl the race for a martyr’s crown, by preaching
| an unpopular and unwelcome truth. And
iji then, after the lapse of a few quiet weeks,
I comes the next great ‘‘exposure,” and more
| deadly still, the comments on that exposure by
i a certain class of Spiritualists, and the ex-
| planations of it. And the fabric which had
s| been so toilsomely reared topples over in a
?! moment. And the whirlwind of doubt not
?! only carries down in ruin the superstructure,
>1 but shakes the very foundations. Of course
?| this is illogical, and not as it should be. The
?! diamonds which a jeweller has, and has proved,
?! are not the less diamonds because he is for
?! once taken in, and gives a hundred guineas
?! for a brilliant of paste. Mr. Sludge when
!?| left to himself is caught playing the ghost
?| with a sheet, and some phosphorised oil; but
>| the fact that a few dajs before, when Mr.
Kj Sludge’s hands were fast held, my arm-chair
!?! danced a hornpipe in the corner of the room,
|?i is not thereby disproved. If I deemed my
!?| tests sufficient at any time to guard against
<| fraud, they are sufficient still. If they were
!?l not sufficient, I ought never to have believed
!?! at all. To discredit my chair’s saltatory per-
1 I formance only now, argues a want of scientific
Is! accuracy in the past, or of logical acumen in the
k! present. We come back, then, to the point
!?! from which we started. Believing the testi-
K mony to many of these phenomena to be
Kj logically indisputable, and believing in the
I ! evidence of my own senses in their favour, I
!;j ought to believe in the actual occurrence of
I? | the phenomena called Spiritualistic. Yery
?| good, but I don’t believe, and if put on my
]?! defence I can only cry “ Peccavi.”
What then is the nature of belief ? From
!?! what, if not from reason, does it proceed ? By
m what laws, other than those of logic, does it
i?! act? The analysis of a few instances, where
March 26, 1880.
THE S P I E I T UAL 1ST.
149
all agree in believing, may help us to under¬
stand under what circumstances belief is with¬
held.
In walking westward down Ludgate Hill a
few months ago, on the south side of the street,
I received a blow across the face, causing me
to close my eyelids. I opened them almost
immediately, but could see nothing by which
the blow could have been given. Certainly
there was no hansom cab in sight, within a
reasonable distance, yet I believe that the blow
came from the projecting lash of the whip of a
hansom cab, which had probably just hurried
out of sight in the direction of Blackfriars
Bridge, when I looked up. Why do I believe
that this was so, and yet not believe that the
caress which I have often received at a stance
proceeded from a spirit hand ? It would ap¬
pear that there is stronger evidence for the
last than for the first: for the hand is often
seen, the whip-lash in this case was not. My
belief is given in the one case, and withheld in
the other, chiefly, it would seem, for two
reasons. I am familiar with the existence of
hansom cabs, and with their mode of action.
I have driven in them, and occasionally, I have
been nearly driven over by them. A hansom
cab is unquestionably a vera causa. Now
spirits are not so. I have no other evidence
for the existence of spirits than these phe¬
nomena themselves, and any preconceived
opinion which I may have had on their mode
of action, is entirely opposed to what I here
find attributed to them. But this is not
enough to justify my unbelief, for the existence
of everything must some time or other be
proved for the first time. I believe in the
existence of what are called atoms, of the lu¬
miniferous ether, and of the element fluorine
which has never yet been handled or seen,
on evidence of apparently the same nature, but
far less cogent than that which I here find in¬
sufficient to induce belief. I have not the
least doubt of the existence of the last dis¬
covered metal, or the newest asteroid. I be¬
lieve in thallium, though I do not remember
to have ever seen it, and I do not—without
intending the least disrespect to their common
discoverer—I do not believe in u Katie King.”
To be Continued.
 » ■
Mrs. Paton is obtaining strong flower manifestations
in Melbourne.
An organisation under the name of the St. Thomas
Association of Spiritualists has been formed in the
Island of St. Thomas, West Indies, and it already has
one hundred members, including a trance medium, Mr.
Charles E. Taylor.
Ki
[Great freedom is given to correspondents who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned; copies
should he kept hy the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.
ETERNAL PUNISHMENT.
Sir,—Your remarks open up several points in con¬
troversial theology, on none of which shall I attempt
to enter.
Firstly, because it does not concern me to defend the
dogma of eternal punishment, or any other part of my .
individual belief.
Secondly, the example of the “ more intelligent
divines,” who repeat the arguments of Origen (Peri-
archon, cap 6.) warns me against ranking myself under
their banner. As one whose intellect is probably only
level with that of the “children,” and the “enthusiastic
women,” who attend “ aesthetic and pleasing” services.
I must kneel with tranquillity under your rod. In this
position it is consolatory to share a position held by St.
Ignatius, S. Thomas Aquinas, St. Gregory, St. Augus¬
tine, St. John Damascene, St. Bernard, St. John Ohry- .
sostom, and a few others, some of whom are thought
“intelligent,” all of whom were not “ children” or
“women,” and can scarcely be said to have been
“enthusiastic” in the sense of being imaginative or
credulous.
Not knowing the united decree by which Spiritualists
have agreed to denounce the dogma of eternal punish¬
ment, it is more comforting to know something of the
points in which the Catholic Church, who defines her
creed, is in accordance with the various spiritual doc¬
trines, and to find out the points on which we agree.
That 1. There is a Divine Providence; 2. A future life
after death; 3. That sins committed in this world are .
punished in the next; 4. That certain souls are in a
condition where they may be helped by the suffrages
of the faithful—are points which Catholics abide on,
and which I think that all Spiritualists do not contra¬
dict. Such doctrines have been, as you well say, like
“ a lump of honest quartz in front of the steam roller
of modern progress.” Sometimes the roller does not
succeed in crushing it, the machinery is thrown out of
gear, and the riders or the roller are spilt in the mud.
But, however the piece of quartz may be shattered, it
always remains silex, as hard as the larger piece from
whence it was broken. That an institution which is
directly opposed to the materialist and agnostic philo¬
sophies of the day, and which its syllabus has declared
to be irreconoileable with modern science, should be in
the way of some, I can well imagine. But it is not the
Spiritualist, in the enlarged sense in which I have
always used the word, as opposed to the Animist, in
whose path the power which sways so many minds,
has placed itself.
Permit me also just to say that the excellent man
Turricremata was not named Torquemada by his family,
and that the punning word by which his adversaries
have called him on the theory that his patronymic was
a Spanish one, is so obviously a feeble and depreciatory
joke, that historians have long since restored him to
the title of a family, whose coat of arms exactly indi¬
cates his real name. The whole history of the Inqui¬
sition in Spain is a subject well worthy the attention
of historians, and the life of B. Peter Arbues is suit¬
able for the perusal of all Spiritualists.
I may, in conclusion, ask those Spiritualists who
care to know what the Catholic Church has said rer.
specting the dogma of eternal punishment, to read a::
little book, published last year by my venerable friend,:
150
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Mabch 26, 1880.
the very Revd. Pius Melia, D.D. entitled “ Words of a
believer on the ways of Providence towards man here
and hereafter,” (8vo. Dolmans, 1879) and they will
enjoy the advantage of perusing the original passages
at the foot of all the quotations given.
0. Carter Blake.
79, Chancery Lane, W.C., March 20th, 1880.
THREE QUESTIONS. kj
Sir,—Three subjects are prominently before us now iSj
upon which it would be well to have a general ex- i)i
pression of opinion from your readers ; they are Kj
Mysticism, Will-Power, and Sexualism.
Mysticism seems to have been the great weakness of j)j
mankind from the earliest times, and even to-day how K{
prone we all are to have a secret. What an important j)j
part the “ Mystery man ” plays amongst aboriginal \}\
races, and with what bated breath the mystery writers Kj
tell us of the mysteries of the Egyptians. The secret !)!
of the Rosicrucians, and of the wonderful meanings Kj
underlying the signs of the Zodiac. When we come ISj
however to examine them in the daylight of reason j);
and science we find, as Thackeray found on taking Kj
off King George’s last waistcoat, “ nothing.”
The Spiritualist has always set its face against this jn
mystery-mongering and endeavoured to set what facts it is
had, before us in a scientific and intelligible manner; I;I
it is time therefore that this bugbear of humanity, this lO
Mumbo Jumbo business were relegated to the limbo of jsl
“ old Bogey ” for ever. I do not mean any alliteration j)j
when I say that this mystery is a mist which must be j(j
dispelled. What we want is not so much “ more light ” j)j
but “less mist,” and I would ask any man who has kj
dabbled in this mystery business, either as an Astro- jsj
loger, Freemason, Theosophist, or any other form of it, j/
to say candidly is it worth one pinch of snuff as a i^j
matter of useful knowledge ?
Will-Power: This is comparatively a more modern Kj
invention, and taken in a qualifying sense such as Kj
determination, persistence, never-say-die meaning is i)j
right enough ; but when we are told of the things done jc j
by Yogees and Fakirs the question naturally arises, jsj
supposing it to be so, of what practical use is the power j)j
to cut oneself to pieces and put oneself together again ? ' j( j
To do this requires according to their own shewing, a j)i
long course of training, takes the individual from the
field of earthly labour, for which it incapacitates him, !(!
and absorbs his faculties from his earth-life duties.
Sexualism : A tirade against the so-called “animal” |cj
man is fashionable just now. We are told to crucify jsj
the sexual instinct, that spirituality can only be at- j)j
tained thereby, and that the virgin and celibate only !(i
can attain to the higher beatitudes. According to this ; >!
doctrine the present creation is a mistake. It is repor- j)j
ted of Philip of Spain that upon one occasion he j)j
remarked that “ if the world were to be created again j)
he could suggest some very valuable improvements.” jn
Had he been a Theosophist he would probably have is!
made us hermaphrodites, or bi-sexed like the snails, j)j
and thus have saved a double creation, as well in the k
interest of the economies of nature as of the welfare of i)j
our souls. S.
London, March 19th, 1880.
A NEW TRANCE MEDIUM. I(j
Sir,—Probably not many of your readers are aware K
even of the existence of the newly sprung up town of j)j
Millom, on the West Cumberland coast, and joining ju
the northern end of Lancashire, much less of the j)j
existence of Mr. H. Taylor, a most excellent trance j)j
medium, who lives there, in a modest, unostentatious K
sort of way. I had the pleasure of visiting him on i)j
Sunday last, and could hardly help calling to mind the
oft-quoted lines:—
“ Full many a gem of purest ray serene
The dark unfathomed caves of ocean bear ;
Full many a flower is bom to blush unseen.
And waste its sweetness on the desert air.”
Mr. Taylor is really a gem, and although not literally
“ wasting his sweetness on the desert air,” it was im¬
possible not to be struck with the apparent fact that
were he more widely known, and his services utilised,
the cause of Spiritualism would be far more widely
benefitted than if his gifts were confined to the rather
circumscribed circle to which he now almost solely
devotes his services. At the afternoon service there
were perhaps some twenty persons present; all, I be¬
lieve, earnest Spiritualists, and there seemed to exist
that kindly and harmonious feeling which should be
the first out-come of all spiritual teachings. Mr.
Taylor’s guide chose a subject of discourse suggested
by the day (Palm Sunday), and treated it in a most
admirable manner. I don’t suppose you could spare
space for even an outline of the discourse, but I trust
the exigencies of your valuable paper are not such as
will preclude the insertion of this notice of a medium
whose capacities for extended usefulness seem to me
to be next to lost, in consequence of his being so com¬
paratively unknown. W. Atkinson.
Ulverston.
QOSWELL TTAT.T. SUNDAY MEETINGS.
Sir,—Would you be so kind as to announce in this
week’s issue, that a trance address will be delivered
through Mr. J. J. Morse at the above Hall on Sunday
next (28th March). Subject: “ The Prophecy of
Spiritualism,” an anniversary address.
H. J. Stevens, Son. Sec.
OUR NATIONAL VICE.
Sir,—I am very anxious to distribute gratuitously
a little work called “ Salvation for the Drunkard,”
recently published by Mr. Ernest Gough.
I will gladly send a copy to anyone writing for it, in
the hope that it may prove of moral and material
benefit to those who unhappily need its advice.
If you will allow these few words to appear in your
influential paper, I shall be sincerely obliged, and
remain, Sir, your obedient servant,
Bessie Chambers.
64, Chester Square, London, S.W. March 19th, 1880.
COMMUNITY OF SENSATION AT A SEANCE.
BY L. F. CLAVAIROZ (LEON FAVRE), CONSUL-GENERAL OF
FRANCE AT TRIESTE.
Every Friday several friends meet at my
house, and await communications from such
spirits as may he kind enough to attend. One
of the most earnest of those spirits is an Italian
officer, Alfonso Brunetti, who is well known to
the readers of the various Spiritualistic journals;
he is good and playful, always ready to render
a service, hut apt to play jokes upon those he
visits.
One of my friends left for Lisbon, and was
at sea on the following Friday. “Ask Alfonso,”
said he to me, “ to accompany me on my de¬
parture. On Friday night he will be able to
tell you how I am progressing on my journey^
March 26, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
151
A SPIRITUALISTIC SOIREE.
and 1 will write to yon myself from Lisbon to
check the statements of the controlling spirit.”
This was done. On the following Friday
all our friends assembled; Alfonso also kept
the appointment. (< Your friend,” said he,
“ has not been altogether ill, but his system is
disturbed. The weather was worse this morn¬
ing than this evening, but there is another
squall. Quick ! Quick ! A basin ! ”
Scarcely had our writing medium, Caterina,
read the words which she had written, than
she became violently sea-sick. Her mother
and another lady at the seance were attacked in
the same way, and I myself felt veritable in¬
ternal disturbance. ' I administered a cordial
to the other lady, which calmed her a little, but
after the sickness had a little passed off another
attack began, and she had to submit to all the
consequences of a great storm at sea.
Our astonishment, although great, increased
on seeing our little dog, Lavanaise, swaying
right and left, as if carried by the waves, and
groaning as if she were sea-sick.
We returned to the table, and Alfonso,
laughing mischievously with pleasure at the
trick he had played, said although he never
thought that Caterina would have absorbed all
the influence he had intended to bring to bear
only on our lady-friend, still, he loved a joke.
All that night and all the next day the three
ladies were suffering from the effects of the
stance, and from wont of sleep. Caterina was
unable to think of the absent voyager without
feeling ill again.
In this case spirits had the power to act
upon the human organism and to destroy its
harmony at their will. If then, they possess
this power, there is all the more reason why the
well-intentioned among them should be induced
to use it in the opposite direction, and we
should encourage this kind of developement
among our mediums,
Faria, March 22nd, 1880.
A Haunted Man.—On the 26th of January, at Yass,
in New South Wales, a man who gave the name of
Thomas Coulthard, gave himself into the custody of
Sub-inspector Brennan, and confessed to having, in
January, 1878, at Everton, near Liverpool, England,
poisoned his wife with prussic acid. He describes him¬
self as a chemist and druggist, and states that he was
madly jealous of his wife, who was also his cousin.
After his wife’s death he fastened lead to the head and
feet, placed the body in a sack, and threw it into the
river Mersey. Shortly after, he sailed for Melbourne,
whence he came to this colony about eight months ago.
He has lately been working on Greenfield Parm, near
Yass. He asserts that he has been utterly wretched
ever since committing the murder, and that his wife’s
vision appears to him almost nightly. He appears to
be in his right senses, and repeats his story coherently.
He is 28 years of age.—Sydney Morning Herald.
Last Wednesday a Spiritualistic soiHe was held
at 38, Great Russell Street, London. During the
evening the Misses Withall entertained the company
with a duet upon the piano, after which the Misses
Beaumont and Mr. Thomason joined in a trio, whilst Mr.
Mason played the accompaniment; the piece was ex¬
cellently rendered, and the harmony perfect. Mr. T. L.
Nichols, M.D., then gave a description of a birthday
stance at Malvern, through the mediumship of Mr.
Eglinton; he said that some of these who were present
at it desired that it should not be published, as some of
the facts were likely to invite the ridicule of persons
ignorant of the nature of spiritual phenomena. Miss
Evelyn Beaumont then sang Charles Swain’s prettily
worded song, beginning—
Oh! merry goes the time when the heart is young,
There’s nought too high to climb when the heart is young ;
A spirit of delight
Scatters roses in her flight
And there’s magic in the night, when the heart is young.
The song closed with the following verse :—
Vet an angel from its sphere, though the heart be old,
Whispers comfort in our ear, though the heart be old,
Saying,
Saying:
“ Age from out the tomb,'
“ Shall immortal youth assume,
“ And spring eternal bloom, where no heart is old.”
Miss Lilian Beaumont gave the accompaniment, and
altogether it was one of the best pieces of the evening.
Mr. Thomason afterwards sang “ The Diver,” and
Miss Lilian Beaumont “ Sleep.” Two good recitations
by Mr. Dietz followed; a quartette was sung by the
Misses Beaumont, Mr. Thomason, and Mr. J. C. Ward.
Miss Beaumont sang a solo, and the entertainment con¬
cluded with the singing of “The Message” by Mr.
Ward.
CURIOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIENCES.
Three mysterious occurrences, difficult to
explain, have come within my personal ex¬
perience, or more truly speaking, knowledge.
A DEATH WARNING.
I happened to be calling on a poor woman,
who is ill, and whose wants I take care are
attended to, when, hearing a sudden noise and
commotion outside her door, I opened it and
found a young man of twenty in a dying state,
he having just ruptured a blood-vessel. In
ten minutes he was dead. The poor mother’s
distress was terrible, this being her fourth and
last child. The day after the funeral, I tried
hard to give her some courage and hope, her
son having died under peculiar circumstances,
he being as she expressed it—“ A son and
youth without reproach in his life and ways,
with the one exception that he had left the
church (Catholic), and had more than a year
ago, left with her a written paper, insisting
that in the event of his death he should be
buried without a priest.” This to her was a
152
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Maboh 25, 1880.
fearful dread, especially as the Church party
and priests also, made it the occasion to in¬
timidate others by working on this poor
ignorant bereayed woman’s fears, by telling
her that as he had died outside the Church and
without the sacrament, his soul would be
damned.
I am thankful to say, I brought her some
little hope that God’s judgment was not
man’s. Then she opened her heart to me, and
among other things told me that on the Monday
night preceding his death (he died on Wednes¬
day at 3 p.m.) he called her out of her sleep,
telling her he would die. She went to him in
fear, but he would tell her nothing more than
that he would die. He had been ill some time,
though not confined to bed, she tried to reason
with him by reminding him how much better he
was than he had been since his illness. Nothing
more was said, but the next day he seemed
quite cheerful; he told his mother to have a
nice dinner and to have it early as he wished
her to go to hear the band play in the afternoon.
While she was attending to the dinner a young
friend called; during the conversation the
young man asked his friend what day of the
month it was, and was told “ the fourth.”
“ Ah well,” he said, “ I shall go to the music
all the same, but I shall not see the fifth; my
time will be up.” The son’s friend told this
conversation to the mother the evening of the
day her son died. His words of the Monday
night coupled with this remark to his friend,
convinced her that he knew he was to die that
day. To know he was so soon to leave her,
and to eat his dinner so calmly, and then go to
the band, all the while so gentle and attentive
to her, and yet not to tell her his thoughts and
knowledge, but to leave her without a parting
word, was so cruel, she said.
From what I have since learned, I feel that
if in some way the son had been told of his
death as to happen on the 5th, his silence to¬
wards his mother was to save her as long as
possible, or perhaps to have his last hours
with her free from anxiety or religious im¬
portunities. He died on Wednesday, 4th
of February.
A VENOMOUS SPIDER.
Incident number two occurred to a young
lady of my acquaintance, a winter visitor at
Cannes, who told me of a strange thing that
happened to her. She says that at one of the
hotels she put up at to break the journey, and
about half an hour after she had fallen asleep,
she dreamt that she saw a large horrible spider
on the wall by her bedside. It was of a size
II and kind she had never seen before, and so
| great was her fear of it, she awoke. Thinking
| it only a dream, she fell asleep again, being
| very tired. Once more she saw it in her sleep,
| and again her fear caused her to awake. Fa-
| tigue and sleep again overcame her, but only
| to once more dream of the spider, always in
I the same place, always filling her with the
| same fear. This time, however, she was so
I impressed with her dream that she could not
| rest, and called to her friend sleeping in the
I adjoining room to come to her, and to bring a
| light. Immediately on her friend’s entrance,
I she looked at the wall, and to her horror the
| spider was there, just as she had seen it three
| times in her sleep. In an instant she was out
I of bed, and never having seen a spider so large
| and strange, she rang the bell to ask about it
| and have it destroyed. The servant said that
| it was well she had seen it, as it was a most
| venomous one.
As I am known to make a study of this sort
of thing, my friends are always asking me to
explain some mystery or other,
A DEATH-BED APPARITION.
My third incident is of greater interest, being
truly strange. My most intimate friend here
is a young girl of Swiss and Russian parentage,
who promises to become a painter of some fame
in the future. During the daughter’s visit to
London last summer, the mother fell ill, an
illness that ended in death last January. The
mother was a woman of high family, and her¬
self of high intellectual attainments. The
father, a physician, who happened to go to
Paris, also fell ill, so that husband and wife
were both ill, one here, the other at Paris.
Fearing to do harm, neither was told of the
other’s extreme illness, yet both knew of the
illness of each being sufficient to prevent the
long voyage being undertaken. The mother,
also my friend, was a firm believer in immor¬
tality, and in the power of the spirit to return
to the earth and visit as well as make its
presence known to the living, a subject we fre¬
quently conversed about, Madame telling
me of having herself seen apparitions. Yet
she was much opposed to evoking them, and
to what is called modem Spiritualism. Her
daughter, the young girl I speak of, was a be¬
liever in nothing, and almost a sceptic in its
hardest sense; she loved her mother, and this
was a great jar between them, for her mother
was a Christian, deep and real, but with no
narrow views. She was prepared to die, and
had no shrinking from it. She truly believed
that to die was gain. Her constant prayer was
March 26, 1880.
that her daughter might also receive the same
belief of the future life. It was a trying ex- |
pcrience for so young a girl to see her mother
dying, and to feel this great division in their
two souls.
It was a painful illness ; inch by inch only
was she relieved by death. The morning of
her death she lay as it were in a deep
sleep. A friend was with the daughter;
they both stood by the bedside, not know¬
ing if it were really sleep or death. Sud¬
denly Madame came to, and exclaimed
“Oh, who were those two beautiful angels who
carried me in their arms? ” then she became
convulsed ; great drops of cold damp collected
on her face. Then she spoke and said “ How
delicious ! ” then the limbs seemed suddenly to
stiffen and all was over. This was on a Mon¬
day morning, about eleven o’clock. On the
Monday night the two friends were standing
by the bed looking at the lifeless body, and
conversing of the mother they both mourned,
one as a daughter, the other as a friend, and
also of this strange thing Death, and of the
wonderful faith that could make her exclaim
“ How delicious, ” even in the seeming agony
of departure, neither of them being able to
understand it, being both non-believers. Sud¬
denly Miss began staring intensely at the
foot of her mother’s bed, as if she saw some
strange light; she motioned for her Mend to
look, but she saw nothing. Miss then
said “ But I see my father. How strange!
He looks as one dead; he is so changed, his
beard is so long, he is so thin and he is dressed
and not lying on a bed; it cannot be my father,
what can it be ? ” Some voice seemed to say
to her “ Yes, it is your father and he is dead.”
Then she saw and heard no more.
This was a wonderful thing for those two girls,
for neither doubted but that it was a vision, j
The daughter seemed all at once to have be- ;
come convinced of the reality of immortality, |
and when I went in the morning to them she |
told me of her vision and of her conviction I!
that her father must have died also. Late ||
that afternoon an old friend of her mother’s |j
called to tell her of a telegram he had just j<
received, stating the sudden death of her <
father, only a few hours before that of her j<
mother, and not at Paris, but on his way to j<
his son’s, who had gone to the city (from j<
Switzerland) to bring his father to his com- j<
fortable home, the doctors having said that jj
they thought he was equal to the journey and |<
they hoped that at his son’s house, his needs l<
would be much better cared for than in Paris. P
153
About the fourth station from the city he wa
|| found to be dying and was immediately removed
! into the station, where he soon expired and
| “ not on a bed.” When Monsieur , who
i is a clergyman, said to Miss  , “ I am
I come to tell you of a double bereavement,” she
| responded “Yes, I know my father is dead. I
<| saw him last night.” He thought she was
?j wandering from fatigue and grief, but she told
>! him her vision, as she calls it.
Last summer when conversing with the
<1 mother on the subject of spirit life, she told me
(| that when this same daughter was about two
>| years old, a little brother, aged six, of whom
)j she was very fond, died. The evening of, or
d after, (I forget which) his death, when the
A family was in an adjoining room, this little
>j sister came to them from another room, saying
si —and calling her little dead brother by name—
< I that he was not in bed but was playing with her
<i in the other room. They followed the child,
!>j but saw nothing, nor did she, though seeming
I not to understand what had become of him.
j Madame   told me that for two weeks,
| this baby-child seemed to be conscious of the
| presence of her little brother, and always
I about the same time—even to seeming to hear
! him speak.
I send you these items of strange things, as
'A facts I have from the individuals themselves.
s| The two friends have also since seemed to have
<| received news or tidings from “ the other side.*’
?| So convinced are they of this power that they
)| have had me to pass two or three nights with
them, hoping that we three might be visited
j| either by the mother’s, or by my own dear
j I child’s spirit, whose loss has made death-—
>| even though immortality may not follow—a
s| thing to be desired, “ a gain.” But nothing
o came to us, even while my soul longed for
?! some token to build a hope upon, longed as
only a hungry soul can long, as only a humail
u being whose last tie is severed, can hope a for-
h lorn hope. I thought you might be interested
ji in these real facts, and should you think them
>j of value you are at liberty to use them, only
>| I must ask you not to mention any names in
J! connection with the incidents. I have not
>| asked if I may send them, but as they have
>! been freely spoken of and are known to many
Ij persons here, I feel at liberty to speak of them.
Cannes, France, March 16th, 1880. X
Mr. Walker, the Australian trance medium, is about
to give public lectures in South Africa, in consequence
of that indefatigable Spiritualist, Mr. Berks Hutchin¬
son, of Cape Town, having engaged him for that
purpose. ' - * - "r5-
THE SPIRITUALIST.
154
March 26, 1880
THE SPIRITUALIST.
A YORKSHIRE GHOST STORY.
“ What I am going to relate happened to myself
while staying with some North-country cousins, last
July, at their house in Yorkshire. I had spent a few
days there in the summer of the previous year, but
without then hearing or seeing anything out of the
common. On my second visit, arriving early in the
afternoon, I went out boating with some of the family,
spent a very jolly evening, and finally went to bed—a
little tired, perhaps, with the day’s work, but not the
least nervous. I slept soundly until between three and
four, just when the day was beginning to break. I
had been awake for a short time when suddenly the
door of my bedroom opened and shut again rather
quickly. I fancied it might have been one of the
servants, and called out, * Come in ! ’ After a short
time the door opened again, but no one came in—at least,
no one that I could see. Almost at the same time that
the door opened for the second time, I was a little
startled by the rustling of some curtains belonging to a
hanging wardrobe, which stood by the side of the bed ;
the rustling continued, and I was seized with a most
uncomfortable feeling, not exactly of fright, but a
strange, unearthly sensation that I teas not alone. I had
had that feeling for some minutes, when I saw at the
foot of the bed a child, about seven or nine years old.
The child seemed as if it were on the bed, and came
gliding towards me as I lay. It was the figure of a
little girl in her night-dress—a little girl with dark hair
and a very white face. I tried to speak to her, but
could not. She came slowly on up to the top of the
bed, and I then saw her face clearly. She seemed in
great trouble; her hands were clasped and her eyes
were turned up with a look of entreaty, an almost
agonised look. Then, slowly unclasping her hands,
she touched me on the shoulder. The hand felt icy
cold, and while I strove to speak she was gone, I felt
more frightened after the child was gone than before,
and began to be very anxious for the time when the
servant would make her appearance. Whether I slept
again or not I • hardly know. But by the time the
servant did come, I had almost persuaded myself that
the whole affair was nothing but a very vivid night¬
mare. However, when I came down to breakfast,
there were many remarks made about my not looking
well—it was observed that 1 was pale. In answer I
told my cousins that I had had a most vivid nightmare,
and I remarked if I was a believer in ghosts I should
imagine I had seen one. Nothing more was said at
the time upon this subject, except that my host, who
was a doctor, observed that I had better not sleep in
the room again, at any rate not alone.
“So the following night one of my cousins slept in
the same room with me. Neither of us saw or heard
anything out of the way during the night or the early
morning. That being the case, I persuaded myself
that what I had seen had been only imagination, and,
much against everybody’s expressed wish, I insisted
* This narrative is extracted from last week’s Notes and Qneries,
the editor of which journal says:—“The following interesting
communication (title included) has been handed to me by a
young lady, who is as intelligent as she is charming. Her here¬
ditary acumen precludes altogether the possibility of any self-
deceit in regard to her own personal experiences, as narrated by
herself. Nor is this the whole of the evidence on the subject, as
the reader will see. There are other witnesses to be called. In
the conviction, therefore, that this statement (sharply distin¬
guishable as it is from all previous ones of a kindred nature
known to me) contains matter of unquestionable interest to every
sort of thinker, I submit it to the consideration of the readers of
“ N. & Q.” The scene of the occurrences is an old mansion in
the north of Yorkshire; cosy and cheerful though large and
lonely in point of site.”
the next night on sleeping in the room again, and
alone. Accordingly, having retired again to the same
room, I was kneeling down at the bedside to say my
prayers, when exactly the same dread as before came
over me. The curtains of the wardrobe swayed about,
and I had the same sensation as previously, that I was
not alone. I felt too frightened to stir, when luckily
for me, one of my cousins came in for something which
she had left. On looking at me she exclaimed, ‘ Have
you seen anything ? ’ I said * No,’ but told her how I
felt, and, without much persuasion being necessary, I
left the room with her, and never returned to it.
When my hostess learnt what had happened (as she
did immediately) she told me I must not sleep in that
room again, as the nightmare had made such an im>
pression on me ; I should imagine (she said) all sorts
of things and make myself quite ill. I went to another
room, and during the rest of my visit (a week), I was
not troubled by any reappearance of the little girl.
“ On leaving, my cousin, the eldest daughter of the
doctor, went on a visit with me to the house of an uncle
of mine in the same county. We stayed there for
about a fortnight, and during that time the ‘ little girl ’
was alluded to only as my 1 nightmare.’
“ In this I afterwards found there was a little re¬
ticence, for, just before leaving my uncle’s, my cousin
said to me, ‘ I must tell you something I have been
longing to tell you ever since I left home, but my
father desired me not *to tell you, as, not being very
strong, you might be too frightened. Your nightmare
was not a nightmare at all, but the apparition
of a little girl.’ She then went on to tell me that this
‘ little girl ’ had been seen three times before, by three
different members of the family, but as this was nine
or ten years since, they had almost ceased to think
anything about it until I related my experiences on the
morning after the first night of my second visit.
“ My cousin further went on to tell me that her
younger sister whilst in bed had one morning, about
daybreak, to her great surprise, seen a little girl with
dark hair, standing with her back to her, looking out
of the window. She took this figure for her little sister,
and spoke to it. The child not replying or moving
from her position, she called out to it, ‘ It’s no use
standing like that; I know you. You can’t play tricks
with me.’ On looking round, however, she saw that
her little sister, the one she thought she was addressing
and who was sleeping with her, had not moved from
the bed. Almost at the same time the child passed
from the window into the room of her (my cousin’s)
sister A., and the latter, as she afterwards declared,
distinctly saw the figure of a child with dark hair stand¬
ing by the side of a table in her room. She spoke to
it, and it instantly disappeared. The * little girl ’ was
subsequently again seen, for the last time before I saw
it, by my cousin’s father, Dr. H. It was in the early
daylight of a summer’s morning, and he was going
upstairs to his room, having just returned from a pro¬
fessional visit. On this occasion he saw the same child
(he noticed its dark hair) running up the stairs im¬
mediately before him, until it reached his room and
entered it. When he got into the room it was gone.
“Thus the apparition has been seen three times by
the family, and once by me. I am the only one, how¬
ever, that has seen its face. It has also never been
seen twice in the same room by any one else.”
H. 0. 0*
* The spirit was evidently in trouble and wanted help of some
kind. A Spiritualist would have adopted means to get a mes¬
sage from her, and to give her the desired aid.—Editor of
Spiiitualist.
March 26, 1880*
THE SPIRITUALIST,
155
DR. SLADE IN THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS.
A communication received by the last mail
from Mr. J. Simmons, who has at last rejoined
Dr. Slade, informs us thatthat celebrated medium
is now giving seances in the Colorado district,
and a copy of the Rocky Mountain News, of
March 4th, published at Denver, gives an in¬
teresting account of a seance with Dr. Slade, at
which one of the representatives of that journal
was present. Among other things the reporter
says:—
Two slates—ordinary school slates to all in¬
tents and purposes—were taken from the table
and given the reporter for examination. They
were as clean on both sides as sponge and water
could make them. The medium, then taking
up from the table some small bits of slate pen¬
cil, no larger than rice grains and probably
twice as long, laid them upon one of the slates
and turned the other over it. He then placed
the two slates upon the reporter’s shoulder,
merely keeping a grasp upon them between
his thumb and forefinger. This was no sooner
done than the bits of pencil began to scratch,
making the sounds of writing as clearly as any
body would wish for. The sounds of dotting
the e’s and crossing* the tf’s could be heard dis-
tmctly. In eight or ten minutes a pencil,
which now seemed to be alone in its movements,
gave two “ ticks ” upon the slate and all was
silent. The slates were taken down and apart.
The reporter was astounded. Tho bottom
slate of the two was found filled with writing
—clear, legible writing—but evidently by
different bands. The slate was covered from
top to bottom, and the last word was observed
to be in the very corner of the bottom. The
bits of pencil were also examined. At the
end of each of the paragraphs was found the
remainder of the bit of slate pencil dropped
just where the word was ended. An examina¬
tion of this writing showed it to contain six
different paragraphs, and five of these in
different languages, and in. different styles of
hand-writing.
1. Meine Liebe sei mit euch Allen in Christo Jesu.
2. Quis ego sum, Domine Deus quia adduxisti me.
8. E men gar Ekklesia, kai per kath’ oles tea oikou-
menes cos peraton tes tes diespasmene.
4. Regula est autem fidei, ut jam bine quid audamus
profitiamur ilia scilicit qua auditur.
5. Le bonheur s’acbete par le sacrifice—Dieu ne
donne rien pour rien.
6. Perils and misfortune, and want and pain and
injury, are more or less the lot of all men that come
into the world.
As soon as the reporter could collect his
scattered senses consequent upon this amazing
revelation, he sought an explanation for it, but
u all in vain. The medium called it Spiritualism
?| and confessed that he knew nothing of the
>| causes leading to the phenomena.
The reporter does not pretend to know
<| what caused these singular demonstrations.
The transcription given above is nearly correct,
;j though in one or two instances the words
Si could not be made out with absolute accuracy.
(| LOVE’S FOUR SEASONS.
(j Spring; ah! yes, sweet gentle season,
Fresh with greenness, like the heart,
Filled with lore’s first silent throbbings
> For a voice which makes thee start.
Trembling without rhyme or reason,
When those eyes upon you dart
Lightning glances—whose fond meanings
c j Something more than words impart.
Summer next, with radiant glory,
Reigns; sweet flowers scent the air,
Roses, red and white, fair lilies,
) i Bloom in beauty everywhere.
S) Ah! who then would not be happy ?
Heart at rest, blue sky above,
Told again the old, old story
Of an everlasting love.
Autumn, rich in golden splendour,
Then at e’en ’tis sweet to roam
'Mid the brightly tinted cornfields
Gathering poppies to take home.
Later still brown leaves are falling,
Flowers fade, birds disappear ;
So my love has changed towards me,
Filled my heart with deep despair.
Winter! cold, bleak, dreary winter,
Can it be that once so bright
All the earth has seemed around me,
Now as desolate as night?
Like the Soul, with silent sorrow,
Frozen, empty, filled with care,
That never more will know the summer
Be it e’er so bright or fair.
Leo
V:
—*
Comspottircnt.
G. A. F.| Colombo: Posted to you last week.
S unday Services .—Last Sunday evening at a Spiri
<| ualistic meeting at the Goswell Hall, Mr. Duguid
>1 addressed the meeting. Among the speakers who
followed him were Mr. Enmore Jones, Mr. Towns, and
<| Mr. A. T. T. Peterson, who occupied the chair. Mr.
)j Earn ore Jones expressed the opinion that Spiritualists
)l should agree to keep the one fact before the public that
vi proof abounds in our midst of the reality of a spirit
>1 world, and that means exist for establishing communi-
?j cation with that world. On minor points they might,
)\ in a friendly way, differ in opinion in private ; for
)\ instance, he (Mr. Jones) might wm*k in his little Church
(j of England corner, another Spiritualist might work in
)\ a Roman Catholic groove, whilst a third might perhaps
>! advance the tenets of Buddhism, but let none introduce
si irrelevant disputes aside from the main issue, to the
>| public. Mr. Peterson said that on some points he and
j Mr. Enmore Jones were as opposite to each other as
S the poles, in opinion, but he agreed in the remarks
)| which had just been made; Spiritualists should not
?! fritter away their strength in small divisions. Mr.
s| Towns recommended the listeners to attend the Sunday
) | conference meetings at Goswell Hall in the morning,
?! at eleven o’clock, as well as the meetings in the
)! evening.
March 26, 1880.
156
THE SPIRITUALIST.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late Wm."Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor qf Chemistry at Biinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
. the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism..
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV s—^Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—^Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VIMesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator— .
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VTI:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not |
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s I
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of i
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do i
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible ot Mesmerism j
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele- |
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX s—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &o., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylio
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water j (
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—^Physiological, Therapeutical, Ac.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes- !
xnerism and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking j1
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
' CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested i,
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the \ (
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—^Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—^Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by i'
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c..
Induce Walking Clanwoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the i
Future.
CHAPTER XI»—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits i
of Scientific Caution—^Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student— ]'
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-— i i
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi- i j
ments With and Without Suggestion—Oases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments— i,
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen- i (
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised W ater—Egyptian ;1
Magic.
CHAPTER XIH s—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Oases—Eight out of I <
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep— i <
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep j,
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep— ; ^
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of j ■
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance— i /
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Oases— j /
Clairvoyance of Alexia—Other Oases. i)
CHAPTER XV s—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe- j S
tnomena—Apparitions—Predictions. i S
CHAPTER XVI s—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks i C
and Summary. i (
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 93, Musenm-etmt, London,
) | In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
/ i civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou-
)j sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out-
(\ lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail-
?! ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
(j The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
\ j Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
si investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
S j professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
) j true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
)i were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
) I presence of mediums without being touched,
n Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
(j Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
(: thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
ij house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
S| Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
) i professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
<| Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
Si forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
S | stranger to the family present.
Si The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean ‘‘ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I .speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message P ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances because
no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week: angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
March 26, 1880,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
Cloth, small 8vo, price 8s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, Ho. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pncisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
t^ALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
•L in Spiritualism, by Christian Reimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. doth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of If ill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close critioism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Seoiew.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
Researches in the pheno¬
mena OF SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S, The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st, W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, S3,
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for l^d; or six copies post free for 6d. 
R| APHAEL’S PROPHETIC-MES-
senoer AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
“ Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London; S. E. Catty, 12. Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIA¬
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great RusseU-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, daily. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the oity, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, ” 8. C.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &o., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.C,
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Postfree.
“ RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of ‘‘M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the tranee-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The lAfe cf Swedenborg,
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You wno Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. SoL, Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
‘‘ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint/’ By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesf alien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. -- By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette MakdougaB
Gregory.
XLIv.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism ■
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. fid.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.’’
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Pabt I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII,
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Paut II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—Xfl.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXII1.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kinadom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXTX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes
1 psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyms, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. fid. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing Breach between
Modern Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modern Thought verses Modem Facts
Chapter HI:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V:—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIH :—Popular Errors and Objeotions
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modem Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Alim,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With, no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not tone. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up iu private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con¬
sequently irreligious age.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 26, 1880.
Accidental Indigestion
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
ENO S FRUIT SALT
Erery Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a bottle of
ENO’S ERUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health¬
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression,'.Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Da. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
Stimulants & insufficient
AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequentiy DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
END’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de la Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. He is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
in the house.”—M. Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.— “Aftersuf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try- '
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
Success in life.”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAVTION.—Examine each bottle and tee the capsule it
marked "ENO’S FEUIT SALT." Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2t. 9d. and 4«. fid.
Prepared only "by J. C. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcham, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning:
Pott, Graphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals,
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence;
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song ol
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Der¬
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12 Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel - beivegung.—18. “Poor
Old Joe! ”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
OW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
OW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BANK—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30. The Con¬
verted Carman.
March, 1880. J [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW
A Monthly Magazine.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says;—“Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. ... The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. ... The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. These poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price fid.; post free 7§d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
Thbsb Essays won the Fiest and Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O.
CONTENTS.
The present position and future needs of Spiritualism
in England ; M.A. (Oxonj—Kiddle’s Spiritual Com¬
munications—Exposures of Spiritualism; Dr. Nicholls
—Two Views of Spiritualism; M.A. (Oxon)—A Needed
Lesson; Georgina Houghton—^Extracts from a Spirit¬
ualist’s diary ; A. M. H. Watts—The last Words of
James Nayler, the Quaker Martyr, 1660—Notes and
Gleanings—Lessons in a School of Life—Victorien
Sardon, the French Dramatist—The Message of Spirit-
nalism to the Criminal—Higher Aspects of Spiritual¬
ism—Poetry—A Psalm of the March Winds; J. T.
Markley.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW: Hay Nisbet & Co., 52, Ropework-lane
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
S3, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be givenhy the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We
will only say that his descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which ms
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
CONTENTS.
A Revival of Mesmerism    145
A Voice fromLoadicea.....     145
Correspondence:—Eternal Punishment    149
Three Questions    150
A New Trance Medium)  150
Goswell Hall Sunday Meetings 150
Our National Vice    150
Community of Sensation at a Seance...  150
A Spiritualistic Soiree        151
Cunous Psychological Experiences     151
A Death Warning       151
A Venomous Spider..       152
A Death-bed Apparition    152
A Yorkshire Ghost Story     154
Dr. Slade in the Rocky Mountains'.    155
PoetryLove’s Four Seasons        155
Paragraphs :—A Haunted Man      151
Sunday Services  155
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing WorKs, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.O., and published by E. W.
Ai lfn, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
