Registered as a Newspaper.
©tat ItepDtr mmrtetr toit| Spntualtsm m feat gritam.
No. 372. (VoL. XV.—No. 15.) LONDON : FRIDA.Y, OCTOBER 10, 1879. Published Weekly ; Price Twopence.
Just Published.
AN ILLUSTRATED BROADSIDE ENTITLED
THE WOOERS OE.LAMPORT, ETC.,
By SIR CHARLES ISHAM, Bart.
Price Three Halfpence, Post Free; or Ten for One Shilling.
2,000 Copies sold in two days.
PROFITS FOR ORPHANAGE.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Ijamport Hall, Northampton.
THE THE0S0PHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. BB A V AT SKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, <£1 Per Annum, Poet Free.
Post Office Orders to “ The Proprietor's of * The Theosophist,' ” at the above address.
Now Ready.
The THIRD EDITION of Vol. I. of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
MECIAnSI OF IAF.
Price 10b. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Vol. II., completing the work, and treating of “ The Mechanism in Action/
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of aU Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
JAIES IALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 10, 1879,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, TV.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its. branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KAKDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. Gd. Trubner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents —The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : its Place and Function
—Religion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism—The Philosophy of Inspiration and
Revelation—Christianity : its Divine and Human Elements.
London: Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
'The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
DR. NICHOLS’ FOOD OF HEALTH.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &c.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &c.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from S o’clock for reception of
friends.
N.B.—Mr. Williams’s temporary address during
alterations in the above premises is 13, Milman-street,
W.O. (corner of new Ormond-street).
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At home every day except Sunday),
Will lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
1G4, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Chnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, ail pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written in- tractions,
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
F. 0. MATTHEWS,
CLAIRVOYANT, TRANCE, TEST AND
HEALING MEDIUM,
35, CAVENDISH TERRACE, WEST HILL PARK
HALIFAX, YORKSHIRE.
MR. A. H. FIRMAN
(Medium of Count de Bullet)
Will hold his
HOME CIRCLE
Every Tuesday and Friday Evening at Half-past Eight
o’clock, at his Rooms,
26, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, LONDON.
Mr. Firman will be at home every day, except Sun¬
day, from 12 till 5, to make arrangements for Private
Sittings. 
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o'clock. 173
Rue St. Honore, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely hound in half-calf 8s. Cd.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. Cd., post free.
The SpirUualut Newspaper Branch Office, S3, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Notice of removal to si,
NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER has arranged for stances on Tuesday and
Friday afternoons, at four o’clock precisely. At home
for private sittings and mesmeric treatment; de¬
velopment for clairvoyance and other forms of
mediumship, from one to five o'clock daily; and eight
to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
i^HiARACTERS FAITHFULLY
\_y DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. Gd.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for 1 jd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
$. xif to to SDtoD$ arrd 3StoD$ #1 Spdt|ittt&U$m,
No. 372.—Votuj»tE fifteen; Number fifteen,
Xj O NI3 01ST , FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10th, 1879.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
108. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HAEEISON.
33, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Russia. Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Right Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.
C. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Galder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. O. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.-
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H.M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., O.E., F.R.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J.M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq. •
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
O. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Set., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. O.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5. Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Rome; British Reading Rooms, 2G7, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Rue Florimont. Liege ; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Russell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of TAght Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
rpHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who 'is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
naccurato results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
FUTURE RESEARCH IN SPIRITUALISM.
All strong mediums are mesmeric sensitives, and
probably the future line of investigation likely to be
most fruitful in the study of spiritual phenomena
will be the trying of experiments with mesmeric
sensitives in the attempt to produce manifestations
ourselves through their instrumentality. Spirits out
of the body are generally supposed to act upon
mediums by mesmeric influence, and it may be
worth while for spirits in the body to try to do the
same thing. An idea has been promulgated that
sensitives by cultivating their spiritual powers may
possibly be able to produce some of the manifesta¬
tions themselves; but attempts in that direction do
not appear to have been particularly successful, per¬
haps because one of the ordinary conditions under
which manifestations occur is broken—namely, that
the medium in trying to produce phenomena by his
own will-power is in an intensely positive state of
mind, whereas when he is at seances the more nega¬
tive his mental state the better is it for the results.
VISIONS *
In the Life of the late Rev. John Flavel, the follow¬
ing is stated :—“ The persecution against the Nom
conformists being renewed, Mr. Flavel found it unsafe
to remain at Dartmouth ; and, therefore, resolved to
go to London, where he hoped to be in less danger,
and to have more liberty to exercise his function.
The night before he embarked for that end, he had
the following premonition by a dream:—He thought
that he was on board the ship, and that a storm
arose, which exceedingly terrified the passengers.
During their consternation, there sat, waiting at the
table, a person of admirable sagacity and gravity,
who had a child in a cradle by him that was very
forward; he thought he saw the father take up a
little whip, and give the child a lash, saying,
‘ Child, be quiet; I will discipline, but not hurt
thee/ Upon this Mr. Flavel awoke ; and, musing
on his dream, he concluded that he should meet with
some trouble on his passage. His friends, being at
dinner with him, assured him of a pleasant passage,
because the wind and weather were so fair. Mr.
Flavel replied that he was not of their mind, but
expected much trouble, because of his dream; adding,
that when he had such representations made to him
in his sleep, they seldom or never failed. Accordingly,
when they were advanced within five leagues of Port¬
land in their voyage, they were overtaken by a
dreadful tempest—insomuch that, betwixt one and
two in the morning, the master and seamen con¬
cluded that unless God changed the wind there was
no hope of life; that it was impossible for them to
* From Mrs. Blair’s Dreams and Dreamings. London; G. Groombridgo
170
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Oct. 10, 1879.
weather Portland, so that they must, of necessity, be
wrecked on the rocks or on the shore. Upon this
Mr. Flavel called all the hands that could be spared
into the cabin to prayer; but the violence of the
tempest was such, that they could not prevent them¬
selves from being thrown from the one side unto the
other, as the ship was tossed; and not only so, but
mighty seas broke upon them, as if they would drown
them in the very cabin. Mr. Flavel, in this danger,
took hold of the two pillars of the cabin bed, and,
calling upon God, begged mercy for himself and the
rest in the ship. Among other arguments in prayer,
he made use of this—that if he and his company
perished in that storm, the name of God would be
blasphemed ; the enemies of religion would say that
though he escaped their hands on shore, yet divine
vengeance had overtaken him at sea. In the midst
of prayer, faith and hope were raised, insomuch that
he expected a gracious answer ; so that, committing
himself and his company to the mercy of God, he
concluded the duty. Ho sooner was prayer ended,
but one came down from the deck, crying, f Deliver¬
ance ! deliverance ! God is a God hearing prayer! In a
moment the wind is come fair west!’ And so, sailing
before it, they were brought safely to London.”
In reading this remarkable account, we must con¬
clude that the dream was sent to prepare his mind
for the hour of trial, to sustain his hope, and excite
him to fervent prayer; and the result was the glory
of God whom he served.
The same Mr. Flavel had a remarkable premo¬
nition, by a dream, of the deaths of his father and
mother, in the time of the great contagion in 1665.
Many letters he sent to them, and many hearty
prayers to Heaven for them ; but, about a fortnight
before they were infected, he fell, about break of day,
into this dream : That he was in a great inn, full of
company, and being very desirous to find a private
room, where he might seek God for his parents’ life,
he went from room to room, but found company in
them all. At last, casting his eye into a little
chamber, which was empty, he went into it, locked
the door, and kneeled down by the outside of the
bed, fixing his eye upon the plastered wall within-
side the bed; and, while he was vehemently
begging of God the life of his parents, there ap¬
peared, upon the plastered wall before him, the
sun and moon shining in their full strength. The
sight at first amazed and discomposed him so far
that he could not continue his prayer, but kept his
eye fixed upon the body of the sun: at last a small
line or ring of black circled the sun, which, in¬
creasing sensibly, eclipsed, in a little time, the whole
body of it, and turned it into a blackish colour :
which done, the figure of the sun was immediately
changed into a perfect death’s head, and, after a
little while, vanished quite away. The moon still
continued shining as before; but, while he intently
beheld it, it also darkened in like manner, and
turned into another death’s head, and vanished. This
made a great impression upon Mr. Flavel’s mind ;
only he was satisfied the dream was of an extra¬
ordinary nature. Joseph’s dreams came to his
thoughts with the like emblems, and their inter¬
pretations ; and he was satisfied that by it God was
preparing him for parting with his dear relatives.
)j Their deaths occurred in the same order as he had
11 dreamed; his father that day fortnight, and his
mother a month after. He closed the relation with
{i these words, “ I know there is much vanity in dreams ;
and yet I am fully satisfied that some are weighty,
ij significant, and declarative of the purposes of God.”
} j Of this, the following are peculiar illustrations :—
Dr. Doddridge’s first child was early taken from
(| him by death, but not till she was so much entwined
>! with his affections, as fco render the stroke exceed-
(j ingly painful to him. He had her picture in his
) i study, and respecting it, thus wrote:—“ A remark-
(| able accident happened the other day. Mary Wills
)| told me that she was afraid I was out of the way
(| of my duty in something about a child’s picture
)j discovered to her about two months ago. She then
(| thought she said to me, ‘The grave is a forgetful
)| place: these things are pleasant, but bury them out
(j of sight/ What amazing correspondence ! For here
)j was a secret of my life, utterly unknown to her,
\ | relating to the image of my dear Betsy. I look upon
)| this in two united views : the one as a rebuke of
\ I Providence for the too great tenderness with which I
?j had viewed and adored that image ; the other as a
confirmation of the truth of some strange stories which
( j I have heard from that good woman.”
The reader will justly draw the inference, from
(j the above allusion, that Dr. Doddridge accorded
> with other distinguished men of that period in the
11 belief of supernatural interferences. The follow-
ing dream is another proof, related by the late
[| B-ev. Samuel Clark, of Birmingham :—“Dr. Dod-
I dridge and my father, Dr. Clark, had been one evening
(j conversing upon the nature of the separate state,
1 and of the probability that the scenes on which the
|| soul would enter, upon leaving the body, would bear
1 some resemblance to those with which it had been
| conversant while on earth; so that it might, by
j degrees, be prepared for the sublime happiness of the
I heavenly world. This, and other conversations of the
I same kind, were the immediate occasion of the
| following dream:—Dr. Doddridge imagined himself
)j dangerously ill, at a friend’s house in London, and
(j that, after lying in that state for some time, his soul
| left the body, and took its flight in some kind of fine
i vehicle, which, though very different from the body
it had just quitted, was still material. He pursued
\| his course until he was at some distance from the
)| city, when, turning back, and reviewing the town, he
could not forbear saying to himself, ‘ How trifling and
(j vain do the affairs which the inhabitants of this place
| are so eagerly employed in appear to me, a separate
|| spirit! ’ At length, as he was continuing his progress,
i although without any certain direction, yet easy and
[I happy in the thought of the universal providence of
)! God, which extends alike to all states and to all
Ji worlds, he was met by one who told him that he
)| was sent to conduct him to the place appointed for
<j him ; from which he concluded that it could be no
>! other than an angel. They went on together till they
II came in sight of a spacious building, which had the
>| air of a palace, upon which he inquired of his guide
(I what it was, and was told that it was the place
)| appointed for him at present. The doctor then
observed that when upon the earth he had read
)i that ‘ Eye had not seen, nor ear heard, nor hath it
Oct. 10, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
entered into the heart of man to conceive what great |) |
things God had laid up for those who love Him| (I
whereas he could easily conceive an idea of such a m
building as that before him, though inferior in point i (
of elegance. The answer his guide made was such i>j
as, from th e conversation he had had with his frien d the j < |
evening before, might easily suggest itself. It was j>j
that some of the first scenes that presented them- j(
selves to his view would bear a resemblance to those |)|
he had been accustomed to upon the earth, that his j (!
mind might be gradually prepared the more easily j)
to behold the unknown glories which would be Kj
presented to view hereafter. By this time they were j) j
come up to the palace, and his guide led him through ! \ j
a saloon into an inner apartment, where the first thing )
he observed was a golden cup, placed upon a table; j (j
on this cup was embossed the figure of a vine, bearing j > i
grapes. He asked his guide the meaning of it, who j(|
told him that it was the cup out of which the Saviour )
drank new wine with His disciples in His kingdom, ju
and that the carved figures signified the union be- j)j
twixt Christ and His people; implying that as the j\j
grapes derive all their beauty and sweetness from m
the vine, so the saints, even in a state of glory, are Hi
indebted for their virtue and happiness to their union j) j
with their immortal Head, in whom they are all n
complete. While they were thus conversing, he j/j
thought that he heard a gentle tap at the door, and i S j
was informed by his guide that it was the signal of
his Lord’s approach, and intended to prepare him for j j j
the interview. Accordingly, in a short time he j)j
thought that he beheld his Saviour enter, upon which j \ j
he cast himself down at His feet, when He graciously j) j
raised him up, and, with a look of inexpressible com- | j> j
placency, assured him of His favour and kind accept- j (j
ance of his faithful services; and as a token of j j j
peculiar regard, and of the intimate friendship with m
which He intended to honour him, He took up the cup, |) j
and, after drinking of it Himself, gave it into his j(i
hands, which the doctor thought he declined, as >
too great a favour and honour; but his Lord re- K
plied, as He did to Peter with regard to washing |jj
His feet, ‘If thou drink not with Me, thou hast no j(j
part with Me.’ This scene, he said, filled him jj!
with such a transport of gratitude, love, joy, and m
admiration, that he was ready to sink under it. His m
Master seemed sensible of it, and told him that He in
should leave him at the present, but that ere long He >
would repeat His visit; in the meantime he might n
reflect upon the past, and contemplate the objects |>
around him. As soon as his Lord had retired, and K
his mind become a little composed, he observed that i)j
the room was hung around with pictures ; and, upon Kj
examining them, he discovered, to his great surprise, j)j
that they represented the history of his own life, and j(j
all the remarkable scenes he had passed through : m
the many temptations and trials he had been exposed jn
to, the signal instances of the Divine goodness to him, j jj
with different periods of his life, were, by this means, j(j
all at once presented to his view, and excited the jj|
strongest emotions of gratitude and love—especially m
when he considered that he was then beyond the jj|
reach of future distress, and that all the purposes of j (j
the Divine love and mercy were fulfilled towards jjl
him. The ecstasy of joy and thankfulness into j(j
which these ideas threw him were so great that he 1/j
awoke. For some considerable time, however, after
he arose, the impression continued so strong and
lively, that tears of joy flowed down his cheeks ; and
he said that he never remembered, on any occasion,
to have felt sentiments of devotion, love, and grati¬
tude, equally impressed upon his mind.”
OBIGINAL EESEABCH IN SPIRITUALISM.
A fortnight ago the completion of the new self-
recording apparatus for weighing mediums during
manifestations was recorded in these pages. Since
then it has been experimentally used with successful
results, and next week the details will be published in
The Spiritualist, With, engravings. The next number
of this journal will, therefore, contain matter of
exceptional interest to Spiritualists all the world
over. A large number of extra copies of the Spirit¬
ualist will be printed next week, to meet the expected
demand.
A MATERIALISATION SEANCE.
Sir,—Having given so many reports of seances in connection
with the name of Firman, I had resolved to leave it to others to
corroborate or modify my views on the powers of this wonderful
medium. Yesterday, however, I witnessed such a stupendous
materialisation that I feel compelled once more to take up the
pen on behalf of the results we may anticipate, if this demon¬
stration be not one of those favours which are rarely granted.
Simply on my calling on Mr. Alfred Firman, he suggested a
“little sitting to ourselves,” and, knowing by experience that
something is on the road if the medium starts the idea, I gladly
overlooked the otherwise most unfavourable conditions, namely,
half-past three in the afternoon, and no preparations as yet for
perfect darkness during day seances. Transparent red curtains
covered the windows of the sitting-room. The adjoining bed¬
room, with still less provision for darkness, served as a cabinet,
and I took my seat at the piano. A cousin of the medium, who,
if spirits indeed draw from sitters, had often previously aided in
the graceful part of “ shaping,” was also present. Very soon
the sympathetic direct voice of the “little Indian” announced a
visitor, and “ Bertie ” came. She appeared to be taller than
through Mrs. Firman, but I recognised her at once, but this time
felt minus my usual composure, and missed the examina¬
tion of the bent-out second toe, so conspicuous in the
known cast, and which “ suspicious ” abnormality once
drew forth an absurd remark of doubt from one of the
most renowned scientific Spiritualists. The appearance, except
the rather darkish hands, was beautiful and lovely in the
extreme, and if painted, with the picturesque effect of light
thrown on it from both sides plentifully intruding, would have
been a beau ideal. She retired, to come forward with the
medium. Formerly I took these tests as a compliment to my
obstinate, sceptical method of investigation, but here I felt the
solemn ceremony of her commending him to my regard and
affection. After she had retired, John King’s manly voice con¬
firmed this my view. Altogether, the event was impressive; and
that remarkable spirit “ Glaucus ” will forgive me if I did not
mention his also most beautiful appearance a few evenings before.
Of course, such results, silencing sceptical cavillings, can only be
expected in perfectly harmonious circles.
London, October 6th, 1879. CHRISTIAN BeIMERS.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
R. M. W.—At the time, Mr. Hull sent us from America copies
of his paper containing the articles, and they are still in our
office.
Mr. W. Eglinton has been giving seances in Stockholm,
awakening much interest there in Spiritualism. He is now on
his way to Bohemia.
“Passed Away.”—October 3rd, at 25, Lee Terrace, Black*
heath, Maurice Langley (eldest son of R. M. Theobald, M.A.,
M.R.C.S.), of rapid consumption, in his 17th year.
172
THE SPIRITUALIST. Oct. 10. 1879.
THE INFLUENCE OF MESMERISM.
(From “ The Psychological Review.”)
One of the most perceptible modes of action of
the vital force, is directly on the nerves of the body.
Of this I will give two instances. One, of the
restoration of power to the flexor muscles of the feet,
or, more properly, of the nerves by which those
muscles are stimulated. The other, on the sentient
nerves and tissues near the surface. In the first case
the patient was an infant ten weeks old, who had
from birth been unable to keep the feet in the natural
position, at right angles to the legs. The mother
brought it to me that I might show her how to bind
a splint on the legs, as she had been told to do by an
eminent surgeon. While I was considering the pos¬
sibility of bandaging such very small limbs, it
occurred to me that they might be strengthened by
mesmerism, and I made a few passes to show the
mother what to do when the bandages were off. To
my surprise the ankle joints bent, and the little
feet began to rise, after about six passes; and
after a few—^perhaps twenty in all—were in their
natural position. They were stiff at first, but the
power in the muscle continued when the stiffness
disappeared, and the cure, which had been completed
in about five minutes, was. permanent. The child
ran alone at ten months. The other case, illustrating
action on the sentient nerves and capillary vessels
under the skin, as well as of the nerves of movement,
was that of a strong, hearty fisherman at a sea-side
place. This man had gone out with two or three
people in a rowing-boat, when it was observed that
he held an oar with one hand only, and did not seem
to have much power to pull it. He had a boy with
him for the other oar. He had been struck by light¬
ning while dredging for oysters, and his right arm
was thus paralysed. He called on me in the evening
and showed me the arm and hand. The arm was
nearly powerless, and the fore-part quite white.
Three fingers of the hand were in the same state, but
he could bend the thumb a very little. He sat down
in his fisherman’s shirt, with his back against the
wall, and after about twenty passes without contact
from the head down the arm, the latter began to
regain its colour. When the man aroused—for he
dozed a little—he found he could move his fingers,
and that sensation had returned to them. This first
healing process was made on a Thursday. On the
Friday and Sunday evenings it was repeated, to
secure the cure, and on the Monday he rowed several
miles in the boatrace, and came in first.
Almost all the patients I have mentioned saw light
from the mesmeriser’s hands. In one case, a poor
little girl, much deformed, and who was mesmerised
while lying on her face, begged that the passes might
stop, as f the lightning was all over her, and she was
always frightened at lightning.”
Any of these experiments could be repeated at any
time. It only needs for their success a healthy, kind¬
feeling mesmeriser, with a good brain (this last is
indispensable), and a patient who, either from natural
constitution or from disease, is receptive of the
influence. Those patients of a hospital who are
suffering from scrofulous diseases, such as lumbar or
psoas abscess or glandular swellings, will, on the
whole, be found most sensitive, and the treatment of
1| them will often be quite successful. As these cases
i are for the most part held to be incurable, experiments
| upon them could do no harm, and would certainly
| do more or less good. *
As to the conditions which determine the different
\j degrees and kinds of healing, besides a number of
n experiments made by myself, I had an opportunity
M of seeing a great deal of mesmeric treatment during
< i the two years in which I was a visitor of the Mesmeric
)l Infirmary, founded by Dr. Elliotson. Each mes-
<| meriser—there were generally three or four, if not
) | more, employed at a time—had his particular class
p of cases in which his : success was distinctly marked,
vj The secretary, Mr. Capern, who had been an old
(j farmer, and looked the impersonation of health,
yj made an almost miraculous number of cures of
)| rheumatism and rheumatic gout. He never touched
(j a patient so afflicted without given almost immediate
/j relief; and I saw a woman, who for five years had
j I not been able to raise her hand to her head, or to
(| touch her shoes, tie on her bonnet and fasten up her
m bootlace after about half-an-hour’s treatment. But
d Mr. Capern had not equal power over all diseases,
)j though he gave relief in many. A man named
(j Fisher had special influence over tumours, and even
11 cancer in an early stage. I have seen many tumours
|| dispersed by this man in a comparatively short time.
| Both the men I have named had high, well-developed
benevolence, the other parts of the head good, and the
temperament active. One man, whose head was flat and
| poor, but who was industrious, and like a machine in
I his movements, worked at the infirmary for six
hours a-day for many months, and not only never
cured a patient, but never made his influence felt.
At least half, if not more, of the cures of local diseases
were completed without the production of sleep. The
patients were all persons who had tried the regular
remedies, and who! asked for mesmerism as a last
1] resource. No phenomenal experiments were allowed
H to be practised by the operators.
(i There have been many conjectures as to the
Treason of the specialities of mesmerisers. Why
should one have more power over muscular, another
over nervous ailments—one over blindness, another
over lung-disease ? The full explanation of this pro¬
bably lies very deep in our systems and structures,
| but a few observations have been made which may
| serve as rough guideposts. It has been found that
pain, taken by the mesmeriser from the patient,
affects the mesmeriser himself for a short time.
Neuralgia, headache, or toothache, of which the suf¬
ferer has been relieved, will be felt in the same spot
| by the healer. Moreover, some practitioners have
| found themselves weakened in that part of their
| bodies to which they had been communicating health
and strength in the patients; and a mesmeriser whose
i eyes are weak, will lose his own sight more readily by
| practising on the eyes than on any other organ.
There are, doubtless, an infinite number of un-
| suspected conditions which determine the direction
| of each person s vital health current upon another.
1 * If I were to recount and describe all the cases of rapid cure which I have
personally witnessed, it would extend this article to a great length, and I could
hardly expect my unsupported testimony to be believed. But for much iufor-
j mation on this subject I refer the reader to all the numbers of the Zoitt, a
j quarterly publication edited in part by Dr. Elliotson, and to a work entitled
I Animal Magnetism, and Magnetic Lucid Somnambulism, <£c<, by Edwin Lee, M.E.,
1 &c. (London: Longmans, Green and Co., 1866), and to many other works.
173
Oct. 10, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST.
It would seem that from each part of the body j)j
proceeds the force adapted to the corresponding part m
in the patient. If this be so, and as it is certain j/j
that every part of the system is coherent with, and jsj
corresponds to, the centre or life-sources in brain and m
heart, further observation will enable us to determine j (j
readily what amount and kind of power is possessed j)j
by each person, even before any experiment has been isj
tried. From this consideration of the simple action j)|
of the Jife-force in healing, we ascend to the modes jsj
of its action and its effect in producing community ill
of sensation, clairvoyance, and spiritual vision. The \l\
explanations given by persons in a lucid state are j)j
very interesting, but a knowledge of the functions of fif
the brain and nervous system is required to make in
them thoroughly clear, and to show that they are in n|
harmony with ascertained physiological science. |<|
Ohelsea. S. E. De MORGAN. ]>|
SHAKESPEARE. jjj
BY THE REV. W. R. TOMLINSON. j<j
I think Judge Holmes, who, perhaps somewhat In
boldly in this year 1879, sets his opinion against the j>j
almost universal consent of nearly three hundred jn
years with respect to the authorship of Shakespeare’s j>j
plays, should remember that by such an assumption jn
he dictates from a glass house, and should be more j>j
than usually careful, on that account, against using j(!
ugly epithets towards one who differs from him, lest j)|
the strong terms used should recoil upon himself; or |\|
that, at least, we should both be found in the dilemma j)j
of the politicians in the earlier part of the last cen- m
tury, who perplexedly though logically ejaculated— |)j
God bless the King. God bless the faith’s defender. j) j
God bless us all; and down with the Pretender! i) j
Which the Pretender is, and which the King— jn
God bless my soul—that’s quite another thing. Kj
While to charge me with using the word “ incompati- m
bility,” as shown by his inverted commas—a word m
which is not to be found throughout my letter to m
which he alludes—cannot certainly compromise'my- Kj
self. Nevertheless, it is to me very evident that jjj
in ascribing Shakespeare’s plays to Bacon incompati- j (j
bility is surely to be found. Let me give an instance j j j
of this in the play of Henry V. If Bacon was any- In
thing, he was a man who had obtained his know- jjj
ledge by study; and though, like Mr. Atkinson in j(
his letters to The Spiritualist of June 20th, he jjj
(Bacon) might not “deny the possibility of some Kj
source of inspiration that might be equal to the pro- jjj
duction of the plays of Shakespeare,” yet he would J<
probably, like Mr. Atkinson, also “ consider the great jj
improbability of the thing.” Spiritualists should jvj
remember that this is the gist of the whole question j
before us, whether inspiration is or is “ not an impro- j(|
bable thing?” jjj
And now let us take a note of the fact that Shake- j\j
speare’s Henry V., for instance, is an historical play, jjj
and its writer would necessarily be, on that account, !(
put upon his mettle to maintain all due regard to >
truth and consistency in his treatment of it; and the j(i
style and method would partake of the idiosyncrasy /]
of the writer. Especially would he be likely to let ](
it be seen, with such a character as that king j)
displayed, whether he, the writer of the play, was a “
believer in inspiration, like Shakespeare, or one who,
like Mr. Atkinson, and probably Bacon, might “ con¬
sider the great improbability of the thing.” These
being the circumstances, would Bacon be likely to
have said, when alluding to Henry V., “ Never was
such a sudden scholar made ?” or speak of “the king’s'
body” as “enveloping and containing celestial
spirits ? or “ wonders how his grace should glean ”
the above, and many other “ sudden ” intellectual
gifts of the highest order, when there was “ never
noted in him any study ?” or account for the extra¬
ordinary phenomenon of this sudden amalgamation
of talent there alleged, by the fact that “ his con¬
templation, under the veil of wildness, grew, like the
summer grass, fastest by night?” Why, many
Spiritualists even, of the present day, would laugh
in any man’s face, most of all in Bacon’s, if he should
come as a ghost and make such extraordinary asseve¬
rations as the above. In the case of the medium,
Shakespeare, such words would have been natural
enough.
Still, since Judge Holmes alleges positively that
these plays were written by Bacon, in his early days,
we must believe that the judge does not make so
grave an assertion unadvisedly; and of course any
proofs that he can bring in that direction must be
necessarily deeply interesting, not to say incontro¬
vertible. But are these proofs forthcoming ? that is
the question. The problem is quite exciting.
Perhaps Mr. Atkinson will tell us something in the
above direction.
As regards, however, the assertion of Mr. Atkinson
that Ben Jonson was “ in the secret ” of the plays
having been written by Bacon, I think we have
evidence from Jonson himself which fully makes out
that such was not the case. I think I can prove my
words, but forbear saying more in the present article,
space being so valuable.
MR. POWELL’S MEDIUMSHIP.
A correspondent at Lake Pleasant, writing under
date of August 25th, 1879, to the Boston Daily
Journal (a paper opposed to Spiritualism), remarks,
after describing the writing by the index finger, “ But
the strangest of all followed. Taking the hand of a
young lady who wore a glove, and without touching
the slate, a message was written by the gloved finger.”
(What is meant is that the gloved finger was not so
used by the medium as to touch the slate). “ The
slates were washed in water, and were not touched
by any one except the committee from the spectators,
who are known not to be confederates, as your cor¬
respondent was one of them. Mr. Powell then made
a flower appear on the under side of a slate without
touching it, by simply drawing his finger over the
slate in the air.” This last is the same phenomenon
produced in the presence of seven witnesses at Mr.
Sargent’s house. During the last fortnight it has
been several times manifested at Mr. Powell’s stances
though it may not always be expected. It is only
when a particular ‘control’ gets possession of him,
and places him in a state of trance, that the mani¬
festation is likely to occur. A few days ago, while
he wrote with the index finger of a lady on the upper
surface of a slate, two lines were at the same time
written on the under side.”
174 THE SPIRITUALIST. Oct. 10. 1879.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL EE VIEW.
For some time past Mr. H. Nisbet, of Glasgow,
has been bringing out The Pyschological Review
monthly instead of quarterly, and it usually contains
a number of well-written articles. Some lengthy
extracts from recent numbers of it are printed in
this issue of The Spiritualist. The Psychological
Review is a quiet and thoughtful periodical, well
got up.
APPARITIONS.
(To the Editor of “ The Banner of Light.”)
The appearance of disembodied spirits to their
friends at the moment of physical death is a pheno¬
menon so well attested, as occurring in all ages of the
world, that it is a fact outside of the domain of what
is called “ Modern Spiritualism.” It is one of those
things which many unspiritual people are obliged to
admit, but for which they cannot account, and which
they dismiss with the remark that such things are
“very mysterious.”
I am happy to be able to relate to your numerous
readers one of these occurrences which took place in
a family of my acquaintance, and was given to me
personally by a very near relative of the two brothers
mentioned in the recital. I will call them Harry and
Charley S . Harry was rather a fast young man,
though not dissipated; at any rate he was entirely un¬
spiritual, and an utter disbeliever in all so-called
“ supernatural ” phenomena. He especially ridiculed
all ghostly apparitions. Charley had started for Cali¬
fornia with two or three other young men, and Harry
was in business in Chicago. He had acquired the
questionable habit of reading in bed, always locking
his door before he lay down; but one night the door
opened, some one entered, and his favourite brother
Charley stood before, him. “Why, Charley,” he
exclaimed, “what are you doing here? I thought
you were almost in California by this time.” So
saying he sprang out of bed and began dressing
as expeditiously as possible. “Sit down, Charley,”
exclaimed Harry, “and make yourself at home.”
“I cannot stay,” said the visitor, in solemn tones.
“What!” cried Harry, “why, Charley, what do
you mean ?” Harry continued dressing rapidly,
turned aside to get his coat, and when he turned
round again his visitor was gone !
Hastening to the door to follow him he found it
locked. He rubbed his eyes, and wondered if he had
lost his senses. Feeling the need of human com¬
panionship, he went over to an hotel, with the landlord
of which he was very intimate. His friend had
retired, but he roused him and asked him to get up, as
he wanted to see him. “ What ails you, Harry ?” in¬
quired the landlord, “and what makes you look so
strange ? Have you seen a ghost V' This made Harry
shudder, but he managed to reply, “Oh, nothing ails me:
I just wanted you to get up and talk to me.” “ That’s
a pretty joke,” said the landlord; “I think you
might let a fellow alone at night, and not wake him
out of his sleep.” They talked together for awhile,
and then Harry returned to his room, but it was
some time before he could sleep. The next morning
he again saw his friend the landlord, who accosted
him with these words: “What in the world ailed you
last night, Harry ? Why did you wake me up to talk
to you?” “Oh, I don’t know,” said Harry, “I
|u just felt like it; but tell me, did you observe any-
| I thing out of the way with me ? did I act like myself ? ’ ’
!y “Oh, yes,” replied the landlord, “but you looked
j/j pale, and seemed nervous; and I wonder what’s the
j(| matter with you, anyhow.”
A day or two afterwards a telegram was received
fu by Harry, announcing the fact that his brother,
|| Charley S., had been killed while crossing the plains—
| whether by Indians, or by some one of his own party,
j could not be ascertained—but the murder took place
on the very night of his sudden appearance to his
| brother ; whether at the same hour could not be told,
as his murdered body was not found until the morning.
This circumstance I also received from a member of
I the family in which it occurred. Little Helen R. lay
W very sick. Her mother sat beside her bed, in close
ly attendance on her darling. Suddenly an old dilapi-
m dated clock, which had not run for years, was heard
IX to strike three times. A little brother came running
m in, exclaiming, “Oh, mamma, the clock struck, it
j(j did! The clock struck three times!” “Johnny,”
j)j said the mother, “didn’t you climb up on the table
Kj and meddle with that clock ?” “No, mamma,” said
HI the boy, “ if I had made it strike I wouldn’t have run
Kj in to tell you. It struck itself.” It was evident to
j)i the mother that the child was telling the truth, and she
Kj laid the omen to heart accordingly. Little Helen lived
j)j just three days longer, and was just three years old.
If you think these items are of sufficient interest
vl you can give them a corner in the Banner of Light. I
j\j am yours, for spiritual truth,
I i Mary Dana Shindler.
i) I No. 34, East 20tli Street, New York City.
j | A QUIBBLE BRUSHED AWAY.
i S i Sib,,—It is a trumpery matter in itself;. but as a question of
i j common sense, law, and logic, let me expose the statement that
!(! the British National Association of Spiritualists do not pay for
j (1 reports of the proceedings of the Council. The proposition was
j\i not that the report in question was an official report, but that it
j)j was paid for. Now how does the matter stand upon admitted
i) | facts ? The Association has contracted to make certain payments
Kj to a newspaper in consideration, inter alia, of the insertion
j ( of “ authorised reports, signed by the President.” It is said that
|)| this condition has been waived, or not insisted on, inconsequence
!) | of the satisfactory character of the non-official reports. In other
j(j words, these reports are accepted in substitution of those which
Kj the Association would have a right to require under the agree-
j)j ment, and as a fulfilment of the agreement. The object of the
j > I agreement is to secure approved reports—their official prepara-
l)i tion and signature are merely guarantees. If the newspaper
Kj were to discontinue its own report the Council would at once
| (I insist on supplying one under the terms of the contract. They
j j only do not do so now because they consider they have got their
j)! money’s worth. That money is therefore paid, not simply for the
i ? j advertisements, but also for the report. If it is the case that the
i\ journal in question could be depended on to supply fair reports
Kj without payment, why, then, so much of the consideration
j ); money as represents the value of such reports is just so much of
j) j the funds of the Association wasted in what is, in effect no doubt,
jyi a gratuity to a newspaper. They have not the less bought the
Kj right to a report, and have got one which they say satisfies them,
j) j By that admission (if fixed with it) they would be bound in any
j)j court in the country were they to attempt to resist payment on
ju the plea now set up. All this is as plain as that two and two
j (j make four. It may be “ venomous ” to say so, but it is certainly
Kj not “untruthful.”
j)j To prevent misconception, I wish to add that my intervention
j)j in the controversy is confined to the above point—whether the
j(j reports are paid for; and that I have no opinion to express as to
jsi the propriety of printing Mr. Eitz-Gerald’s observations at the
j>j Council meeting upon Mrs. Lowe, though certainly that lady was
j(j mistaken in supposing them to amount to an attack on her per¬
sonal character. C. C. Massey.
Oct. 10, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
175
SPIRITUALISM AND THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND.
BY A YOUNG- CLERGYMAN.
The clergy hitherto have ignored the rise and
progress of Spiritualism, or, if they have noticed
the subject at all, it has only been in denunciations,
without any previous inquiry as to the truth or
falsity of the alleged phenomena. The result has
been such as we might expect, viz., the attempt on
the part of Spiritualists to formulate a new creed,
whilst multitudes failing to find rest in this way have
gone over to the Church of Rome, whose clergy have
not kept aloof from the movement. And, indeed,
it requires no little moral courage for a clergyman
of the Reformed Church to avow himself a believer
in spiritualistic manifestations. Even the investiga¬
tion of the question is reprehended.
Nevertheless, a society has been formed at Cam¬
bridge for the purpose of investigating spiritualistic
phenomena. The members consist of young men,
some of whom have already taken high honours,
whilst others are of high promise. It is eminently
a religious society.
An old college friend, in whose piety and judg¬
ment I have every confidence, has just told
me (the day after his ordination as deacon) of a
stance held at a certain undergraduate’s rooms.
Mr. Williams was medium. My friend had hold
of his hand. About a dozen University men, all
unbelievers in Spiritualism, were present. Amongst
other things a huge table was dragged about the
room by an invisible agency, and finally turned right
over. A musical box, lent by Lord   , of Trinity,
locked by an alphabet lock, the secret of which none
present knew, was suspended in the air (the room
being darkened, but not completely), and made to
play a certain number of bars, according to request;
but the sound was as though the wires were pulled,
or plucked. Luminous streaks of light flashed in all
parts of the room, and, though all were still, there
was the noise of tramping and bustling about.
Such is the account, as related to me. The College
authorities, when these proceedings were noised
abroad afterwards, were very angry.
Now, I have never attended a stance myself,
neither shall I mention other circumstances which
induce me to believe both in mesmerism and Spirit¬
ualism ; but I remember that we are called upon to
believe in the resurrection of our Lord Himself on
the testimony of trustworthy eyewitnesses.
But why, I would ask the professed Spiritualist,
try to formulate a creed of your own ? . Granting, for
the moment, that these manifestations of yours are
real, and such as you hold them to be, where, but in
the Bible, have you a record of similar previous
manifestations ? Why, I might lead you from Moses
and all the prophets right on to the Book of Reve¬
lations, and point out in every separate writing both
the record and the fruits of a Divine Spiritualism !
Have you now any difficulties with regard to that
bugbear of Hume—the credibility of miracles ?
Does inspiration seem strange ? Are you at all likely
to fritter it away into “ poetic insight,” as some do ?
You believe now, surely, in demoniacal possession : also
in prophecy. In fact, it strikes me that a Spiritualist
ought logically to be more than “ half a Christian.”
For my part, an inclination to believe in Spirit-
| ualism has lent greater vividness to various parts of the
u New Testament. The circumstances of the old and
' new world no longer seem utterly unlike each other
| i in many respects. Simon Magus and the “ Pythoness
| possessed with the spirit of divination which brought
(I in much gain to her masters” rise before us with
>| greater reality. Not that I would assign the mani-
’ festations to the workings of the Evil One in all
>] cases. Nay, rather, they seem to be addressed to
| those Sadducees of the present day who “say there
) i is no resurrection, neither angel nor spirit;” in fact,
(| to all disbelievers in the supernatural.
And what is the distinctive creed of Spiritualists,
h if indeed there be one? Presumably that of the
>! Theosophic Society. Mr. Farquhar’s well-written
(| paper (September 2nd) is before me. He is the
) | exponent, it would appear, of some sort of Positivist
\! —Gnostic—Eclecticism. All is abstraction and gene-
) | rality. A philosophic calm, in itself admirable,
\| pervades the whole paper. He addresses a happy
family of Brahmins, Buddhists, and Christians, who
(i have been induced to sink their small differences.
Mr. Farquhar, I see, regards the Aryan know-
(j ledge of God as most advanced. This assertion. I
) | confess, surprised me. There is the deep, impracticable
s i Hindoo mysticism, it is true; and there is the
/j trenchant Grecian intellectual analysis of the soul,
(j But who shall say that either the Romans or our
) | own Gothic ancestors had a very exalted conception
\ | of the Deity ? Indeed, I thought it was confessed on
■ all hands that the Semitic race undoubtedly pos-
y sessed the highest knowledge in spiritual matters.
(| Indeed, what knowledge would Mr. Farquhar himself
j! have had if he had not read the Gospel of an unedu-
(j cated Galilean fisherman ? Mr. Farquhar simply
(i translates, in many cases, the words of the Gospel
| according to St. John into modem philosophic, or,
|| rather, theosophic phraseology. In fact, for his
) j exposition of the mystery of the Trinity to a learned
vi audience I am extremely indebted to him. And his
} \ comparison of the “ human Trinity in Unity ”
• with that “ highest life ” which “ has the most
(j complex unity” is highly suggestive. But he
| need not accuse what ought to be “popular
\ i theology” as holding an imperfect psychology. Body,
>| soul, and spirit are recognised in the Church
ft. Catechism. In our “duty towards God” we are
) I bidden to love Him with all our heart, with all our
(| mind (i.e., with the seat of the affections and intel-
> | lect which psychologists call the soul), with all our soul
(j (in psychological language the spirit), and all our
)| (physical) strength. Nor is this formula drawn up
(j without Scriptural warrant. “And Jesus said unto
)j him” (the lawyer), “Thou shalt love the Lord thy
(j God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with
/1 all thy mind? S. Matt. xxii. 37. Also in Deute-
\| ronomy vi. 5 I read, “And thou shalt love the Lord
/j thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul,
si and with all thy might” Lastly, I would cite one
) | more passage, which strangely enough met my eye
(j first as I opened my Bible haphazard in my search
)j for light on this subject. I will give it in full:—
j “ If there arise among you a prophet, or a dreamer
)| of dreams, and giyeth thee a sign ora wonder, and
y the sign or the wonder come to pass whereof he
M spake unto thee, saying, ‘Let us go after other gods,
176
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 10, 1879.
which thou hast not known, and let us serve them
thou shalt not hearken unto the words of that
prophet, or that dreamer of dreams : for the Lord
your God proveth you, to know whether ye love the
Lord your God with all your heart and with all your
soul” Deut. xiii. 1—4. In the following verses
directions are given that that prophet or that dreamer
of dreams should be put to death.
Here I leave the question. But before I close my
letter I would beg Mr. Farquhar to try his skill in
preaching to a popular audience. Let him gather
round him a knot of costermongers or “ needy knife-
grinders.” Let him talk of humanity, homogeneity,
soleity, and be understood. Nay, more, let him go
and “ feed the hungry ” with his mellifluous prose,
and I bind up the broken-hearted ” with that poor
comfort his earth-born system professes to bestow.
October 1st, 1879,
THE DEVIL OF MASCON *
(Abridged from 11 The Psychological Review.'')
[The translation, of this early instance of the doings of a Pol¬
tergeist, or earth-bound spirit, is by Peter du Moulan, at the
request of the Hon. "Robert Boyle, who saw and conversed with
M. Perrault in Geneva.]
The 14th day of September, in the year 1612, I
went, with one of the elders of the Church of Mascon,
to the classical meeting held at the Borough of
Couches, and five days after we returned. Being
come home, I found my wife and her maid in very
great consternation, apparent in their face and coun¬
tenance. When I inquired of the cause of that great
alteration, my wife told me that the night after I
went out of town, she being in bed, her first sleep
was broken by something, she knew not what, that
drew her curtains with great noise and violence.
That her maid, that lay in another bed in the same
room, hearing that, arose in haste, and ran to her to
see what it was, but saw nothing; yea, that she found
the doors and windows of that room very close, as
she had shut them before she went to bed. My wife
told me, also, that the night following she made the
maid lie with her by reason of that accident. That,
as soon as they were in bed, they felt something that
pulled off their blankets. That then the maid,
getting out of the bed, went from that room, which is
at the back of the house, to go to a kitchen which is
in the midst of the house; but that she found the
door bolted, not within only, as she had bolted it
herself, but without also, which, before she could
perceive, after she had unbolted the door and would
open it, she felt resistance, as if a man had been on
the other side thrusting against her. That the maid,
finding herself shut up, called on a youth that lay in
another room on the foreside of the house, who rose
to open the door, to whom she would say nothing of
that disorder, lest he should be frighted; but, lighting
the candle, she found in the kitchen the pewter and
brass thrown about, wherewith the same night and
the following night the evil spirit made such a noise
as they use to make when they will hive bees.
Upon this relation, I will not dissemble that I was
seized with some amazement; yet so, that I took a
resolution not to be too credulous at such a strange
* A true relation of the chief things which an unclean spirit did and said at
Mascon, in Burgundy, in the house of Mr. Francis Perrault, minister of the
lleformed Church in that town. Published in French lately by himself, and
now made English by one that hath a particular knowledge of the truth of this
story. Oxford, 1658.
!j story, nor too incredulous neither. Sometimes I
| considered the frailty and timorousness of women;
sometimes I thought it might be the imposture of
| some knave hidden in the house. Wherefore, afore I
(j would go to bed, I carefully searched all the corners
I of the house, and set bolts and barricadoes to all the
| doors and windows of the house, stopping even the
| very cat-holes of the doors, and leaving nothing that
| might give way to suspicion of imposture. And after
i I had prayed with my family, I went to bed, while
my wife and her maid sat spinning by the fire, with a
| lamp upon the table.
Scarce was I in my bed than I heard a great noise
j from the kitchen, like the rolling of a bullet thrown
I. with great strength. I heard, also, a knocking
! against a partition of wainscot in the same kitchen,
| sometimes as with the point of the finger, sometimes
j as with the nails, sometimes as with the fist, and then
j the blows did redouble. Many things also were thrown
j against that wainscot, as plates, trenchers, and ladles,
and a music was made with a brass cullender, jingling
| with some buckles that were at it, and with some
\ other instruments of the kitchen. After I had given
|] attentive ear to that noise, I rose from my bed, and
\ | taking my sword, I went into the room where all that
stir was kept, the maid holding the candle before me,
q and did search narrowly whether I could find some-
n body hidden, but finding nothing, I returned to my
(j bed. The noise beginning again, I rose again and
| searched, but all in vain. Then did I begin to know,
>| indeed, that all this could not proceed but from a
)| wicked spirit, and so did I pass the rest of the night
J in such an astonishment as any man may imagine.
The next day very early I gave notice of it to the
)\ elders of the church. Yea, I thought fit to make it
| known to Mr. Francis Tornus, a royal notary and
|| procurator of Mascon, although he was a Roman
Catholic, and very zealous of his religion. Since that
j time, both he and all the others to whom I had
I imparted it, did not fail to visit me every evening,
either together or by turns, as long as that persecution
I continued, sitting up with me till midnight, and
sometimes longer.
The first night that they came, and some other
I following nights, the wicked spirit kept himself from
G making any noise or stir in their presence, as not
(j willing to be known to them. But, in the end, upon
n the 20th September, about nine o’clock, he made him-
>| self openly known for such as he was. For, in the
h presence of us all, Mr. Tornus being one of the
>! company, he began to whistle three or four times
h with a very'loud and shrill tone, and presently to
>1 frame an articulate and intelligible voice, though
(i somewhat hoarse, which seemed to be about three or
>! four steps from us. He pronounced these first words,
(j singing vingt et deux deniers, that is, two and
seventy-pence—a little tune of five notes which
(j whistling birds are taught to sing. After that, he
>| said and repeated many times this word, Minister,
(| minister! Because that voice was very terrible to
|] us at the first, I was long before I would answer any-
1] thing to that word, but only, Get thee from me,
>1 Satan; the Lord rebuke thee. But, as he was repeat-
| ing again very often that word, Minister, thinking
i (belike) thereby to grieve me much, I was provoked
to tell him, Yes, indeed, I am a minister, a servant of
the Living God, before whose majesty thou tremblest.
Oct. 10, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
To ■which he answered, I say nothing to the contrary.
And I replied, I have no need of thy testimony. Yet
he continued to say the same, as if he would win us
to a favourable opinion of him.
Then he would offer to transform himself into an
angel of light, saying, of his own accord and very loud,
the Lord’s prayer, the creed, the morning and
evening prayers, and the ten commandments. It is
true that he did always clip and leave out some part
of it. He sung also, with a loud and audible voice,
part of Psalm 81. Then said many things which
might be true, as some particular passages belonging
to my family, as, among other things, that my father
had been poisoned, naming the man that did it, and
why, specifying the place, and the manner of the
poison.
That very night he said that he came from Pais de
Vaux, that he had passed through the village of
Allamogne, at the door of my elder brother’s house,
where he had seen him with Mr. Hu Pan, minister of
Thoiry. That he had saluted them, and asked
whether they had anything to command him to deliver
to me, because he was going to Mascon. That they
had showed themselves very kind to him, and desired
him to remember their love to me ; yea, and had in¬
vited him to drink with them. Thou wicked fiend
(said I to the spirit), had they known that, they would
not have been so kind to thee.
Some truth there was in his story, for Mr. Hu Pan
hath since told me, and many others, that they re¬
membered very well how at that very time a man of
such and such a shape, riding on a very lean horse,
that hung down his head, had spoken with them, and
that such discourse passed between them. ....
We wondered that the dog of the house, who used
to be very watchful, and would bark at the least noise,
yet never barked at the loud speaking and hideous
noise of the demon. He said, of his own accord,
without asking, You wonder that the dog barketh not;
it is because I made the sign of the cross upon his
head.
He delighted much in jesting with the maid of the
house, calling her Bressande (that is, a woman of the
country of Bressia), and counterfeited her language.
One night, as she went up to the garret to fetch coals,
he told her, Thou art very bold to pass near me ; and
making a noise, as if he had clapped his hands to¬
gether, he said, I will put thee in my sack.
He sung many profane songs, and counterfeited the
voice of jugglers and mountebanks, and especially
that of huntsmen crying. He offered to tempt us by
covetousness (one of the ordinary temptations of the
devil, for which reason he is called Mammon). . . .
He told me in great wrath that he would do this
and that to me. Among other things, he said that
when I should be in bed he Would come and pull off
my blankets, and pull me out of the bed by the feet.
I answered him : I will lay me down and sleep, for
the Lord maketh me to dwell in safety. I told him,
also, that which Jesus Christ said to Pilate : Thou
hadst no power on me but what is given thee from
above. Whereupon he answered me, repeating two
or three times these words : It is well for thee ; it is
well for thee. ...
The demon having used all these wiles against us,
was forced to say that he could not prevail against us,
because we did call too much upon the name of God.
I To §how the efficacy of our prayers, this is an obser-
! vable truth, that every time the devil saw that we
| began to kneel to go to our prayers, he left talking,
| and many times told us these words—While you are
I at your prayers, I’ll go take a turn in the street.
|| Really, whether he went forth or stayed, we had a
i wonderful silence during our prayer. But no sooner
I Was the prayer done than he began again as before,
and urged and solicited us to speak with him; and so
continued speaking and provoking us to speak till the
25th of November, when he spake these words : Alas,
alas, I shall speak no more ! From that very time
he gave over, and spake no more.
As his words were strange and admirable, so were
| his actions, for, besides those which I have related
done in my absence, he did many more of the same
| kind, as tossing about very often a great roll of cloth
of fifty ells, which a friend had left at my house to be
| sent to Lyons by water. Once he snatched a brass
| candlestick out of the maid’s hand, leaving the
| candle lighted in her hand. He would very often
I take the maid’s coats and hang them over the bed¬
posts, setting over them a rough hat, such as the
I country women of Bresse used to wear, for she was of
that country. Sometimes he would hang at those posts
a great starching-plate, with cords so tied, and with
| so many knots, that it was impossible to untie them,
I and yet himself would suddenly untie them in a
| moment. And many times he hath so twisted radishes
together that the like could not be done unless it had
| been studied with a very long patience and leisure.
One afternoon a friend of mine, one Mr. Connain,
a physician of Mascon, bestowed a visit upon me.
| As I was relating unto him these strange passages we
| went together to the chamber where the demon was
| most resident. There we found the feather bed,
blankets, sheets, and bolster, laid all upon the floor.
| I called the maid to make the bed, which she did in
our presence ; but presently, we being walking in the
same room, saAV the bed undone and tumbled down on
i the floor as it was before. Sometimes he would be
I the groom of my stable, rubbing my horse, and plait-
| ing the hair of his tail and mane; but he was an
unruly groom, for once I had found that he had
<1 saddled my horse with the crupper before, and the
;j pommel behind.
He made us hear for a long time a harmony, not
I unpleasant, of two little bells tied together, which
(| he had taken among some rusty irons in my house.
)j Neither did the demon use these bells in my house
(| only, but he carried them about to many places, both
)| of the town and country. Upon a Lord’s-day morn-
i ing, as I was going to officiate at Urigny, with some
j! elders of my church, we heard the sound of these
< | bells very near our ears. Mr. Lullier, one of our
)j company, affirmed unto me that he had heard those
<| bells many times at his house. Many others have
) | heard them very near, but could never see them.
|j Neither did that demon play his tricks only at my
>! house. Mr. Lullier hath told me of many of his
I actions in his house and shop—as the taking and
>| hiding of his jewels or tools, and then putting them
(j again where they were before. While Mr. Lullier
was telling me of this, he laid a gold ring which he
In had then in hand upon the table, with the tool he
j)j held it with, but presently he found them missing,
|(| and in vain sought them half an hour; wherefore, he
178
THE SPIRITUALIST.
betook himself to other work, then he and I saw both L
the ring and the tool fall, we knew not from whence, r
upon the table again. j<
Leaving now such actions as the demon did out of H
my house, as things of which I cannot speak with the j <
like certainty as those which I have seen and heard jj
myself, I will but add his last actions at my house, j <
and indeed the most troublesome of all, as they say I
that the devil is always more violent in the end than h
in the beginning, and is then most fierce when he I
must be gone. He threw stones about my house I
continually the ten or twelve last days, morning to !
evening, and in great quantity, some of them of two |
or three pounds weight  j
Many have attributed the coming of that demon to | (
my maid Bressande, of whom I spake before, for she i|
was suspected to be a witch born of parents suspected j <
of witchcraft. Once, when she saw me afraid lest the 11
devil should hurt two youths that lay in a room next j<
to that where he was heard, she told me fear not, for j{
he will do them no harm. And the truth is, she |<
would jest and be familiar with him. She did once {
expostulate with the demon that he brought her no ij
wood, whereupon he presently threw down a faggot |
for her at the stairfoot. And whereas, upon her
ofiering to leave our service, another came to serve
us in her place, and lay in the same bed with her, the
demon, who never hurt her, would beat that new maid
in the bed, and pour water upon her head till he
forced her to go away. This and other like things
gave me an ill opinion of her, as one that might be
a concurrent cause of the coming of that hellish
guest.
[To the narrative is appended a testimony of “ approbation
of Authority of the Synod of Burgundy,” in which province he
had “ exercised the charge of the Holy Ministry for fifty years.”]
DECEASE OF FICHTE, THE SPIRITUALIST.
The last intelligence from Stuttgard, Germany,
informs us of the death of Immanuel Hermann Fichte,
the celebrated philosopher, co-editor for many years
with Ulrici, of the leading philosophical journal in
the German language, and author of numerous works
which have won for him high distinction. Born in
1797 he was the son of Johann Gottleib Fichte, who
was born in 1762, and for whom, at his baptism, an
aged relative of the mother predicted future eminence.
The prophecy was abundantly fulfilled; J. G. Fichte
is in the front rank of German philosophy along with
Leibnitz and Kant.
I. H. Fichte, the son, has won a renown equally
imperishable; but it will be much greater in the future
than it is now. One of the earliest papers in which
he foreshadows his spiritualistic stage of thought
was an article on “ Soul, Spirit, and Consciousness
from the standpoint of Psychophysical Science.” In
this, he argues (consistently with the teachings of
Spiritualism) that the notions of time and space have
their origin in a peculiar feeling of duration and
extension which is inseparable from the soul’s con¬
sciousness of itself; that they have their basis in the
objective nature of the soul itself; and that time and
space are simply the accompanying qualities, or, more
explicitly, the phenomenal effects of all real things,
as such. This solution of the question as to the
nature of space and time, and as to the subjective and
objective significance of our conceptions of them, is
Oct. 10, 1879.
regarded by Fichte as forming the basis of a sound and
firmly established philosophy of realism, which yet
diminishes in nothing the just priority in rank of the
ideal nature of the human spirit, nor takes in the least
from the significance and importance of d 'priori
truths.
In 1859-60, I. H. Fichte became a convert to
Spiritualism through his opportunities of witnessing
the pneumatographic and other phenomena which
occurred in the presence of his friend Baron Gulden-
stubbe, a medium, a scholar, and a man of position,
whose ample means permitted him to give the mani¬
festations gratuitously to all seekers for the truth.
From that time up to the period of his decease,
Fichte has been a devoted student of the great sub¬
ject of pneumatology, and in a work first published
within the present year, and entitled The Worth and
the Illusions of Spiritualism, he has presented such
a defence of the science as only ignorance can con¬
test. He avows himself explicitly a Spiritualist, and
says that the cause of Spiritualism is secure in
Germany ; that the experiments of Zdllner, Weber,
Fechner, and others have settled the question con¬
clusively for science.
It was a great gain for Spiritualism to have a man
like Fichte thus intrepidly, in his old age, enter the
breach and bear the banner of truth where so many,
under the flag of a pseudo-science, were our scornful
opponents. With Hoffman and Fechner he has been
the leader in introducing into philosophy the great
facts of Spiritualism. The revolution which the
infusion is destined to cause, can hardly yet be esti¬
mated. The leaven is working, and the signs are
most auspicious. Even Hartmann, the famous
atheistic and pessimistic philosopher of Berlin, has
been forced to admit our phenomena. That they
will remain barren in so active a mind is not
probable.
With the exception of the Boston Herald and some
few other journals, which are not afraid of unpopu¬
larity, the secular newspapers, in noticing Fichte’s
decease, make no reference to the fact of his Spirit¬
ualism and his writings in support of the science. We
are not surprised at this. But we can bide our time ;
and so can the fame of Immanuel Hermann Fichte.
—Religio-Philosophical Journal.
A SPIRITUALISTIC CAMP MEETING.
{From “ The Religio-Philosophical Journal.”)
I WRITE in a tent, under the shade of great hem¬
locks and oaks, and look out on the limpid waters of
Sunapee Lake. In the distance Kearsarge and
Sunapee mountains loom up three thousand feet
against the blue sky; all along the shore are
forests, rocks, and hills ; in the lake are wild rocky
islands. A little steamer runs from the railroad,
six miles south-west, touching at a few points along
the ten miles length of the lake—a charming ride.
Coming from Lake Pleasant my route was up the
Connecticut River valley, some seventy miles, with
fine meadows, great elms, old and well-kept farm¬
houses, and thriving villages and towns along the
way, and the Green Mountains of Vermont westward
holding watch over all. At Claremont junction a
change of cars, an hour’s ride through wild woods of
birch and hemlock, winding along foaming mountain
179
Ocr. 10, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
streams and beautiful inter-vales, well cultivated, |||
with the great hills and rude rocks ever in sight, a m
landing by the lake, and the steamboat ride here, the j(j
pure mountain air, the wonderful scenery, the light };]
and shade of lake and sky and mountains at sunset m
last night—no poor words can describe them, no skill |)|
of artist more than faintly copy such revelations of |(j
the Infinite strength and beauty. j)j
Yesterday five or six hundred people were at the ju
opening of the camp meeting ; next Sunday will more |)|
than double the number, and I. P. Greenleaf and j(j
others will speak. George A. Fuller and Henry B. |j|
Allen—the first a speaker and medium well-known uj
here, the second “ the Allen boy ” grown to married of
manhood and still an excellent medium—are the active | (j
managers, with Mr. Blodget, a resident and owner m
of the Grove. Last night I slept on a mattress Kj
spread on the floor in a corner of a new hall, and j>l
William Eddy and a young man with him had a bed j)j
on the floor some thirty feet distant, two others oj
using another bed beside them. The lamp was out j||
and all quiet, when I heard and felt the heavy tread | !
of two persons stalking across the floor and making it | (|
shake; then came their Indian dancing, and the l)j
moving of benches to and fro, while I know that Eddy m
was on his bed talking with us and listening. A long m
bench was lifted up and laid gently across the bodies |(|
of George Fuller and his friend in their bed, and j)j
then all was quiet. Soon the night watchman came j<j
in to ask about a strange light which he and others j)j
had seen like a bright lantern held some four or five m
feet high, starting from a corner of the building and j)j
going around it on the outside. I saw it flash in at |(
the window, but supposed some one was passing. i)j
The whole was a phase of the weird and strange mani- Hi
festations through the Eddys. I saw last night Mr. j 11
Foskett, an unpretending young man, wash his hands m
in clean water just from the lake, and brought by one {|
of a committee to be free from any chemicals, wipe |
them dry, pass into a semi-trance, light a kerosene j>
lamp and leave the chimney off, and then hold his H
hands in the hot flame and let it curl up through and 1/
around his fingers, not hastily but with cool delibera- j \
tion, and repeatedly. Then he put on the chimney jl
and reached his hand down inside, letting the bright 111
flame, which burned as high and strong as possible, j)j
envelop his hand. This lasted some ten minutes, jjj
when he washed his hands, and we all stepped forward jjj
to see and feel them. They were cold, but the skin j
was natural, with no marks of fire or heat, and not a jj
hair singed. Was it spiritual chemisty, or what ? It j(
was not pleasant, yet it was wonderful indeed. j
Tuesday, Aug. 26th, nine a.m.—Last night Mr. jv
Fuller and Mr. Foskett shared a bed in a room by j
themselves, and for two hours saw a bright light in j
the corner of the room some six or eight inches in !
diameter, heard many raps, and were touched and j
pulled gently. The mists are creeping over the lake ij
and rain is coming. After our morning meeting I jj
take the steamer and start homeward, closing a month jj
of camp meetings. G. B. Stebbins.
ORGANISATION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS.
Next Tuesday the Council of the National Association of
Spiritualists will have to declare for or against life-directorship, and
whether it will or will not give facilities to enable the mejnbers,
and not the directors of the Association, to dooid§ this principle
by general vote. Soon after the founding of the Association Mr.
Martin Smith publicly set forth the advantages of one-third
the managers of the Association being replaced annually by new
blood, but the enormous size of the Council has killed the action
of this beneficial principle; it is so large that there is scarcely
any yearly contest, and nearly all the persons nominated walk in
unopposed, there being too few candidates for the vacant seats to
bring about much in the shape of a contested election. Thus, out
of the present Council of sixty or seventy persons, the members
at large have only been able to vote for or against the election
of three or four in two years. The business of the Association
is therefore practically now managed by some twelve or six¬
teen persons, the majority of whom have never rendered
any public services to Spiritualism, and whose very names are
almost unknown to Spiritualists at large. They obtained
their places on the mere nomination of some personal friend, the
vacancies on the enormous Council being so many that they
necessarily walked in unopposed. Of late they have only found
two or three persons known for good public services to uphold
their measures and their principles, and they hold on to the
names of these two or three of their brethren as shipwrecked
sailors cling to planks. But those same measures and principles
have driven out of the Association a considerable number of
Spiritualists noted for their public services, who by frequent
attendance at the Council had personal knowledge of the modes
of action, and the calibre of the men who now rule in it. Among
those who once took an active part in the management, and
saw quite enough for themselves to absent themselves from its
meetings, and finally to leave the Association, were one of its
chief founders, Mr. Martin Smith; also Mr. C. C. Massey
and Mr. G. C. Joad, who is one of the witnesses
wiio so well supported Dr. Slade, at Bow-street, when
attacked by Dr. Lankester; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory;
Mrs. Louisa Lowe, who is one of the best public speakers con¬
nected with Spiritualism, and Mr. Harrison. These had know¬
ledge of their own, from personal observation, of the way in which
the public business was conducted. Mr. Charles Blackburn and
others noted in Spiritualism have also left. The library of the
Association is a good one, so is the reading-room; probably there
is little dissension among the members. The only weak point is
the small clique of working managers, some of whom, but we
hope not many, have so little public principle or power of sub¬
ordinating the desire for personal aggrandisement to the public
good that they will fight to the last for life-directorship, and
against the members of the Association being allowed to forth¬
with elect a Council of reasonable size by vote. We believe the
feeling among some of us who criticise them to be, that they are
powerless for good themselves, and that an organisation under
their control merely stands in the way of something better. If
it goes on as at present it must cause a split in the movement;
for how can sensible people be expected to foster an incipient
engine of tyranny, and to let themselves be headed by almost
unknown life-directors ? If it dies it will do the good service of
clearing the way for something better, and there is no fear that
the public will not preserve its reading-room and library, hence we
have no compunction in calling attention to its failings,
despite a lingering regard for it, as it existed in days
when it worked only for the public good. But instead of
dying it had better reform and live on good healthy prin¬
ciples ; that is to say, begin by reducing its Council to such
a size that the members at large need elect scarcely anybody to
serve on it who has not rendered sufficient public service to
Spiritualism to make it reasonable to appoint him. It ought
to be a great satisfaction to those most conscientious, chief
working officers, the president and the secretary, should they
a month hence, by means of an election, find peace everywhere
in the Association, and see around the Council-board a dozen or
more, instead of but two or three, persons who have rendered
public services to Spiritualism, and who are not almost unknown
to the movement at large. Some of those who have never done
anything but stir up strife, have been actively in office for three
or four years, so ought now to face a general election. Of
course, we have been bespattered with maficious personal abuse
for vigorously fighting against life-directorship, and in favour of
the troubled affairs of the Association being referred to the
members at large by means of a general election; but we wish
the Council could consider these public questions on public
grounds, without dragging in personalities. There is no animus,
and nothing of a personal nature in these remarks, although there
is regret and disgust enough at the way we have seen the public
rights troddep under foot, See The Spiritualist of May 9th, 1879.
Oct. 10, 1879.
180 THE SPIRITUALIST.
INFOKMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size,
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.1
CONTENTS
CHAPTER, I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V: —Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted^—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others' in which they do
not Act—^Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Sna.il Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &e., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characteis—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—-The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—^Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance. Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis —Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—^Apparitions—^Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
nd Summary.
. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 30, British Museum'>streetj London
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R,. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena :—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number Of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
. 6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Oct. 10, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
British national associa¬
tion OB’ SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Groat Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
origiual position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
BAZAAR
AT NEWCASTLE. ON-TYNE.
THE BAZAAR in aid of the effort to
obtain a Lecture Room, and Premises in this
town, more worthy of our beloved cause, will be held
in the Lecture Room of the Newcastle Spiritual
Evidence Society, on Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday, October 28th, 29th, and 30th. Contri¬
butions towards the same, either in money or goods
for sale, will be most thankfully received by the
under-mentioned Ladies:—
Mrs. J. Mould, 12, St. Thomas-crescent, Newcastle-
on-Tyne.
Mrs. W. 0. Robson, 8, Brandling-place West, New-
castle-on-Tyne.
Mrs. W. Hunter, 89, High-street, Gateshead.
Mrs. J. Hare, 15, Chester-crescent, Newcastle-on-
Tjne.
Mrs. J. Hammarborn, 117, Northumberland-street,
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Mrs. Henry Norris, 59, Newgate-street, Newcastle-
on Tyne.
Miss Coltman, 4, Picton-terrace, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Miss C. E. Wood, 3, Sunderland-street, Newcastle-
on-Tyne.
Miss E. H. Elliott, Albert-drive, Low Fell, Gates¬
head.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.G.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 IPs. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
It Cossonerie, Paris.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8 vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee MID.,
Cot responding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE YEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of '• M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“01 Beautiful White Mother Death." Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. Y. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IY.—Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of 2'he Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wunnbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
0. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand.. By the
Rev. O Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon."
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesf alien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Beme ; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
I XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
The trapped medium;
OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d.;
post free, 6£d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 83, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers;
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ? — Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza—Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—^Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Ohaseray —•
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII,—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality-
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss—Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
PART I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
PART II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song’’—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXL Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.G.
T> EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
JAi psychologiques, fonde- par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 6, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
iv
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFOBE AND AFTER THE
Christmas [Padding,
USE
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SAUT,
Prepared from Sound Bipe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects 'of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Bev. De. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
STIMULANTS AND INSUFFICIENT
IO AMOUNT of EXEBCISE frequently DE-
BANGE the LIVEB. ENO’S FBUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WOBLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FBUIT SALT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FBUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—WOOD Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c,, use
ENO’S ERUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
FBUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
TUGGED, WEARY, AND WORN
JP OUT! 11 Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FKUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FBUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“14, Ruedela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which he did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
Beral.
TANG’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer-
JLJ ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try ENO’S FBUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health ; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Pt st Office, Barrasford.”
“ QUCCESS IN LIFE.”—A new in¬
fo vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediat3ly introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
merited '‘UNO'S FRUIT SALT.'’ Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS,
Hatcham, London, S.E.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PEOSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
ther standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shaeabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabae, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—it. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. OurBaven.
—13. Materialistic Eeligion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!"—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes."
—24. The Angel of Silence.
PART 2.~—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Becep-
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Bifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. — 29. The July Bug. — 30. The Converted
Carman. —    -■
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d, each; postage 8(3. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIBITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.B S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.O.
LE JOURNAL Dfr MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mons. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
DR. CARTER-BLAKE’S BRITISH
MUSEUM LEOTUBES will be recommenced
in the middle of October next, when arrangements on
a large scale will be made to render the British Museum
(as suggested by the Principal Librarian) useful for
the purposes of general tuition before schools.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Eoughton, St.
George’s-road.
October, 1879.] [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
The Devil of Mascon—An Ignored Scripture Pro¬
mise : A.M.—Physical Immortality: J. W. F.—Popular
Errors and Objections to Spiritualism Explained and
Answered—A Boy’s Memory—Modern Spiritualism:
its Bise and Progress. With a brief Account of its
Facts and Theories: J. S. Farmer.—Notes and Glean¬
ings : The Imperative Necessity of Testing Mediums ;
A Comfortable Consideration; The Forthcoming Auto¬
biography of Dr. Newton ; Professor Wagner, Spirit¬
ualism and its Opponents ; Spiritualism on Board the
Cuzo; A Scientific Basis for Faith; Fichte on the
Unreliability of Great Names in Spirit Communica¬
tions; A Curious Incident relating to the Prince
Imperial; “ Believes that he believes; ” Faith and
Season; How Little the World Misses any Man ;
Cured by a Spirit. Poetry—Believe and Trust: S. C.
Hall.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW; Hay Nisbet & Co., 52, Ropework-lane
Oct. 10,
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . ,76
The Teacher. „ II. . „ . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ . .76
The Beformer. „ IV. „ . .76
The Thinker. „ V. , ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest 7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People     .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life ... . . . 3 6
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age .36
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Beligion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE BIBKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOE TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Bent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIBKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate. possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIBKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FEANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane,
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS EAVENSCBOFT, Manager,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Price 5s. Cr, 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON)," on
PSYGHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING,
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
CONTENTS.
Future Research in Spiritualism    169
Visions      169
Correspondence :—A Materialisation^ance    171
Answers to Correspondents ’.  171
Original Research in Spiritualism  171
Paragraph:—“Passed Away”    171
The Influence of Mesmerism  172
Shakespeare. By the Bev. W. B. Tomlinson  173
Mr. Powell’s Mediumship     178
The Psychological Review  .'.  174
Apparitions        174
A Quibble Brushed Away    174
Spiritualism and the Church of England. By a
Young Clergyman    175
The Devil of Mascon         176
Decease of Fichte, the Spiritualist   178
A Spiritualistic Camp Meeting  178
Organi-ation among Spiritualists  179
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveeidge and Co.
at the Bolborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub
lished by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane. London
E.C.
