Eegisteeed as a Newspaeee.
#Iksf roimeckb toitj ^prxtualism m (&x£%t ^ritaitr.
No. 397.—(Yol. XYI.—No. 14.) LONDON: FRIDAY, APRIL 2, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HAISTOYER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of hooka
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEYOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. B LAV ATS KY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, OIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to 11 The Proprietors of 1 The Theosophistj ” at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. *Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with having written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 2, 1880.
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Bad Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism,
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
and
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
The BEY. SIB WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
"Will Lecture at Stemway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
THE SPIRiTS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand,
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubneb and Co.) London.
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
D. YOUNGER,
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored simply by
the influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient.
Any form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (corner of Moscow-road and
Hereford-road), Bayswater, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 178,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Crown 8vo., pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its hearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . .His eclecticism has led him to recognize philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Tall Mall
Gazette.
London : Tbubneb and Co., Ludgate Hill.
32 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 3d.
RATIONALE OF SPIRITUALISM.
. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane.
Just Published.
TEE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
. Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
ost free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O.
MRS. W00DF0RDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to'circumstances. Days
and hours of business—Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Keppell-street, Russell-square, W.C.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earls-court, S.W.
MIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.8.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free.
UNACY LAW REFORM
ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 pm. Saturdays 1 to 2
L
THIRTY-SECOND
anniversary of modern
ALA. SPIRITUALISM will be celebrated at Stein¬
way Hall, Lower Seymour Street, Portman Square,
W. on Sunday April 4th, service at 11 a.m. and 7 p.m.
Among the speakers who will be present are:—
Rev. Stainton Moses, Mr. Thomas Shorter, Mr. E.
■. Greene, Miss S. E. Gay, and Mrs. Fletcher. Mr.
, William Fletcher in the chair. Admission Free.
A LLEGORICAL SKETCHES,
jlA. The Christmas No. of
“THE BETTER LIFE.”
Price la 64.
Victoria Steam Press,117,PraedStreet,London, W.,
(CHINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
\J WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Earthenware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system
J. M. DALE,
50, Crawford-street, Bryanston-square, London.
jt ^ajjit of lljij ^ijogvoss of attft of jljtttjitttnftont.
No. 397.—VOLUME SIXTEEN; NUMBEE EOUETEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 2nd, 18 8 0.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WIDLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Ni¬
cholas op Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
of Caithness
The Baroness Von Vat, Coun¬
tess Wiirmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof,
St. Petersburg
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexander Calder, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
Mrs. Maxdougall Gregory
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Captain John James
S. O. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
DJX
H. D. Jenckbn, Esq., M.R.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
J. T. Markley, Esq.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Marry at
Madame Isabel db Steiger
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holm-
feld (Holstein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M. Adelberth de Bourbon
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. Varley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Fbiese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. George Wyld
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.,
M.D., Melbourne
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Bark as, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
|H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 83, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G- Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai ; 51. East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S. ; Beligio-Philosophical Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
-No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
MESMERIC PHENOMENA AT SPIRIT
CIRCLES.
Nothing is more needed at the present time
than the encouragement of mesmerists and the
study of mesmeric phenomena by Spiritualists.
All mediums are more or less mesmeric sensi¬
tives, and during seances they pass in some de¬
gree under mesmeric influence, so that the
observer is not competent to efficiently in¬
vestigate spiritual phenomena, when he is
devoid of knowledge of Mesmerism.
A sensitive under the influence of Mesmerism
is sometimes completely controlled by the will
of the mesmerist, so is not responsible, for the
time being, for his actions. When a mesmerist
tells a subjugated youth that he is an eagle,
and the sensitive begins to flap his arms in the
attempt to fly, the observers do not consider
the hoy to he morally and intellectually re¬
sponsible for the act, nor is there any reason
why those mediums who pass into deep mes¬
meric states at seances should be judged by
different laws.
Some years ago, at a dark seance, it is within
our knowledge that a medium disengaged his
hand from the sitter upon one side of him, and
picked up, as sounds and motions indicated, a
roll of cardboard from the table. The observer
thought this to be the beginning of an act of
trickery, but the medium immediately re-joined
hands, and the roll of cardboard began flying
about the room, and beating upon a ceiling too
high for any of the sitters to reach. So the
medium, probably under the mesmeric influence
of spirits, had been made to lift the object to
a level at which it could be seized and after¬
wards controlled by spirit power. A hasty
observer, under the circumstances, might have
seized the medium at the time he had the roll
of cardboard in his hand, and denounced him
to the company as an impostor, who assuredly
would then have condemned an innocent man.
Possibly the spirits produce materialised
hands by bringing their will-power to bear
upon the medium, and when the power is
weak may move his hand, instead of the
materialised hand which they intended to
throw off from it. The materialised hands
158
are usually the duplicates in appearance of R
those of the medium, and the slightest dis- u
turbing influence causes a reunion of the two. j<
The same principles apply to the full forms.
In another case, a medium one afternoon <
sat by the fireside tying up her wrists with tape. j<
u Why are you doing that ? ” said her mother, jj
“ I’m not doing it,” was the reply. (e What do <
you mean? I can see you doing it, and you |<
know you are doing it.” The response was j<
“I’m not doing it; the tape is being tied by jj
X ”—here she named a spirit who was always |j
active at her seances. She was in a mesmeric j<
state, and could not control what her hands were j <
doing.
Mediums during the first few years of their n
development are more liable to such influences |<
than those who possess the strongest powers. j<
Hot only is a medium a mesmeric sensitive, !>
but the strongest manifestations often occur.js
when he can pass quietly into a state of sleep k
or trance. If new inquirers were aware of j?
this, they would not so frequently retard I;
manifestations by worrying and cross-question- K
ing the medium, at a time when he should be K
in a state of repose of body and mind. Often |?
when manifestations are about to begin, a j;
question is put to a medium, who murmurs a K
reply as if he were awaking from a dream, k
and the evolution of the phenomena is re- j;
tarded for several minutes.
Much of the prejudice of the ignorant |s
against Mesmerism has worn away, which is jc
another reason why a strong alliance between I?
Mesmerism and Spiritualism should be looked !)
upon with favour. Mesmeric lecturers should jS
be engaged and encouraged by Spiritualists K
everywhere; the psychological phenomena w
they can present in public are exceedingly p
interesting, and throw light upon some of the K
difficulties which beset investigators at spirit k
circles. 6
■ 4. 
A VOICE FROM LAODICEA. *
(Continued). |)
BY F. PODMORE, B.A. (OXON-.), F.O.S.
Again to revert to my illustration, the blow k
which I received may have been inflicted by j;
the stick of a careless passer-by, or a hundred Is
other known agencies. Yet, I believe it to K
have been the hansom cab, only because, in I?
balancing the probabilities on a matter of such |S
trifling importance, I am content with a very js
small surplus on the one side or the other.
But the importance of the subject of Spirit- I)
ualism will only in a very small measure explain | \
my scepticism. I may refuse to believe the Is
first tidings of some great calamity, or some R
April 2, 1880.
sudden good fortune. But scepticism in such
matters, we know well, endures for hours, not
years. Clearly then, neither the momentous
issues involved, nor the introduction of a
previously unknown agent, are adequate of
themselves to explain this state of mind.
THE BORDER-LAND BETWEEN FACT AND MYTH.
To take another instance. Some seven
years ago there appeared in The Zoologist a
paragraph, copied, I think, from some American
paper, relating how a traveller had found, in
a remote district of Siberia, a country with a
fairly temperate climate; that this traveller
had ventured some distance into the country,
and had there seen quietly feeding by the
river-side, herds of the woolly rhinoceros, and
the long-haired russet mammoth, and of other
animals supposed by geologists to be extinct.
I have heard nothing more of this discovery,
so I imagine that it has still to be made. But,
I have no doubt that many people who are
better acquainted with the facts of palseon-
tology than most American editors believed it
at the time. Indeed, there is nothing
absolutely improbable in it, for the entire
carcases of both the animals mentioned have
been found in the frozen soil of those regions ;
though we may think it unlikely that a few
individuals, despite the rigours of the climate,
and the scantiness of the food, should have
survived to confound the geological sceptic.
But, let us take yet another instance ; suppose
that some captain of a merchantman, of un¬
questioned integrity, should assert that in
some remote tropical ocean he had seen and
captured a monster, whose description should
exactly tally with that of the long extinct
Ichthyosaurus, a huge sea lizard, which lived in
what is called the reptilian period of the earth’s
history. Suppose, that neither he nor his crew
having ever been inside a museum, or’ ever
having read a book on geology, they should
describe accurately the enormous narrow jaws
of the monster, thick set with pointed teeth,
the ring of large bony plates round the eyes,
to protect them from the fury of the waves,
the four paddles in the place of limbs, the
fishlike body and nondescript tail,—the tout en¬
semble^ in short, of just such a creature as Mr.
Waterhouse Hawkins has modelled at the
Crystal Palace. Certainly no geologist would
give credence to the story. He would urge
how improbable, (he would most likely in
the heat of his indignation against popular
credulity, say impossible), it was that any air-
breathing animal having survived so many
revolutions of climate, the upheavings and en-
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 2, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
159
gulphings of so many continents, and all the -|?j
innumerable changes and chances which had j>|
destroyed the last of its kindred long ages ago, m
haying left no trace through untold generations |<j
in the rock-sepulchres of all the earth, should |?j
he at last found alive in a world which had j>j
forgotten it, by a crew of unlettered seamen, jsj
On the other hand, the Ichthyosaurists would Kj
urge the integrity and the consentaneity of j?|
the witnesses; and the impossibility of so j;l
many points of likeness in their description Is]
being attributable to mere coincidence. They Kj
would maintain that the very ignorance of the j/j
observers was the strongest possible argument j>j
for the trustworthiness of their testimony, jsj
They would remind the sceptics that the jjj
remains of birds had long escaped detection, j>|
yet were now found in the oldest of the jjj
secondary rocks; and that here and there, in South j s j
American rivers or Australian seas, there are <
yet to be found fish with thick bony scales, m
huge fish-like reptiles, flat teethed sharks, |;|
and other strange survivals from an earlier |sj
world. They would point out, that mariners k!
in all ages had had traditions, and in our times ?|
detailed narratives of krakens, sea-serpents, !)j
and monstrous cuttlefish. They would find <
here a foundation for the legend of the great k
sea-monster from whom Perseus rescued j>j
Andromeda, for the Dragons whom Siegfried |>j
slew, and for Midgard, the sea snake of Kj
Scandinavian mythology. There could even IH
be some found to maintain that when a few |?j
hiatuses in the manuscript had been filled j)j
up by skilful conjecture, the description of jsl
Behemoth, in the book of Job, could apply to Kj
none other than to the long lost Ichthyosaurus. j>j
I am sure that the Ichthyosaurists would have jS|
the best of the argument, and I am equally Kj
sure that, with all the weapons in the armoury |?j
of logic, they would fail to convince an in- !>j
credulous world. And if the sceptics were jvj
shown to be right, their disbelief would be i<j
vaunted as due to a scientific instinct for the m
naturally possible and impossible ; and if they * j>j
should be wrong, it would be held up to re- |Sj
probation as a mischievous and unscientific j<j
preconception. And yet the method would Kj
be the same, and by it, and not according to |>|
the issue, should they be judged worthy of js|
praise or blame.
SCIENTIFIC MEN VERSUS LOGIC. Ki
Now this method is consciously adopted by j;j
many men of science in dealing with the alle- jsj
gations of Spiritualists, as we see from explicit jsj
statements in their writings. Professor |<1
Tyndall, in his well-known essay, “Science [$
and the Spirits,” writes as follows :—Belief in
Spiritualism “is a state perfectly compatible
with extremeintellectual subtlety, and a capacity
for devising hypotheses which only require the
hardihood engendered by strong conviction
 to render them impregnable.
The logical feebleness of science is not suffi¬
ciently borne in mind. It keeps down the
weed of superstition, not by logic, but by
slowly rendering the mental soil unfit for its
cultivation.” And the same view is expressed
in far stronger language by Dr. Beard, of New
York, in an article entitled “ Psychology and
Spiritism,” in the North American Review, for
July, 1879. “ Other factors,” he writes, “ being
the same, a commonplace man, without logic,
or imagination, or education, or aspiration,
would be less likely to be conquered by a de¬
lusion, than a successful lawyer, or judge, or
scientific discoverer; for logical, well-trained,
truth loving minds, the only security against
Spiritism is in hiding or running away. If
they venture a fair and open attack, and are
true to their convictions and the necessities of
logic, they must unconditionally surrender.
If Sir Isaac Newton were alive to-day, he
would not unlikely be a convert to Spiritism :
   . the amount of
human testimony in favour of Spiritualistic
claims is a millionfold greater than that in
favour of the theory of gravity. The late
Judge Edmonds used to say that he sifted the
evidence of spirit manifestations, just as he
sifted the evidence in cases of law; and in ac¬
cordance with the same principles, and from the
standard of the law books and the universities
his position was impregnable.”
Truly, what he intended to curse, like
Balaam, he has blessed altogether. Por this
is the utterance of a man who ascribes the
whole of the phenomena to our old friends—ex¬
pectancy, delusion, and the fallacy of non¬
observation. “My friends,” said Chadband,
“ what is truth ? Is it a lie ?” and Dr. Beard,
I apprehend, would answer in the affirmative.
The gauntlet is here boldly thrown down.
Both these champions of modern science do
deliberately, what the greater part of the civil¬
ized world do unconsciously: they decide
against the claims of Spiritualism in defiance of
the rules of formal logic.
“It aint by principles nor men
Their prudent course is steadied,”
but in the words of Dr. Beard, “by the in¬
spiration of the scientific sense.” It is this
scientific sense which presumably withholds
us from belief. What it is we shall best be
160
THE SPIRITUALIST.
enabled to judge if we consider the genesis of jj
the kindred and better known moral and geo- |>
metrical senses, as they are called. K
THE ORIGIN OF THE MORAL LAW.
Why is it that most civilised persons are as u
little likely to commit wilful murder, or to I?
steal their neighbour’s goods, as they are to assert | j
that two straight lines are capable of enclosing |j
a space, or that two and two make five. In ji
other words, what is it that makes men act ac- | <
cording to the moral law, just as they think |j
according to the mathematical law ? Two !)
answers have been given to this question. K
Some have maintained that there is a native, j?
heaven-born instinct in man, independent of ! i
all experience, which compels him to do right. K
They have compared this instinct to the in- K
stinct for food, and have argued that as we K
eat from a craving for food, so we do right, |
because we have a hunger after righteousness, j
and that in neither case do we stop to consider K
that it will be to our advantage to do so. |j
Others assert that we do .right, and refrain j)
from wrong, because we have found such, on |!
the whole, to be the course most conducive to li
our physical welfare. They represent a man \\
as arguing with himself: <( If I punch his j;
head now, he’ll punch mine next time, and |j
two sound heads are better than two sore K
ones ; ” so he thinks better of it, and puts his
hands in his pockets. And they shew that, as j)
we should certainly act morally, whether we K
had a moral sense or not, because it is to our K
interest to do so, it is as absurd to invent such |j
a moral sense to account for what can be so |>
readily explained without it, as it would be to f
suppose that we had a wild-beast-avoiding l!
sense, to teach us to run away from a grizzly j/
bear. We act morally, say they, just as we j;
run away from danger, because we have proved | ^
the contrary course to be productive of un- K
pleasantness.
Either answer fails to satisfy, because j>
either is incomplete. The true solution of the !j
problem is found by joining them. We act j<
morally from instinct, but that instinct is itself |?
derived from experience—the experience not Ij
of ourselves only, but of the whole race of js
man. Our cave-haunting ancestor having k
learnt by sharp penalties to refrain from direct |?
violence to his fellow-men, transmits that ex- j>
perience as an unconscious instinct to his p
children, just as a retriever will transmit to k
her puppies the faculties she has acquired, j?
The first men had to learn to live at peace with |>
each other: we, thanks to them, feel but little b
inclination to live otherwise. Habit is not K
April 2, 1880.
second nature—it is nature. What is natural
for us to do, is simply what, for thousands of
years, our ancestors have been in the habit of
doing. Our morality has grown side by side
with our physical conformation, and it has
also developed in like manner with it; for that
morality has sanctioned in times past such
strange marriage customs, such wild justice,
such bloody sacrificial rites, as we shudder
even to record. And what now seems a God-
given instinct for good is the hard-won teach¬
ing of experience, handed down from unheeding
generation to generation as a legacy, more
precious than silver, more durable than lands,
which age cannot impair, nor violence take
away.
In like manner there are those who assert of
the geometrical sense, that we believe that two
straight lines cannot enclose a space, because
we cannot believe otherwise, because our minds
were originally so formed as to admit of no
other conception. There are others who
maintain that we believe such axioms only
because we have never discovered any in¬
stance to contradict them, never having at any
time or anywhere seen two straight hedges
surround a field, or two straight “walls a
prison make.” Here again, we can see that
whilst it is true to say that men’s minds are
now so constituted as to be unable to conceive
the contrary of these geometrical axioms, that
constitution is itself the product of experience,
a compendium of all the wisdom of our an¬
cestors. And the belief that two straight
lines cannot enclose a space would seem to be
founded on just the same evidence, and to be
no more necessarily and absolutely true, than
the belief that the sun will rise to-morrow.
However probable, either is incapable of proof.
And strange to say the discoveries of the last
few years have gone far to disprove the former
belief, once held to be a “ necessary ” truth,
founded in the very nature of things. It has
been shown that there may be space, possibly
that this very universe in which we live is
of such a nature, that all lines drawn in it
must be curved, while to our senses straight j
as the path of a steamer to New York we know
by our reason only to be an arc of a large
circle. In such space there could be more
than one straight line drawn between two
points * of two straight lines parallel to each
other, one might be parallel and the other not,
to a third straight line; the three angles of a
triangle might be greater or less than two
right angles. Our so-called necessary con¬
ceptions are on this view purely adventitious;
161
April 2, 1880. THE S P I
we do not even know whether or not they
correspond to the actual universe in which we
live ; if they do so correspond, it is by a
happy accident.
There are two points to be noticed here :
first, that the dictates of the moral or geo¬
metrical sense have just the validity which is
conferred on them by the whole of human ex¬
perience,—this much and no more. We learn,
also, that though these instincts may be
proved to be in any particular instance in¬
adequate or misleading, it is still almost
impossible to disobey them. It is sometimes
justifiable or necessary to kill a man in cold
blood, but no one can do such a deed without
revolting against his whole moral nature.
Few men, I imagine, perhaps not even Lobat-
chewsky himself, though he may prove it to be
true, believe that if I wanted to get from here
to the other end of this room, I could ac¬
complish my object by walking away in the
opposite direction through the void of space.
How the scientific sense is strictly comparable
to these other intuitions, in so far as it is an
organised register of all past experience. It
is Hume’s law of evidence written in the fleshy
tablets of the brain. Or to put it the
other way, Hume’s law, that no evidence is
sufficient to prove a miracle, is not a logical,
but a psychological law. His assertion simply
amounts to this : “ the conformation of my brain
is perfect, that of yours is imperfect. I find
that I can’t believe in miracles : you, who say
that you can, ought not to : ” just as a parent
may tell a child that he must not tell a lie,
because it is wrong to do so. This explains
how it is that belief appears not to depend
upon the rules of logic. It does indeed so
depend, but in its syllogism the conclusion is
drawn from premises which are but half stated,
or not stated at all. Ask a well-educated,
well-born Englishman, why he believes the
Earth to go round the Sun, and not vice
versa. He will probably answer, because he
was told so as a child, and has since repeatedly
heard the statement on indisputable authority.
He may go on to say that he believes it,
because he can prove it from his knowledge
of celestial mechanics ; but these are only sub¬
sidiary reasons for his belief; the true premises
are not stated. He believes in it, because it
was fully demonstrated to his ancestor in the
15th, or assuming him to have been a little
behind his age, the 16th century, and the
descendants of that ancestor in each successive
generation have gone on believing it ever
since.
RITUALIST.
Belief, then, is not a specific act, but a state.
<1 A man may even believe a thing without
h knowing it, as another man may talk prose
>| all his life without knowing it. Belief may be
Sj compared to a physiological function. A man
<1 can no more believe a statement by mere act
q of will, than he can by a similar act of will
>| enable his liver to secrete gastric juice, or his
>1 eye to perceive four primary colours. But
<| the moral intuitions differ but slightly in men of
q the same race and so presumably do the
)l geometrical. This scientific sense, however,
q is found in every stage of developement
<| amongst individuals similarly situated. And
/I as Aristotle said that the man over whom the
> social instincts had so little influence that he
si could bear to live alone, must be either an
q ape or an angel, so it would seem that he in
<j whom the intellectual intuitions are so feebly
)j developed that he can believe in space of a
s| constant curvature, or in spirits communicating
s| with men, must be one of two things, a philoso-
?j pher or a fool. For whilst most men inherit so
q much of their intellectual furniture from their
si fathers, that they have very little room left
q for any fresh acquisitions of their own, there
?| are others whose inheritance is of such a poor
>1 description that it would have been almost
si better for them to have been cut off with a
(| shilling figuratively speaking,had that been pos-
?! Bible. But it is not possible, for this species of
>| property is of all the most strictly entailed.
s| And there are yet others, who entering upon
q a well furnished house, enlarge and add to it
?j richly themselves. Spiritualists hold that the
> ordinary man of science belongs to the first
s| of those categories. He has a rich intellectual
q legacy, but not sufficient of the creative
)| faculty to increase his stores, except in the
j| way marked out for him. His mind may be
si compared to a country which has sunk the
si greater part of its wealth in railways, and now
q feels somewhat at a loss for a little circulating
>j capital to go on with. It is perfectly true
>| that you can get from London to Edinburgh
j| much quicker by the Great Horthern than
}| in your private carrriage, and that probably in
>1 ninety-nine cases out of a hundred that is the
)j preferable mode of conveyance. Still the man
11 who never travels but by rail must forego all
>1 acquaintance with out-of-the-way nooks and
I corners, and be content to know no more of
:| his native land than he can see from his
|| carriage windows. Such an one says truly
'| that the facts of Spiritualism possess no
>j interest for him.
(To le Continued.)
162
MESMERISM AND POLITICS.
BY CHRISTIAN REIMERS.
Now that everybody in England is in a
state of excitement about the elections, it
may be interesting to make known that in
Germany, according to a statement in the
Cologne 'Gazette of last Tuesday week, Baron
Hofmann is threatened with losing his seat in
the Legislature by his infringement of the dig¬
nity of a statesman, in mounting the platform
of the mesmerist Hansen, at a semi-public
meeting, when he passed u under influence,”
and in the biological state was made to per¬
form all kinds of antics. His political enemies
do not suggest that he is an impostor, but that
such a high dignitary should be above the reach
of occult powers. The Gazette adds that
Baron Hofmann stands so high that he will
override this storm, as he has overriden others
before it.
6, Manor Villas, Richmond, Surrey.
A POWERFUL MEDIUM.
BY CHRISTIAN REIMERS.
The ring test and the chair test have so
often been recorded, that I would not take up
the pen to describe another of these demonstra¬
tions, but that a singular combination of both
of them, combined with other signs of power,
induces me to place a brief report before your
readers. Mr, James Husk was the only
medium on this occasion, at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit Street, London, on the 27th inst. After
the occurrence of sundry known phenomena,
a kind of suspension of the power seemed to
denote the drawing to a close of the seance,
when the groaning and shuddering of the
medium signalised another start. The chair
of my neighbour was drawn from under him
in the dark; a gentle shuffling here and there,
without the slightest mixture of violence,
accompanied the increasingly heavy breathing
and groaning of the medium, who was suddenly
placed on the table with his chair while both
his hands were held. Another gentle u pull ”
of force, and all was quiet; then four u taps”
signalled for a light. We found the medium
on his chair, seated on the table, the iron ring
on the arm of his neighbour, Mr. Dalton,
whose wrist also passed through the rail of the
chair, which lay across the table. The hands of
both neighbours of the medium had never for
a moment separated from those of the medium.
Richmond, Surrey, March 30th, 1880. *
Mrs. Woodforde asks us to announce that Mr.
Husk’s seances at 4 Keppel Street, Russell Square,
London, will henceforth be held on Tuesday evenings.
The Wednesday evening sittings will be discontinued.
April 2, 1880
sj SUNDAY MEETINGS.
<| On Sunday mornings at eleven o’clock, a Spiritual-
Si istic conference is held regularly at the Goswell Hall,
>r Goswell Road, London. Last Sunday morning, at one
(j portion of the proceedings, the question of vegetarian-
Sj ism and of the influence of food upon the body, was
)j considered. Mr. J. J. Morse pointed out that not a
<i few of the greatest men of intellect and genius in past
S| times, had been meat eaters, and indulged in wine and
/I alcoholic stimulants. Moreover, he believed that
si the Thugs in India, who passed much of their time in
Si committing stealthy murders of innocent people, were
( j pronounced vegetarians, so were not stimulated by the
Sj alleged bloodthirsty effects of a meat diet. He ad-
vanced this side of the question in fairness, to show
sj that he was not a fanatic; as a matter of fact he ab*
Si stained altogether from alcoholic stimulants, and ate
d but little meat. Mr. Stephens said that meat-eating
sj increased the lower and the animal propensities, and
Sj that the higher developement of the man would be
1 advanced by the use of vegetarian diet. The present
si societary system of forcing people into marriage from
Si low motives, instead of natural affinity and affection,
c j caused numbers of couples to drag through life together
Si in misery ; they were thus “coupled-up ” anyhow, but
Sj not married, and the happiness of the individuals and
sj the well-being of the race were deteriorated in
Si consequence. Mr. Yates said that in the New
( j Zealand gold mines he had worked hard on vegetarian
Sj diet and found it amply sufficient to sustain his bodily
Sj powers. Mr. King advocated the use and not the
<j abuse of everything, meat included. Mr. W. Wallace
Si said that he did not believe that an animal existed
Sj which lived entirely on vegetables. If they would
si only watch an ox feeding in the early morning while
Sj the dew was on the grass, they would be surprised at
Sj the quantity of slugs, frogs, grasshoppers, and toads,
(j devoured by the supposed vegetarian beast. Mr.
Sj Towns said that he had seen cows sniffing, and avoid-
Sj ing eating toads and frogs. Mr. Harrison wished to
sj know on whom the moral responsibility rested of the
Sj animal diet of carnivorous plants, which did not seem
<j to be very stupid, since some of them, like Venus's fly-
)i trap, would catch insects. Were they morally depraved
?j and would the Vegetarian Society do anything to
Sj reclaim them ? Mr. W. Mackenzie said that he had
Si once been a herd-boy, and tended forty cows; thirty-
?j nine of them avoided snails and frogs, but one of them,
sj a depraved individual, would eat both with avidity.
Sj Mr. Yates said that the sheep disease, known as “ the
Sj fluke,” had been traced by scientific men to the eating
sj of snails by the animals. Shortly afterwards the
S j meeting broke up.
sj - ■ -o 
S i Mr. Harrison Green is exerting himself to work up
)j local enterprise to construct a harbour of refuge on a
s dangerous part of the Yorkshire coast, at Filey, and
Sj has been making himself so popular that he will
c j shortly be created a magistrate of that town.
Sj Next Sunday morning and evening, services in com-
'j memoration of the thirty-second anniversary of the
)j advent of Modern Spiritualism, will be held at the
>j Stein way Hall, Lower Seymour Street, Portman
:i Square, London.
Sj Mr. F. 0. Matthews, who possesses remarkable clair-
:j voyant powers, has been arrested at Keighley on a
■>j charge of “ fortune-telling,” and the case ought to be
Si carefully watched by Spiritualists, to see that no attempts
l\ are made to invoke the law to prevent scientific research
Sj into the phenomena of psychology, or personal study
c j thereof.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apkil 2, 1880. THE SP
MESMERISM AND STATUYOLENCE.
Permit a transatlantic reader to express his
gratification at your frequent editorial exhorta¬
tions in reference to the necessity of a more
thorough study of Mesmerism and allied sub¬
jects; also to acknowledge a deep sense of
indebtedness to Mr. Atkinson’s pithy articles,
which so clearly state the crucial psychological
problems which his fruitful experience has
suggested.
It is greatly to be regretted that in the
abundance of Spiritualistic literature we have
had so little searching psychological criticism
and investigation. We have been so elated
by the discovery of the spirit-world, and so in¬
tent upon the study of its topography and
social arrangements, that we have been in dan¬
ger of looking upon Mesmerism as an embryotic
and inferior sort of Spiritualism, properly in¬
cluded in it, and only to be explained by it.
Meanwhile, the captious outsider has saved
himself much trouble of thinking by deftly
using the terms as convertible, making each,
in turn, explain and annihilate the other.
Mesmerism has been stigmatized as something
inevitably leading to Spiritualism, while such
Spiritualistic phenomena as could not possibly
be classified as trickery have been dismissed,
off-hand, as 11 nothing but Mesmerism.”
This process of the absorption of Mesmerism
into Spiritualism (which has perhaps taken
place to a greater extent in America than in
England) is very like Jonah swallowing the
whale ; for the mesmeric phenomena, rightly
viewed, present the broad, general question of
the power of spirit upon spirit, and spirit upon
matter—of which question the investigation of
the process by which disembodied spirits con¬
trol mind and matter is, essentially, but a
particular variation, and, as The Spiritualist
aptly observes (Ho. 354, page 265), “ Ho great
advance can be made in Spiritualism without
re-examining, by the light of present knowledge,
the older phenomena of Mesmerism; and compe¬
tent and critical men should undertake the work. ’ ’
It being admitted, then, that there is a crying
necessity for the rehabilitation of Mesmerism,
and a more accurate investigation of the pheno¬
mena of the trance, in order to clear-up certain
dark places in Spiritualistic phenomena, I pur¬
pose to say a few words as to what has been
done and is being done on this side of the
Atlantic in the direction indicated.
And allow me to prophesy, at the outset,
that that method of psychological investigation
which will most advantage Spiritualism (as
well as prove most helpful to humanity
RITUALIST. 168
jVj generally) is that which has been denominated
l< Statuvolence — a method considered by some
|q as a mere phase of Mesmerism, while its author
;/ claims it to be a thing inclusive of, and, in a
m philosophical sense, directly antagonistic to
K| Mesmerism—a new explanation of the same
I?I subject matter, superseding and negativing all
|)j previous explanations.
Statuvolence (or Statuvolism) means, of
K course, a state produced by the will; and the
! j implication of the term is that it is a state self-
| produced, and not the result of the action of
|Sj the will of another. On the hypothesis (which
K! may be entirely erroneous) that you have had
K | no particular account of this matter in Eng-
|>| land, I will venture to give you a short
jsj general sketch of the subject, reserving for
k| some future time a discussion of Statuvolence
i? with reference to the elucidation of the
j>| mysteries of trance-mediumship, the advance-
Ki ment of the art of self-healing and the higher
K| education of the will.
In the statement of what Statuvolence is
pj and what it claims to be, it will be desirable
|s for purposes of comparison, to refer briefly to
Kj previous theories of the trance-state and the
|?I different methods of producing it.
According to the original Mesmerists the
I trance was produced by means of a universal
iq fluid, directed by the will of the operator. To
|>| the magic power of this controlling will the
l)| subject was supposed to be, for the time being,
I absolutely enslaved; liberty being restored
|cj only at the stage of independent clairvoyance,
I? The early English experimenters did not
|)| materially vary the French methods, though
js they showed their lack of full acceptance of
Kj the improved theory of animal magnetism by
|?| substituting for that term the non-committal
iS word 11 Mesmerism.” To be sure, when, twenty
| j years later, Baron Beichenbach’s researches in
! | reference to the od-force seemed to corroborate
6\ and elucidate Mesmer’s cruder conception,
Kj Prof. Gregory and other writers re-adopted the
|q phrase u Animal Magnetism,” and the term
j^j has to some extent regained a footing. It is,
|>j nevertheless, true that the attempt to combine
iSj the original idea of Mesmer with more recent
j \ j notions of odyllic and electric forces, has brought
! j forth some of the most absurd theories extant—
j>j systems of “ Electro-biology,” and “ Electro-
jsj psychology,” fruitful in magnetic coins and
jcj electro-magnetic discs, composed of mineral
j)j substances so scientifically arranged that the
Kj subject who faithfully gazed thereat soon suc-
| j cumbed to the occult influence, and fell into a
I! state of somnolence, willy-nilly.
J64
THE SPIKITUALIST.
April 2, 1880.
Dr. Braid was canny Scotchman enough to |S
see that the cause of trance, when ostensibly K
produced by such means as these, lay not in
the occult virtue of the magnetic disc, but in \)
the fixed attention of the subject, and he K
showed conclusively by his experiments that K
the trance could be produced by a “ double k
internal and upward squint.” Although the j>
doctor and sceptical scientists who have ]S
adopted his term “Hypnotism” in dealing K
with this subject, may have gone too far in j?
assuming that his experiments proved, or ten- j>
ded to prove, that subjects had never been en- K
tranced by the mesmeric effect of passes, but K
only by the expectant contemplation of those |?
monotonous muscular motions of the operator, I)
yet the hypnotic experiments did a real service jS
to psychological science by showing that the |<
concentration of the subject’s mind upon some- .K
thing outside of himself was just as effective as 6
the concentration of something outside of him- j>
self upon the subject’s mind—showing, at least, j<
that the rule was one which worked both ways, k
Statuvolence goes still farther. It abjures 1)
all effects claimed to be produced by the will |S
of the operator, rejects as unnecessary all gaz- |<
log at external objects, and bases itself upon R
the proposition that the will of the subject (the 6
term “ will ” being understood as comprehend- |>
ing the various mental attitudes of desire, fear, K
expectancy, imagination, faith, etc.) is all-suf- * |(
ficient for the production of the phenomena, I?
and that, in spite of the mass of testimony to j>
the contrary, they never have been produced |s
by any other agency. The last statement is j?
certainly a bold one, and challenges criticism, j>
but, whether true or untrue, it is evident that |s
a method the first postulate of which is the |<
supremacy of the subject’s will at all stages of k
the process of entering the trance, will develop j>
higher phenomena than that method which j;
concedes so much to the will of the operator. |s
Yiewed in this aspect, the trance is no longer K
a temporary mental enslavement, the deplor- w
able consequences of which have been darkly j>
pictured in various popular novels of the day, K
and sometimes, though more rarely, encoun- k
tered in practical experiments, the troubles of j>
your Nova Scotia correspondent, recounted in \)
the number for Feb. 18, constituting a case in |s
point. Indeed, Statuvolence is not a process K
to be blindly submitted to, but an art to be |?
learned, and the adept operator is no longer a j>
magician, but only a teacher.
But the reader who has followed me thus |<
far may desire to know something about the P
author of this system, his method of instruction, j)
and the phenomena produced thereby, so I will
give some details.
Dr. William Baker Fahnestock, the origin¬
ator of the Statuvolic idea, is a resident of the
city of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and is now
seventy-five years of age. He is a thoroughly
educated and experienced physician, as well
as a mineralogist, botanist and inventor. He
began to experiment in the line of animal
magnetism about 1840. His first subject was
a boy, who, after becoming entranced, ran all
over the house, in spite of the operator’s efforts
by will and voice to prevent him. This first
experience caused him to doubt the supreme
efficacy of the mesmerist’s will, and further
investigation led to the belief that the cause
of the phenomena was entirely in the ex¬
pectancy, faith or will of the subject. He
soon began to teach this doctrine to his sub¬
jects, and yet met with increasing success.
In a letter to a Philadelphia paper in 1843,
he repeated that over three hundred persons had
entered the state under his tuition. In 1843 he
wrote his interesting and valuable work entitled
Artificial Somnambulism, but did not publish
it until 1869. In 1871 a new edition was
published (which is still in circulation), the
title being amended so as to read, Statuvolism,
or Artificial Somnambulism, hitherto called
Mesmerism. The matter of the book remained
substantially unchanged. He expresses his
theory in a nutshell, on page 61, as follows :
“ I have instituted many experiments to
determine the cause of this condition, and all
the facts gathered go to prove that the state
can be entered by an act of the subject’s own
will, or can be induced by the belief (on the
part of the subject), that another person has
the power of throwing him into it.”
In what I have to say of Dr. Fahnestock’s
method, I speak largely from personal ob¬
servation.
He sits down with the subject, without
physical contact, and directs him to let the
body remain in a perfectly relaxed condition
as far as possible, close the eyes, and fix the
mind on some familiar scene at a distance, which
it is particularly pleasant to revive in imagin¬
ation. Anxiety must be avoided. There must
be no straining effort of vision, as when one
attempts to discern a distant object with the
external eye, but the subject must imagine
himself calmly scrutinising the object in all
its details, as if it were immediately before him.
The doctor talks to the subject from time to
time, exhorting him to forget himself and his
surroundings, and keep his mind fixed on the
April 2, 1880.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
165
distant place. As soon as the subject sees, or
fancies he sees anything, he mentions it, and
is told to grasp it fully, and observe its details.
I am giving a very rough sketch of a method
which is yaried greatly in its application to
particular cases; but the fundamental idea is
that it is the mind that sees and feels, and if
the mind can be sufficiently abstracted from
its immediate surroundings, it can just as well
see to the planet Jupiter, as into the next
room. The spirit world, as he expresses it, is
an Eternal Here.
Although the ultimate object, in the case of
a diseased subject, is not the devolopement of
clairvoyance, the same method is pursued, as
being the best means of getting the subject
outside of himself. When the state is fully
entered (and animal magnetisers would be sur¬
prised to see how large a percentage of suc¬
cesses there are) and clairvoyance is developed,
however imperfectly, the next step is to teach
the subject—whose physical frame has prob¬
ably by that time assumed cataleptic rigidity
—that the mind has, in this superior condition,
absolute power over the bodily sensations, and
can feel or not, as desired, and that any resolu¬
tion formed in the trance has a supreme effect
on the outer life. For example, if it is desired
to leave any part of the body in the cataleptic
state, in order that nature may have a chance
to heal it without nervous irritation, the re¬
solution so to do produces the required effect;
and the resolution to feel well, to be well, to
forget your disease, produces an effect exactly
proportioned to the firmness and faith with
which the resolution is formed. Everything
depends on the will of the subject; the operator
can only teach and suggest. So, too, the
memory of the occurrences of the trance-state
is carried into the outer life or not, just as
may be desired and willed.
But the most wonderful, as well as most
practical, developement of Statuvolence is the
power to deprive any part of sensation in the
waking state, when desired for the prevention
or annihilation of pain. The method of at¬
taining this power is peculiar, and not easily
explicable. The subject is directed to awaken
the head first, leaving the body cataleptic.
Then by an effort of will an arm, or any other
part, can be restored to feeling, and then in¬
stantly brought back to the cataleptic state.
After this double process has been gone
through with three or four times in as many
minutes, the subject acquires the knack of
doing it, and repeated practice soon renders
him able to throw any part of the body into
|j| the “ condition,” as the doctor calls it, instan-
| )| taneously. The value of this power to suffering
hj humanity cannot be computed.
I have been betrayed into saying so much
| that I forbear to give any of the many in-
|5 teresting cases illustrating Statuvolence, of
jsj which I have personal knowledge or authentic
|<| information. I will report some of them in
|?j the future, if I have any assurance that this
|;| phase of psychology is new or interesting to
hj your readers. Meanwhile it may not be amiss
|(! to say that I have verified and supplemented
|)| Dr. Fahnestock’s investigations by such ex-
I)! periments upon subjects of my own as I have
| j had opportunity and leisure to make; hoping
j?j thereby to help, if ever so feebly, to bring
j;j about the consummation of a recent (albeit
I Si anti-Spirilualistic) prophesy, to wit, that u In
Kj the twentieth century the true philosophy of
|?j trance and kindred phenomena of the nervous
>1 system will be taught in all our schools.”
F. P. T.
Towanda, Bradford Co., Pennsylvania, March. 18, 1880.
A SEANCE IN NEWCASTLE.
' I yesterday morning attended the usual seance held
(i for form manifestations in the rooms of the Newcastle
>| Spiritual Evidence Society. Thirty persons were pre-
ci sent, seated in circular form around the closet in which
si Miss Wood was seated, the door of which was effectually
>! fastened from the outside by two screws.
<| A figure very similar in height to the medium shortly
)j appeared at the aperture of the curtains, which were
hanging in front of the cabinet, and presently it ran
<; across the room to Mr. Matthews, who escorted it to
)j several of the sitters, with whom it shook hands and
< i then retired to the inner side of the curtains. A second
Si figure, decidedly taller in stature, then appeared,
and quietly and gracefully approached Mr. Matthews,
n who accompanied it also around the room, and
Si then for purposes of measurement, it stood with
)i its back to the back of Mr. Matthews and appeared
(I to be taller than Miss Wood. It did not however
Si appear to care to comply any farther with our
j| wishes, for on asking it to be placed by the side
Si of a young lady who was taller than the medium,
)j it instantly retired to the inner side of the curtains, and
<i knocked out that it “ didn’t care for such comparisons.”
Si Very shortly after, however, the little form which usually
/: appears at these stances, came out into the centre of the
Si circle, and after most of the sitters had obtained the
$j customary shake of the hands, I asked the little figure
)j if, while it was outside and in view, it would permit
Si Mr. Matthews to feel if the closet door was still fastened.
)i It at first strenuously objected and then simulating
)i sounds as if it were crying and sobbing, it was supposed
Sj we had “grieved the spirit.” I had no such feeling
)! myself, as the subsequent development of the phenomena
?! made clear. The little figure called me to it, and while
Si kneeling at its feet, it expressed its apparent indignation
>i by voice and gesture, much I dare say to the joy and
<1 sorrow of some and amusement of others in the circle,
S and all the while it was quietly handing me, for a child,
)| an orange, it had obtained from one of the sitters. Mr.
sj Matthews was permitted to feel, and he declared the
) j door of the closet was still fastened, on which I requested
166
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 2, 1880.
the little figure, if it would, without retiring behind the
curtains, to withdraw itself from our view, as such a
phenomenon would be more interesting and instructive
to the entire circle.
Still grumbling and protesting, it subsequently pro.
mised it would try; and after speaking to a few ladies
who were among us, it seated itself on a chair placed
about three feet from the curtains. It was to the touch
a dense and palpable form, draped in white robes, of
which there seemed to be no lack, and within a few
minutes it gradually but surely withdrew itself from
our view, and no current or direction of the disappearance
could be determined or detected.
In so far as one can rely on the sense of sight, viewing
this phenomenon from different points of view simulta¬
neously, that dense figure, with its superabundance of
white drapery, never retired behind the curtains, but
appeared to become invisible, much in the same way
that the disappearance of the snow-flake impresses the
observer.
After sitting a little longer a columnar mass of white
substance appeared at the aperture of the curtains, un¬
screwed the closet door, when the medium seated in the
arm chair was brought out into the circle, shaded by
the curtain, and with the columnar mass of white stand¬
ing by her side.
John Moui,d.
12, St. Thomas Crescent, Newcastle-on-Tyne, 29th March, 1880.
A PROSECUTION OF A MEDIUM.
The following circular has been issued, under the
title of “ An Appeal to English Spiritualists ” :—
It is my painful duty to inform you that on the 23rd
inst., Mr. F. 0. Matthews, clairvoyant-medium, was
apprehended on a warrant issued at Keighley, upon
two charges, viz., that of “Fortune Telling,*’ and
“ Using subtle means and craft, thereby defrauding
certain of her Majesty’s, subjects.” After having been
imprisoned all night, at three p.m. the following day he
was formally charged with this offence. Owing, how¬
ever, to the overwhelming evidence as to his private and
public character, bail was granted in sureties amounting
to £110. Thus the case stands. The trial will take
place on Friday, April 2nd, when counsel will be
necessary to act in his defence, and this appeal is made
to induce a practical expression of your sympathy on
his behalf. Briefly stated, the mediumship possessed
by this gentleman is clairvoyance of a superior order.
Standing on a platform he publicly demonstrates his
power by describing spirit-friends present, the relation¬
ship to persons in the hall, personal incidents relating
thereto, manner of death, &c., &c. The whole forming
a practical illustration that friends who have passed the
change called death, yet live.
The public career of Mr. F. 0. Matthews in England
since last Grood-Friday, on which occasion he made his
dehit on the platform of the Newcastle Society, is too
well known to need comment. His private correspond¬
ence also testifies to the great success achieved amongst
our transatlantic cousins. During the last six months
he has had crowded meetings in Yorkshire, creating
intense interest in all classes of society by his truthful
descriptions of scenes which rise before him..
The present case is one of great importance, since it
is of interest to every Spiritualist, and must demand
the attention of all in establishing the public movement
by defending the media in connection therewith. None
are more severe to impostors than Spiritualists are, but
their appreciation of well-tried media should be shown
in ample protection. Clairvoyance forms an important
<
feature in Spiritualism, and should the case be decided
against him, every clairvoyant throughout the country
will be liable to arrest on a similar charge; hence the
need of your assistance in providing efficient counsel.
It is of more than local importance. Having stated the
case, I leave the matter in your hands, with full con¬
fidence as to the results.
Subscriptions to the Defence Fund will be thankfully
received and acknowledged by Mr. Clapham, 39, Devon¬
shire Street, or Mr. A. Morrell, the Public Baths,
Keighley.
Chas. Poole, Acting Secretary (pro tem.J
Yorkshire District Committee of Spiritualists.
Bradford, March 26th, 1880.
THE BRAIN AND ORGANS OF SENSE.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, E.G.S., AUTHOR OF “LETTERS TO
MISS MARTINEAU.”
I wish to correct, or rather inform, Mr.
Massey on an important matter of fact. I am
sorry to intrude with statements not quite
in accord with others, hut it seems a pity that
my experience should be thrown away.
Mr. Massey says, “It seems impossible to
suppose that the material brain, to which the
nerves of touch could transmit no message,
was nevertheless affected by the auditory nerve,
(the case not being one of local paralysis),” and
Mr. Massey supposes the psychic body (what¬
ever that may be) to be influenced by the air,
the body notwithstanding, that is as stated in
the case related in The Spiritualist of March
19th, bearing reference to some cases re¬
corded by Dr. George Wyld some time past,
of which I have no recollection. Now in my
mesmeric experience, my patients, as a very
common fact, would be totally insensible to
pain, and yet would be observing with the
eyes open, and continuing to converse all the
same. It seems that under mesmeric influence
the extremities, the more outer surface of
the body, and the feeling thereof, are the
first to become insensible, as with a dying per¬
son. The brain being the last organ to become
deadened, people have supposed it to be an
evidence of the independent life of a “psychic
body ” or soul, theological and metaphysical
notions overruling the simple and obvious ex¬
planations of physiology.
The question of thought-transfer, when all
the senses are closed or deadened, is another
matter on which I trust that Professor Barrett
will attain more evidence, and in due course
inform us of the results of his enquiries, that is,
after the correlated instances, carefully arranged
and compared, make a satisfactory induction
possible.
In respect to hearing, I may note that sound
is received by other channels than the ear. A
watch put in the mouth is not heard to tick
April 2, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
167
until the teeth are closed upon it. But this
effect may not be wholly different from putting
the poker to the tea kettle to hear it boil, by
establishing a solid and better medium of sound
than the air. It has occurred to me to try
another experiment. I close my ears with my
fingers so that I cannot hear the slightest
sound; but, the moment I lay my forehead
upon my watch, I hear the ticking distinctly.
Miss Martineau, who was forced to use an ear
trumpet, as she was so very deaf, told me that
she heard a musical box with oyerpowering
distinctness when it was placed on her head,
while unable to hear any but confused sounds
from it directly through the ear. The harder
I press upon the case, the better I hear the
watch; and this reminds me of my somnambule,
who saw more distinctly by pressing upon the
eye, which I have found to be the case with
others. It is recorded that a child subject to
fits could, during their continuance, only hear
by the stomach being touched and the voice
directed to that part. Sir C. Bell relates a
case of a man who was insensible to pain from
pressure or otherwise, who yet could feel inside
his stomach by applying pressure to the out¬
side. In mesmerism, it is common to find a
patient sensible to internal though not to ex¬
ternal pain, sensitive to a pain of the mes-
meriser, but not of his own. The internal
parts, the last to lose sensibility, are those on
which life depends. These facts may be in¬
teresting to Mr. Massey.
We have evidence that much of the apparatus
of the ear may be removed without impairing
hearing, also that <c a patient having the pupil
immovable sees well enough, and that persons
who have had the lens removed for cataract still
see sufficiently well.” It appears that the
sense of smell may exist without the olfactory
nerve. But more evidence of the precise cir¬
cumstances attending such mutilations and
absent organs will be acceptable.
JBoulogne-Bur-Mer, March 30th, 1880.
[Greai freedom is given to correspondents who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; copies
should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.^
DR. MONOK.
Sir,—I feel, as Secretary of the Monck Testimonial
Fund, that our thanks to you and the Spiritual press
generally, have been too tardy, But I now beg in the
name of the Committee to return you our best thanks
for your great kindness and I must add, generosity, in
receiving the lengthy acknowledgments we have had
the pleasure of making to the numerous friends who
have subscribed to this Testimonial.
It seems that I am unable yet to announce the close
of the subscription list:—for upon my intimation that
another £100 is yet required in order to complete the
good work the Committee have undertaken,—viz.: to
place Dr. Monck in such a position, by the utilization
of his spirit-given inventions, as to enable him to be in
a position to place his unrivalled mediumship at the
service of Spiritualists gratuitously, I am pelted with
letters from all sides offering to extend their sub¬
scriptions and to render the work complete.
I have received several sums towards this final object;
and I shall feel grateful if you will enable me through
your columns, once more to say that the aim of the com¬
mittee needs some £50 more from true hearts to render
effective and completely successful the work they have
undertaken. The inventions are not in nubibus, but are
accepted as commercial realities, and as likely to prove
permanent sources of income. Shall we spoil the ship
for a halfpennyworth of tar ?
I feel sure I have only to appeal most earnestly for
complete success to attain it. We want a few pounds
more, from all who can well afford it, to place Dr.
Monck’s mediumship at their service. Shall we appeal
in vain ?
Easter time tells of a greater resurrection:—Shall
there not be also among all our liberal donors a resur¬
rection of the heart ?
Morell Theobald, Hon. Sec. to the Fund.
62, Granville Park, Blackheath.
CLAIRVOYANCE.
Sir,—An eminent dissenting minister of this town
wishing to be convinced of the truth of clairvoyance,
offers a Five Pound Note and expenses paid to anyone
who will read the number of the said bank note, it
being enclosed without being doubled, in a blank
envelope. If you should know anyone who is able
and willing to accomplish this, you would much oblige
by sending his address to me, as above, or else by
inserting this offer in your paper.
This is a perfectly bona fide offer, and will be given
in the minister’s own handwriting, if desired, he being
most anxious to settle the question in his own mind.
H. Swan.
Owlerton, near Sheffield.
Mesmerism in Brixton.-—A capital entertainment in
connection with the Brixton Coffee Palace, was given
at the Angell Town Institute by Professor S. R.
Redman, of Brixton Hill, a gentleman who has at¬
tained some considerable notoriety as a mesmerist of
no mean order. The lecture commenced with a short
history of mesmerism, followed by a series of experi¬
ments upon some of the audience, who voluntarily
submitted themselves. Many of the experiments were
interesting, illustrating as they did the marvellous
command over the mind and body a mesmerist seems
to be able to acquire, while no small amount of
laughter was caused by the peculiarities of the subjects
who in the normal state are jocularly disposed. The
introduction of the sham element, too often found at
these meetings, is by Mr. Redman’s plan made next
to impossible, as he invites from his audience all or any
who entertain misgivings to undergo his “passes.”
The lecturer has a pleasing address, and his remarks
and experiments were warmly applauded.—South
London Press.
Ereatum.—In Dr. Wyld’s article published March 12th, page
126, the reference “ Represents the soul in a position of
equipoise,” &o., should be “ O Represents the soul,” &c.
168
THE SPIEI TUALIST.
April 2, 1880.
MESMEEISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
the late 'Wm.'Gregory, M.D., F.lt.S.E.^rq/esaorq/1 Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s,, or 5s. 6d. post tree.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER 11 —First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
--Senses affected—Insensibility to Pein.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep,
CHAPTER HI:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition— Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—^Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retro vision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, Ac., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Stinking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VIMesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr, Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII s-Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX s—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—-Mesmerised Water
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—^Physiological, Therapeutical, Ac.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—^Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X t—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of* Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI s—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—^Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII«—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Oases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—^Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII {—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Oases—^Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV {—Direct Clairvoyance—Canes—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV {—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—^Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI {—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
k
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of. each sex. Bitin subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, • round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Relief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances because
no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week: angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
April 2, 1880,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
Cloth, small Svo, price 3s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. 'White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether ho believes in the
everlasting punushmemt of tinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pncisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C,
False lights and dark spots
in Spiritualism, by Christian Reimers. One
Shilling.
24. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at siancet by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
KESEARCHES IN THE PHENO¬
MENA OF SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.8. The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, Museum-st., W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—-A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for lid; or six copies post free for 6d. 
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENGER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
“ Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, andjudge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12. Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa¬
tion of spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-
strcet, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, dally. Saturdays 2 p.m
to 6 p.m.   
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons
Terms, board and ail included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, ” S. C.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris. 
rpHE BANNER OF LIGHT; the
JL oldest j ournal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor j aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &o. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.C,
Price 8s, 6d. Imperial Svo. Cloth, red edges, Postfree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Richmond,
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life,
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treheme) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life <f Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Dio Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLiy.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38.
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown Svo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academics
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Brandy Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C,
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.’’
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXUI.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
EYUE 8PIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyms, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modem Thought verses Modem Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V:—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modern Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O's made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instmetions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to‘‘drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con¬
sequently irreljgiqps age.
IV
the spiritualist.
April 2, 1880.
Accidental Indigestion
M BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
ENO S FRUITSALT
Erery Trayelling Trunk and Household in the 'World
ought to contain a bottle of
ENO’S PBUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health¬
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
END’S PRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Da. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
tvorld.”
QTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
NATURAL APERIENT.—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value m keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
™DGED, WEARY AND WORN
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de la Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. He is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
m the house.”—M. Beral.
END’S FRUIT SALT.— “Aftersuf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restorcd to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years,—Yours . most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ QUCCESS IN LIFE.’’—Anewin-
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION,—Examine each bottle and, tee the capsule it
marked '‘ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without,you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemisit. Price 2s. 9i. and 4s. (id.
A
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The'.Morning
Post, Graphic, Court!ournal and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals,
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part \.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song oi
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief ot the College of Howling Der
vishes at Constantinople.)—8, The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12 Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “Poor
Old Joe! ”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30. The Con¬
verted Carman.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcham, London, S.E.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in areview nearly a column long, says.—“Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits, a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
Of genial satire which addspiquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most- laughable bits is the Turk’s account oi
how he went to be photographed.”
- The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C,
Price Five Shillings. Post’Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. Theseipoems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free 7jd,; cloth.
Prize Essays.
rpHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
A SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green. •
These Essays won the First and Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOOIKTY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
March, 1880. J [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REYIEW.
A Monthly Magazine.
contents.
The present position and future needs of Spiritualism
in England ; M.A. (Oxon)—Kiddle’s Spiritual Com¬
munications—^Exposures ot Spiritualism; Dr. Nicholls
—Two Views of Spiritualism; M.A. (Oxon)—A Needed
Lesson; Georgina Houghton—Extracts from a Spirit¬
ualist’s diary ; A. M. H. Watts—The last Words of
James Nayler, the Quaker Martyr, 1660—Notes and
Gleanings—Lessons in a School of Life—Victorien
Sardon, the French Dramatist—The Message of Spirit,
nalism to the Criminal—Higher Aspects of Spiritual¬
ism—Poetry—A Psalm of the March Winds; J. T.
Markley.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW: Hay Nisbet & Co., 52, Ropework-lane
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
“Asa dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute re.ality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We
will only say that his descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
CONTENTS.
Mesmeric Phenomena at Spirit Circles   157
A Voice fromLaodicea..     158
The Border-Land between Fact and Myth...... 158
Scientific Men versus Logic !  159
The Origin of the Moral Law...    160
Mesmerism and Politics      ;.  162
A Powerful Medium      162
Sunday Meetings     162
Mesmerism and Statuvolence    163
A Seance in Newcastle ;  165
A Prosecution of a Medium    166
The Brain and Organs of Sense  166
Correspondence:—Dr. Monck  ,....,  167
Clairvoyance     167
Paragraph :—Mesmerism in Brixton   167
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
