Registered as a Newspaper,
joU.^^Si< o$ f'^YdSo^OG^iCS^ ^dis^KCsi.
®|i& fl^tosjjapr OTftiAltr toxflj Spntwalbm xn <&xmt §nlHm*
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON: n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.G. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazlonale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaad't Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty.-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
LONDON: FRIDAY, MAY 24, 1878.
No. 300.—(VOL. XII.—No. 21.)
OTontents.
Occultism and Spiritualism. By Baboo Peary OhandMittra 241
The Psychology of International Character. By J. T.
Markley, Author of Many Thoughts on Many Themes 242
Mental Phenomena 242
Proof Palpable of Immortality   243
Trance and Writing Mediumship:—Anticipation—What
is God?—Watchman, What of the Night? 244
Psychography   246
The Attempt to Lock up Mrs. Weldon in a Madhouse:—
Certificates of her Sanity—Certificate of Dr. James
Belvin—Certificate of Dr. George Wyld—Certificate
of Dr. James Edmunds—A Quotation from Last
Week’s Truth—Certificate of the Nuns of Gisors ... 247
A Oast of a Materialised Spirit Hand. By William Oxley. 248
The “Conservation of Energy” in relation to certain
Views of theTheosophists. By Desmond G. FitzGerald,
M.S.Tel.E     249
Correspondence:—Perplexing Experiences—Mr. and Miss
Dietz—Weighing Materialised Spirits—The Doom of
the Seaforths—War      251
Answers to Correspondents     252
Paragraphs: — Who Makes the Fashions ? 241; Miss
Poyntz’s Matinees, 243; A Superstitions Terrier, 245 ;
Spiritualism and the Newspapers, 246 ; Misrepresenta¬
tions of Spiritualists, 246 ; Spiritualism in Dalston,
246 ; Hackney Psychological Society, 246; Canadian
Necromancers Interrupted, 246 ; General Meeting,
246 ; An Experimental Lecture, 246 ; The Psychological
Society of Great Britain, 247; Mrs. Everitt at Dalston,
247; Spiritualism at Ainsworth, 247 ; A Murderer's
Brain    ... 247
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
nPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey: Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isbam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross -Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law: Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edln.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India) ;
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason: Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
he Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. O. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jsncken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. XOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The'Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia I 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38. Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office days—Tuesdays,
Thursdays, and. Saturdays, from 2 to 4 p.m.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Calendar.
Friday, Hth.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.30p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m,
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday 28th.—Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ House and Offices Committee, at 5.30
p.m.
„ „ Annual General Meeting) of Mem¬
bers, at 6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 28th.—Inquirers’ Stance, at 8 p.m.
Friday, 31st.—^Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Stance, at 7.30 p.m.
JUNE.
Monday, 3rd.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting), at
7.45 p.m. Paper by Mr. W. H. Har¬
rison, on “ Some Recent Experiments
in Weighing Mediums.”
Wednesday, 5th.—Soiree, at 38, Great Russell-street.
Music, Conversation, and Refresh¬
ments. Commence at 7 p.m. Ad¬
mission to members and friends, Is.
each.
Friday, 1th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
BRIXTON PSY CHOLOGrIC AL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, L0UG)HB0R0UG)H-R0AD-N0RTH, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, HON. SbO.
MISS ELLA & MR. FRANK DIETZ
WILL GHVE qr
R JE C 1 T A T I O JST b
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
During April and May, on
Wednesday Afternoons at 3 p.m. (beginning April 10th), and
Saturday Eveninos at 8.15 p.m. (beginning April 13th).
N B.—There will be no recitation May 8th.
Tickets may be had at Mitchell's library, 3 3, Old Bond- street;
Hayes's box office, 199, Regent-street; at the Hall ; or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of fourteen recitations, one and a half guineas each. Single
tickets—Stalls, 3s.; chairs, 2s. ; balcony, Is. 
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.    
Planchette, or the despair of
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerableability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.  :
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.Oj
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes Issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
 FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.'
CONTENTS.
Chapter I The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III ^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—^Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heihert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—^Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cahanis—Coleridge—Bacon—.
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVlI The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New — Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to.
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe — James.
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIli.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-steeet.
The celebrated vocalist and
ORATOR, MRS.M.G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.   
SCARCE AND VALUABLE BOOKS.
(Secondhand.)
The Spiritual Magazine, Vols I. to XIV. (A.d. 1860 to'1873),
£7 10s.
The Celestial Telegraph (Cahagnet), 12s.
From Matter to Spirit QSxa. De Morgan), 10s.
ESSONS in French and Spanish, or English,
to Foreigners. Translations from the above Languages
also undertaken. Address by letter, VIOLA, care of Miss
Burke, 38, Great Russell-etreet, W.O.
Bedroom to let, furnished, with
use of Sitting Room and Piano, with or without Board,
in the home of an old Spiritualist. Three in family. No other
lodgers. Would suit an elderly person, male or female.—
Address T. W., 21, Wingmore-road, White Hart-lane, Tot¬
tenham.
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)-
President.
Alex. Calderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. 'W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North. Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, O. C„ Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Kogers, E. r awson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev, N.
Speer, Stanl.o >e Tempieman, M.D., Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road, S(U‘h Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H„ 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., lateofH.M.S. “Malapar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.Ei
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 84. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.l C.E., Junior United Service Club, SW.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square; W.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6. Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds,
Newbould, Rev. Wi W., 118, Albany-slreet, RegentVpark, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 0, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, ROse-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseftian, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J • H. Andre, Esq, H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Klslingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, WvC.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan deRassim Pacha aBahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, T, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresoretie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britien, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sireet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
, U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery. Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeek, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 24, 1878.
J. L, O’Sullivan- Esq., 30, UpperGloucestdr-place, Dorset-square,
Loncon.N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste', Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edgei Duppas-hill,
Qrcfydqn.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Mbntgomery-piace, Boston; O.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris;
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.’Hallock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgrawe-foad, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road. S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—II. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 28,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
SociedadUspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Ctyef Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and ord^- essential to English Customs. 
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. "W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O.  
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
<fa., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
HE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
UAJMSM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life', 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simfkin, Marshall & Co.
—Graven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper •
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
T’_HEnBANNEF_0irTlGHT7-TRe-ddest
joufnal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner Is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, <&c., <fcc. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
A GENTLEWOMAN, living within two
minutes’ walk of the Crystal Palace Grounds, offers a
comfortable quiet Residence with superior Board to a Lady.
Terms moderate. References exchanged. By letter—H. C.,
care of Charles Lewis, Esq., 7, Jasmine-grove, Penge, S.E.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St, James's-street; and Mr, Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
Mr. (C.,E.. williams,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from’ IS till S. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from' S o’filock for reception of friends.
 Address as above.   
mr. jTwTfletgher,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. W. EGLINTON
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON
 S.W. 
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
 Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature. 
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW; WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.   
CURA TIVE MESMERISM.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER,
(33 years established),
Attends Patients, and may be consulted at his residence daily
from 2 till 5,
10, BERKELEY GARDENS, CAMPDEN HILL, KEN¬
SINGTON.
Private Lessons in the art of Mesmerising. His Pamphlet
on “ Curative Mesmerism," 7th Edition, price Is.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at th eir homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment. 
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM¬
PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM’. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.C.
NNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
JAMES MALTBY, ~
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Heb Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces. *
Everything cf the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
Jptptjit tl ntfo Ji|iij$ xS
Volume Twelve. Kumber Twenty-oj<e.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 24th, 1878.
OCCULTISM AND SPIRITUALISM.
BY BABOO PEARY CHARD MIXTRA.
During the Yedic period the Aryas settled on the banks
of the Seraswate, rose in the morning and prayed, u May
the Supreme Ruler, who generates all things, whose luminous
ray is self-existent, who is the sublime cause of light, from
whom worlds receive illumination, be favourable to us!”
They also chanted Gayitri : (f Let us meditate on the
adorable light of the Divine Ruler; may it guide our
intellects.” In each family there were prayers offered three
times a day—once in the morning, once in the afternoon,
and once in the evening. There was no priest originally, no
caste, no temple, no image of God. God was worshipped
in the soul. The will-force went on increasing. The
mesmerism of prayer, the mesmerism of insulation, and the
mesmerism of the yogi—or the suppression of the vital life
—could not but intensify the psychic power as this force
was developed, it illuminated the brain. What was dark
was now bright. This is the spiritual state—the state of
Nirvana. In this state Sakya Muni “held the divine eye, by
the aid of which he could see all things within the space of
the infinite worlds, and he received the knowledge that un¬
folds the causes of the ever-recurring circle of existence.”
Occultism and Spiritualism both aim at the will force.
These two sciences engaged the attention of my countrymen,
of which there are proofs in the Darsanas. Occultism is
partial Spiritualism. The will force is in the subtle body,
-or tinga sarira or sucskma sarira, which lives after the
natural body dies. It is composed of “ subtle particles, rudi¬
ments, or atoms denominated Tanmatra; perceptible to
beings of a superior order,” or who are in the spiritual state.
Sankhya philosophy says: “ Power is eightfold, consist¬
ing in the faculty of shrinking into a minute form, to which
everything is pervious, or enlarging to a gigantic body, or
assuming levity (rising along a sunbeam to the solar orb),
or possessing unlimited extension of organs (as touching
the moon with the tip of a finger), or irresistible will (for
instance, sinking into the earth as easily as in water), and
dominion over all beings, animate or inanimate ; faculty of
changing the course of nature; ability to accomplish every¬
thing desired.”
Again, in Pataryali’s Yoga, Sastra it is stated that by
intensely profound meditation, “ accompanied by suppression
of breath and restraint of the senses, the yogi acquires the
knowledge of everything past and future, remote or hidden.
He divines the thoughts of others ; gains the strength of an
elephant, the courage of a lion, and the swiftness of the
wind; flies in the air, floats in water, dives into the earth,
contemplates all worlds at one glance, and performs other
strange feats.” This is occultism or will-force developed to
a high degree. But Sankhya says : “ It prepares the soul
for that absorbed contemplation by which the great purpose
of deliverance is to be accomplished.” Again, it says that
the acquisition of “ such power, however transcendent,” is
not sufficient for the attainment of beatitude. Let us see
what the Vedanta says : “ The souls of those holy persons
only, whose devout meditations were addressed to the pure
Brahma himself, take the route described ; not those whose
contemplation was partial or restrictive—they have their
special reward. Those, too, whose knowledge of God was
more perfect, pass immediately, or by any route, to a re¬
union with the Divinity with whom they are identified.”
The Vedanta adds that “ when the knowledge of God is less
perfect, the yogi possesses transcendent powers under which
the pitries, or shades of progenitors, may be called up by a
simple act of the will; and other superhuman faculties may
be similarly exerted. The possessor of these is independent
—subject to no other’s control. He may, at his option, be
invested with one or more bodies, furnished with senses and
I organs, or be encumbered with a corporeal frame. He may
translate himself into other bodies called into other existences
by the mere force of his will, cause instantaneous removal
to any place at his pleasure, and other wondrous perfor¬
mances.” On this point Sankhya and Yedantie are not
divided. The most complete deliverance is the spiritual
state (vidiha mookti), the less complete deliverance is the
Requisition of transcendental powers. The Buddhists have
two kinds of Nirvana. The one with remains and the other
without remains; the latter being the total extinction of the
idea of ego or personality leading to the “ abode of the
blessed.” Like the Aryas the Buddhists have the Siddhi, or
transcendent state, and there are rites for the attainment of
supernatural faculties. The yogi, if not intensely performed,
leads to Occultism or Siddhi, but not in many cases to
Nirvana or Bideha mucti, or the conversion of the life of dark¬
ness into one of brightness. The spiritual world is com¬
posed of spirits of different will-force, but their real occupa¬
tion is to spiritualise those whom they can raise. The means
they employ are not the same in every case. There may be
external manifestations in some cases. In other cases, they
work on the mind, on the sensations and emotions, that the
man may sink into serenity—the first psychic stage. In the
midst of the work of the spirits, we pass from sympathy to
somnambulism, from somnambulism to clairvoyance, from
clairvoyance to Nirvana. In this way mediums are developed
and communication between men and spirits is established.
! We sometimes know a great deal from the exercise of our
■ own spiritual power. But we feel the influence of the spirits
I . on our body and on our mind, and thus recognise them. We
I ; hear their words, and we find that they are working on our
| will-power, that it may be entirely the power of the soul.
What I have stated is from actual spiritual experience.
I For the last sixteen years I have been associated with spirits
| who are not away from me for a moment, and I am not only
| . being spiritualised by them, but I am talking with them as
| I talk with those who are in flesh. My debt of gratitude to
| God is endless for vouchsafing me this light, and I am
| anxious that Spiritualism should be solemnly thought of.
| There are many points which are apparently not clear to every
j mind, but let us endeavour to gain light from each other in
I a fraternal spirit.
Nothing delights me so much as the teaching of the Arya
J philosophy, that God is in the soul or the subtle body as its
i internal light, and that true theosophy is to be in the soul
| state, that being illumined by that light we may make our
I existence a bright one, both here and hereafter. No parti-
| cular code of dthics is necessary ; no creed is required. The
I light within, if seen internally, is our guide, and leads us to
! endless love and wisdom,
j ' Calcutta, April 20th, 1878.
I Who Makes the Fashions?—Almost invariably these <{fashions,”
as they are called, have one distinct motive—to give the milliners
work  It may easily be seen that there can be but very few
| methods of perfect dress in the world, and that if it were necessary
i to invent a new method once every six months (or oftener), these
would soon be exhausted, and recourse would have to be had to all
| sorts of ingenious devices and extravagances to keep up the requisite
novelty. This is what happens in Paris; and as we follow the
11 French with a slavish submission, this is what happens in England,
too. Let but an unholy inspiration enter the head of milliner or
leader of the fashion, and straightway every one must also be in¬
spired in like fashion, or remain in that outer darkness where, for
women, alas,, there is always gnashing of teeth. If our English¬
women could only be persuaded to stand upon their diguity at last, and
say, “ No, we have been dragged at your chariot-wheels long enough ;
we have imitated you till we have ruined our husbands and made
frights of ourselves, and now we will do it no longer. We are sick
of your caprices, and your follies, and your inconsistencies, and we
will try if, for the future, we cannot dress the ladies without y<?ur
; J help.” This is what we should like to hear our countrywomen say
and stand to.—Piccadilly.
242 THE SPIRITUALIST. May 24, 1878.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF INTERNATIONAL CHARACTER. |
BY J. T. MAKKLEY, AUTHOR OF “ MANY THOUGHTS ON MANY THEMES.”
Man is distinguished by national, as well as by individual I
types of character. This fact is supported by experimental |
observation, and the student especially devoted to phreno- j
physiological research can determine, with success, the finer j
shadings of disposition. In a less pretentious degree we j
may all speak out upon the question. Let us begin at home. I
The Englishman to us—and, of course, we lean a little to i
our kindred—is pre-eminent in all the walks of life. Bold,
chivalrous, combative—yet merciful, clever, and gossipy— |
John Bull is at once the pride and ornament of his race, j
surpassing the aliens in the achievements of physical skill, j
acute in intellect, invariably polite in deportment, humane |
amid suffering, graceful in action, emboldened in speech, j
conciliating foes by honest tact, pleasing friends by noble
toil. His faults are many, but his fame is fragrant. With
unabused liberty as a birthright, and a history that will bear j
inspection, the true Briton is a model being
Whose honours, with increase of ages, grow i (
As streams roll down, enlarging as they flow.
The German, less quick in sympathy and the social graces, j
excels in music and the weightier revelations of philo- I
sophy. As a ruler he is slow, but imperative. As a j
subject he is zealously patriotic; fond of his wonderful j
Fatherland ; silent, but sanguine, in his ambitions; re- j
deeming the past by ponderous exertion; utilising the |
present by affectionate labour. The Frenchman may be j
studied as an example of highly dramatic temper, inspired j
by a Napoleonic love of glitter, rhetoric, and war; less j
secretive in council than his Teuton neighbour; subordinating
wit, wealth, and culture to the requisitions of great military
and political genius. The irreverent mental brilliance of ,
Voltaire; the startling semi-musical oratory of Victor
Hugo; and the fine cavalier dash of an impulsive soldiery,
betray and represent the more striking types of French
character—the restless, visionary Gaul—whose every inclina¬
tion and enterprise is a continual stage play, the curtain not
seldom rising to reveal unavoidable despotism, or discontent.
The Spaniard is equally poetic, and not less combative;
violent in the expression of his faith ; romantic, but blood¬
thirsty in political deeds. The temperament of the Spaniard
is as uneven as the mountains over which he urges the pet
mule; nor can the sun-kissed fruit and odorous blossom of
the southern vineyards, or the winsome ritual of Papal !j
tabernacles, distract or appease the passion for internal ]
rebellion. Well might Byron poetise his regret in the j
words:—
Such be the sons of Spain, and strange her fate!
They fight for freedom, who were never free; j
A ringless people for a nerveless state.
Her vassals combat when her chieftains flee—
True to the veriest slaves of treachery. j 1
The Yankee character is well-known. Jonathan is our !
fondest, smartest, but sauciest brother. We often criticise, J
but sincerely love him. God bless America! The “ Stars i
and Stripes ” are not without honour, and in many things |
noble, humane, and progressive, we need not hesitate to |
mock the Yankee. As an individual study he is exceptionally j
interesting, showing off to advantage, in the matter of versa¬
tile genius, and the value of an adventurous manhood ; being
very lean, through the activities of acquisitiveness; and
eminently inclined towards “ huge ” jokes. With a quick
eye, and a firm step, he is “ mighty fast ” in achieving
wonders, and those who sneer at, must perforce admire his
pluck and talents. United to Englishmen by grandfatherly
blood and the magic of common speech, identified with the j
parent country in all that constitutes manliness of feature I
and the divinity of civilised aspirations, the honourable I
American presents a physique at once dignified and renowned. |
In thus glancing at the leading types of manhood, what j
shall we say of “ Paddy,” the consecrated child of mistakes, j
sentiment, and disaffectionate dreams ? Politically he may j
be the slave of an ambition too impassioned, pleading for |
r liberty” with the voice of a tyrant; but the “Peep O’Day j
Boys,” in their best character, betray the impulse of a !
magnificent nature, which, when allied to a cultured under- |
standing, produce not a few of the moral and intellectual j
giants of history. We do an injustice to Ireland and the i!i
“ Children of the bog,” by inferring that “ Paddy ” is re¬
bellious by birthright, can be developed only by roast
potatoes, and is continually saying the contrary to what he
means. The genuine Irishman has a brow lofty and broad,
a tongue accustomed to the trickeries of eloquence, a hand
initiated in the mysteries of skill, and a disposition—when
not angrily biased—impulsive, but friendly, energetic and
wise in its sway. Of the sinewy, but thoughtful, Scotch¬
man, we need say but little in this lecture. Perchance the
slowest, but assuredly the most determined of all mortals,
he of the thistle is a fit theme for separate study, exercising,
as he does, an immovable faith in oatmeal and the stern
doctrines of election. In the Scotch we find the motive and
mental temperaments advantageously combined. The horny
hand may be seen attached, by agreeable membership, to
the inventive brain. The poet of the heather unites the
muscle of the athlete with the imagining of delicate romance;
the college student is not unfrequently of warrior size ; the
commercial citizen thrives occasionally on “porridge,” and,
in many cases, smiles only as an article of business, but
“ A man’s a man for a’ that,”
and the physical, no less than the intellectual bearings of
the canny Scotchman strengthen the cumulative evidence
I have adduced to prove that man is the grandest type in
all creation. But we should not overlook the unwelcome
fact that, notwithstanding man’s superior dignity, he is
capable of serious degradation. This is the bad side of an
otherwise beautiful picture. However exquisite in its ori¬
ginal bearings, a broken image is a painful exhibition. This
is no reference to theological doctrine, but simply a regret
that man, the finest, may become the foulest type of God’s
creation, by the abuse of highly-wrought, and once healthy, pas¬
sions. Even the beasts of the field—and all the lower creation
subordinated to man’s requirements—live out their existence
with more deference to pure habits than certain classes of
men. These “ fallen stars” yield to questionable influences,
and lose the “ divinity of their light,” through wilful mis¬
directions of conduct. Take the poor, pitiable sot whose
continual paradise is the tap-room. What a wreck of
humanity 1 A pest to society, a disgrace to his country,
and a terrible sorrow to himself, the confirmed drunkard
still retains the “ image of God,” and is a link, broken and
despised, in the great chain of human brotherhood.
MENTAL PHENOMENA.
A middle-aged man, a native of this town, possesses some
peculiar mental characteristics, to which I wish to draw
attention. He is named “ Natty ” (probably an abbreviation
for Nathaniel) C . Until within a year or two he
resided here, and I had various opportunities of testing his
abilities. He is now in Liverpool, where he runs errands
for drapers and other tradesmen, delivering for them small
parcels, and acting somewhat in the capacity of a courier.
He can spell any word given him, backwards without hesita¬
tion, but I notice that whenever he spelt the same word in¬
correctly in the ordinary way, his inverse orthography was
also in exact keeping with his own idea of the mode of
spelling. But this is not all. If you ask “ Natty ” on what
day of the week a particular day of the month falls in any
month of the year, whether the time be past or in the future,
he can instantaneously and without error tell you. For
instance, if one wished to know the day of the week for the
14th of August, 1802, or asked the same question as to
the 1st of January, or any other time' selected, say
in 1889, an immediate reply would be given. I
remember once taking half-a-dozen old almanacks in my
pocket, and, with these, meeting “ Natty ” I cross-examined
him. Whatever date I named was forthwith answered, and
as I timed him to see how long the mental calculation took,
I found that generally the response came within a single
second, and never exceeded two. He then, turning to a bill
advertising a sale of farming stock, read it down aloud, and
turning from it, repeated the announcement backward, be¬
ginning at the imprint and ending with the first word. I
desired to learn how he was enabled to accomplish such
feats, when hereplied, “ I don’t know ; don’t know ! It’s
God’s gift; God’s gift!” at the same time cutting a variety
TfrE S^IftlTtJALisi.
May 24, 18t8,
of absurd capers, and acting in a manner suggestive that if
the brain had abnormal powers in some respects it was lack¬
ing in others.
I should like to ascertain from such of your correspondents
as can inform me, whether by any system of mental arith¬
metic such a result as that I have mentioned with regard to
the identification of distant dates—no matter how remote—
can be arrived at in so speedy a manner ? If there is no ex¬
planation of it by mathematics, then il intuition ”—the
sixth sense—seems in this case to be fairly established.
Ulverston, May 13, 1878. T. J.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
Mr. Epes Sargent, at the close of his latest book, i( Proof
Palpable of Immortality f writes :—
The wonderful fact of a future life is, at the present time,
either practically ignored, or but faintly entertained, or else
ridiculed and rejected by more than three-fourths of the
people of Christendom; an atheistic Science lifts its voice
and proclaims annihilation as the only consistent creed for a
savant; the prayer even of believers is, “Help thou my
unbelief!” and now, when spirits come and reveal them¬
selves palpably to our senses, and claim recognition, and get
it, and declare to us that death has not destroyed them,
or changed their affections, the stupendous demonstration,
instead of being welcomed with exultation, is met with the
complaint, “ None of them have told us yet about the new
life; we are no wiser than of old 1”
“No wiser?” Does the fact itself leave us actually no
wiser ? Can any one who laments the loved one gone before,
and longs for a reunion, say that the information which the
apparitions vouchsafe is “valueless?” Valueless? And
the information they vouchsafe is, that the departed still
live?
Hear the testimony of one who has seen and heard and
touched. I once related my own interview with the Rev.
Mr. Pope, who went with his wife to see the manifestations
at Moravia, N. Y. He writes to Dr. Crowell, Feb. 28th,
1873 : “ We went there almost totally unbelieving as to the
possibility of seeing our spirit-friends, but our doubts and
unbelief were soon swept away. We went there oppressed
with a great sorrow; we saw those we mourned, as alive from
the dead; we looked into their faces as in other days ; we
received messages from their spirit lips; we felt their
celestial hands touching us, and we went away sorrowless,
our hearts singing for joy. All things now seem changed;
the world wears a brighter aspect; and I tell people I am
one of the happiest men on earth. I always believed and
preached that the departed are alive, and near us ; but believing
and seeing are widely different things^ and I thank God for
the ocular demonstration, and for the joy it gives.”
It is not quite correct to say that spirits tell us nothing
“ about the new life.” Their accounts of it are as various
as their characters. As the objective environments of a
spirit are supposed to correspond with his moral and mental
state, it is quite consistent that the descriptions of their
“ new life ” by these revenants should differ greatly.
It is a question, moreover, whether it would not require
the development of a new sense in ourselves before we could
fully comprehend the descriptions we might get of life in the
spirit-world. Even if we got something new—some truthful
and extraordinary account of the “ new life ”—what would
it amount to unless we had the faculty of accepting the
truth when it was offered, and appreciating it accordingly.
We are told that through Spiritualism “ we are no wiser
than of old.” Truly, that depends. A mere fact adds
nothing to our wisdom until the fact is accepted for what it
is worth. All the information which the highest archangel
could impart in regard to the “ new life ” would profit us
nothing unless there were the proper conditions of mind and
heart, or the opening of a latent sense for its reception.
Spirits and seers, ancient and modern, have given full
and various descriptions of the “ new life; ” descriptions
which may be true, false, or mixed ; but obviously they are
nothing to us until we have the data and the faculties for
testing their accuracy. Mrs. A. A. Andrews says she has
seen autograph letters, enough to fill a volume, written by
spirits, under strictest test conditions, upon paper untouched
24;
by the medium, and containing descriptions of daily life in
the other world, which gave as vivid a conception of ex¬
istence there as it seems possible for those still in the flesh
to form.
To attempt to throw discredit on the significance of spirit
materializations simply because something new, beyond the
amazing fact itself, is not added, is obviously unwise. In
ourselves, and not in the fact, must the requisite condition
be presented before anything new in regard to the future life
can enter our minds. A mere assertion takes no root in an
unreceptive understanding.
Suppose that a true account of the occupations in spirit-
life of Plato, Shakespeare, or Columbus were written out and
published : what impression would it make unless we had
been prepared, by thought, sympathy, and prescience, to
recognise the verisimilitude of the description ?
The objection, therefore, that spirits “ tell us nothing
about the new life ” does not hold ; they tell us a good deal,
but what they tell us is valueless indeed so long as we are
unqualified to form an opinion of its truth. The prophecies
of Cassandra were none the less true because they were not
believed.
As for the objection, so often raised, “ Why do not spirits
forewarn us of many accidents, public or private, which their
premonitions might avert? ” The Spiritualist is not bound
to give any other reply than this: “ I do not know.” Any
person who will take the trouble to investigate may learn
that, in many individual cases, premonitions are given, and
calamities are averted by spirit interposition. Why this is
not done oftener, or in a manner to impress the public at
large more forcibly, is a matter on which we may speculate
| but cannot speak with confidence.
Objections may be multiplied, but they cannot invalidate
! the one great fact which must suffice. Proofs palpable,
, ] given in the reappearance, in temporarily materialized forms,
j | of deceased persons, are now so numerous and so fully
I1 ’ | attested, that no incredulity or opposition can impair their
| force. The phenomena are admitted by all who have quali-
i fied themselves by patient and unprejudiced investigation to
pronounce an opinion.
Since the phenomena of Modern Spiritualism cannot be
| explained by known natural laws, and seem frequently to
occur in violation of those laws, “ there remain only for their
| explanation either the magic forces of the mediums, or of
| foreign spirits.” Such, as I learn from Dr. Bloede, is the
l| | conclusion of Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of. Natural
j j Science at the University at Berne, Switzerland, author
|c| of “The Mystical Phenomena of Human Nature;” who
| | further admits that there are many undeniable facts which
j ! can hardly or not at all be explained by the forces of a
! | medium or his surroundings, and must be attributed to
j | spiritual beings.
| I Thus to the spiritual theory all persevering investigators
I j are brought at last, sooner or later, according to the extent
| | and thoroughness of their experiences and studies. To
i | the proofs mental and supersensual we have now added
HI the proof palpable of immortality; and the result of our
| | examination is that no theory, other than the spiritual, is
I | ample enough to include all the facts, and to offer for them
| I a rational solution.
Miss Poyntz’s Matinees.—The first of a series of three matinees was
] | j given by Miss Katherine Poyntz on Saturday last, at 28, Park-crescent,
| I Regent’s-park,'London (the residence of Mr. and Mrs. Arbuthnot),
| j before a brilliant audience. Mr. Brandram recited Shakespeare’s
111 Tempest in a masterly style, and the incidental vocal music was
! I i rendered by Miss Poyntz, Madame Gilardoni, Mr. Raynham, and Mr.
| | Pyatt; Mr. Duggan conducted at the pianoforte. Miss Poyntz soars
i i far above the level of the ordinary concert-room style; whatever she
i i undertakes is rendered with a finish and completeness which the public
i i has noticed from the very first at the classical concerts given by her at
j | i St. George’s Hall three years ago, where she made her mark as an
|f' \ artist. She was ably sustained on the present occasion by her c >adjutors.'
One of “ Caliban’s” songs, composed by Mr. Duggan, and sung effec¬
tively by Mr. Pyatt, was a masterly composition. The second matinee
will be on the 30th inst., when “Tiny,” the celebrated infant elocu¬
tionist, aged seven, will take part; and at the third, on the 8th of June,
Mr. Brandram will again recite : the play on that occasion will be The
i Midsummer Night's Dream, with musical illustrations. The play of
The Tempest should please the Occultists, for from beginning to end it
is a story of the control by a man of spirits lower in the scale of creation
than himself.
244
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 24, 1878.
TRANCE AND WRITING MEDIUMSHIP.
. Th? ,appended communication and poems were given through the
trance and writing .mediupmhip of the wife of a clergyman known to us.
She first heard of Spiritualism eight years ago in Sheffield, where she
witnessed common table manifestations, and a spirit, “ Georgina
Kemble,” gave her information which afterwards proved to be true.
Later that, evening she sat at home for manifestations, and coherent
messages were written through her hand, without the exercise of her
yolition. i< Georgina Kemble ” that night told her to “ write to Lumley,
in Oxford-street,” about certain literary matters; she previously had
not known of the existence of such a person, but afterwards found his
name in the directory. Since then she has sometimes used her
mediumship, and sometimes neglected it for a time ; she also has of late
years seen a little of Spiritualism in London. When she writes under
influence she is in a half trance ; when she speaks under influence she
is deeper in trance : she never altogether loses consciousness.
As to the materialistic description in the following communication
of a house in the spirit world, our supposition is that mortal brains
cannot conceive the conditions of spiritual existence; that the spirits
are obliged to speak to us by sign and by symbol; and that the key to
the whole matter is probably contained in Swedenborg’s doctrine of
correspondences. It is remarkable that descriptions of curious ever-
qhanging pictures on the walls of spirit homes, have often been given
through different mediums unacquainted with each other.
. When the spirit has reached the stage when it needs no longer the
swaddling clothes of material corporeity, it is immediately brought into
surroundings formed by its previous life, and suited to its present
capacities and aspirations. I hear a great deal of talk aboutspheres,”
which in the ordinary acceptation of the word appears to me to be the
cant overlying Spiritualism, just as other cant phrases get used in other
plotters. It seems to me from my standpoint in spiritual life that there
is one grand scheme of everlasting but gradual progression. So gradual
Indeed is dihis'progression to those who pass from your world to ours, or
from one condition to a higher here, that they scarcely know themselves
to have changed. The state in which I now live alters according to the
interior change of my being. Many of the dear ones who were with
me in earth-life, attracted to me by the drawings of friendship or
affinity, are continually with me now. Living the same life, we enjoy
the same surroundings. Our friendship on -earth was a foreshadowing
of the abiding city here which encloses around those of one spiritual
family. We have our own special homes too, in which we can draw
around us all our loved ones, and in which we can surround ourselves
with all things beautiful. Artists, and poets, and sculptors, and above
all, musicians, follow the special bents of their intellects, and conjointly
worship the Great Giver of all things beautiful by the cultivation of
their special talents. The “kings of the earth” do indeed bring all
their treasures into the homes our Lather prepares for His children.
We have fixed times, as well as you on earth, for prayer and praise to our
Great Lather. Glorious floods of harmony fill the air, and all creation,
inanimate as well -as animate, joins in the universal hymn. Many
bright and holy angels come to instruct us in our assemblies—many who
have suffered for the sake of truth on earth and are now high in the
spiritual world. They, as well as poets and artists, follow their earthly
vocation. Preachers on earth are preachers here, but oh L of so much
higher truths. They, receiving their light from a nearer standpoint to
the Great Lather of Light, impart it to those who are farther away ;
qnd so the chain of light and love lengthens, until it reaches the darkest
and most wretched outcasts from the realms of happiness and holiness.
On my arrival here, the first one who met me was my beloved wife.
She had been living in a retreat, the choice of her quiet spirit, waiting
for me. Her first-born child was with her, and their affectionate
greeting consoled me in the trouble of parting with those I had left
behind. There seemed to be a second marriage. I took her, as I took
her at first, from her quiet home to a house more suitable to my more
ambitious nature. It was not then altogether as I am now about to
describe it. We use means as you do. That which I began by my life
on earth I have now my delight in completing. As thought is added
unto thought, and power unto power, so things external increase in
beauty and symmetry of form and colour; fresh delights are continually
being added, forming new channels for the expression of spirit power.
I will now proceed to describe my house here. It has a long entrance,
paved with tesselated marble, and forming an archway of luxurious
blossoming plants. This entrance opens into a spacious circular court,
in the middle of which are many fountains, higher and purer than any
you have on earth. Around the sides of this court statues are arranged
of purest white marble. They are the portraits of all I hold dear.
Opposite the entrance to the court of which I before spoke is the
principal entrance to the house, which is built around three sides'of the
court. The apartments nearer to the court, and around it, are the
more general ones, where we see our acquaintances, and hold our more
casual intercourse. Here are books and paintings, musical instruments
of all kinds, and all manner of articles of vertu. Leading from these
outer apartments are the inner chambers, where we see our more par¬
ticular friends. In these rooms are our couches for rest. In the midst
of all is an eight-sided room, where-1 hold sweet intercourse with the
one chosen partner of my soul. I have described one court and one
half of the, house. The other half corresponds and stretches around
three sides of another court, and the whole is surrounded by a most
beautiful garden, iu the midst of which is a small river, “ washing up
its silver spray,” as you sing. Groups of luxurious trees form a variety
of shade from the heavenly light which clothes all things with
11 i splendour. My grounds are filled with the most beautiful and gentle of
! j animals, and are the favourite resort of many little children. The
| 11 banks of the river are covered with the softest verdure, and many most
i I delicate and curious shells can be seen on its shores. We call it “ the
| (i river of plenty.” We often sail on its waters, and vary our amusement
!|| by landing and roaming through the beautiful woods on its shore.
|) | Many varieties of fish abound in its waters, and they are so tame they
j (i will be fed from our hands. The landscape around is many-tinted with
| (I flowers, more lovely than any seen in the East. All things in and
i) j around our wonderful home “show forth the glory of God, and declare
i (| His handiwork.” Adjoining each corner of my house is a tower sur-
| j mounted by a minaret, open at the top. A room at the top of each
11 j tower is approached by a spiral staircase of mother-of-pearl, ending in
| (| a flooring of gold. These apartments are devoted to astronomical
! 11 observations, and contain telescopes of mighty power, one in each room,*
j I i fixed in the minaret for upward use ; the others, respectively north,
| (| south, east, and west. The stars seem very large to us, and can be seen
| i in the broad daylight, which always surrounds us. Spirit sight is too
! I j strong to be hurt by their splendour. The sides of the house are com-
! | posed of archways of carved sandalwood. Each arch is approached by
11 ] two steps, each a single opal, and is framed with carved ivory, topped
| (| by a beading of the same. This, again, is surmounted by a colonnade of
j j j the same pure material, which runs around the house, shielding a
| i terrace-walk of fretted gold. The roof, of which this terrace is the
| j I base, is arched, and. composed of a fretwork of the purest gold, covered
I 11 with most exquisite creepers. > In the centre, and over the eight-sided
II j room, the terrace converges into a fifth minaret room, which is fitted up
| (| for rest. The terrace itself is centred from the rooms in the towers,
j (I which, as well as the walls of the house, are built of carved sandalwood.
| 11 The walls of the interior rooms are composed of glass, on which passing
i j i events and scenes, sometimes of the earth and sometimes of the spiritual
! | world, are painted. I can retain these pictures by breathing upon them.
| The outer apartments are three in number, and are devoted respec-
(| tively to music, the fine arts, and literature. Such friends as are drawn
(j hither by any of these attractions find as many opportunities as I can
) i give them for following the several bents of their genius. They have,
(j especially, many concerts, for which our rounded rooms afford the
i greatest facility. Our instruments, unlike yours on earth, are perfect,
|! especially stringed instruments, which are carried to great perfection.
([ On each of these occasions a leader is appointed, who composes the
I music at the time, and impresses those who act in concert with him to
(| carry out his ideas. Some eminent musicians pay us visits from time
(| to time, and we enjoy many happy hours of melody in their company,
11 Music is not with us as it is in most earthly concerts, a mere jingle, or
i I tickling of the fancy. It is our highest aid to religion, and many sin-
(j sick souls are harmonised by the heavenly strains which re-echo from
11 our halls, and attract them from their far-off solitudes, to place them-
< | selves within the reach of those who would do them good. We have
(* academies of music for the young, one of which is held in my house.
| You have been already told my house has a double correspondence,
j- The corresponding poom to that in which we hold our concerts is the one
y| which is the practice-room for - the young. The other end room is
j devoted to painting and sculpture, and here again we enter into the
|| soul of the matter. Perfection of form and purity of colour are
| aimed at, and .only .those styles are allowed for one moment by our
masters which combine harmony, truthfulness, simplicity, and rest,
j The corresponding room to this is used as an academy for the young,
i When any spirit wishes to write a book on any subject, the first thing
he does is to fix his desires in that one direction, and so bring himself
within reach, as it were, of all the facts within the range of the
| subject. These then become substantial to him, and can be gathered
| together and classified. Only thoughts have any form with us, so you
j never find in any of our books, as in those which reach us from earth,
I whole pages perfectly blank, the blank spaces being those on which the
empty words were written. The truth on any subject is arrived at at
i once by a truth-loving spirit, without the waste of life-force which is
i felt on earth in sifting evidence relative to the matter in hand. History
with us is only valuable as it relates to the psychological nature of man.
Events are only the media for the expression of his spirit-life ; there¬
fore when they have done their work the memory of them is useless.
Man’s spirit attainments are his best memoranda. Histories of wars,
the turmoils of nations, and struggles for thrones appear to us as ugly
blots. And little acts of love and self-denial for the good of others, in
the meanest lives, are beautiful pictures in our histories of man. One
of our favourite studies is the formation of matter, for by it the spirit is
ever struggling to find expression. The material universe is the
thought of God, and, in so far as any of His children think, they also
create. Much that your geologist takes years to discover is probed to
the root at once by some of our keen-sighted ones, and they delight to
collect the facts they see, and substantiate them for the instruction of
others. The attitude of mind of those with us who look into these
| deep things is ever one of humble receptiveness. “More light!” is
ever their prayer, and while they are engaged in their investigations
| they can be seen by others as in a stream of sunshine. The more
| earnest they are in their search the more intense the light which streams
| iuto and from them.' Everything that those spirits who meet in my
house undertake has two objects in view—the first, self-improvement-,
| and, from that, the improvement of others. Do not neglect any oppor¬
tunity'you have even now of improving the talents God has given you,
| for by every step you take onward on earth you attain one step higher
in spiritual life, and those who have done their utmost wuth you begin
their life here from a higher standpoint than they could if they had to
commence their work of self-improvement after their change. But now
to resume the description of my house. The flooring of the outer rooms
| is of gopher wood ; that of the inner apartments of cedar; and both
j * Telescopes are not mounted by modern astronomers at the'tops of towers, because the
.1 vibrations there would render them nearly useless.—Ed.
May 24, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
245
are inlaid with ivory and ebony. The pillars which support the roof, j
and separate the outer from the inner apartments, are of lapis-lazuli, in
form a spiral Corinthian. Draperies of a rich crimson hang between,
on bars of silver, and draw aside of themselves, to welcome the
approach of any favoured guest. In these inner chambers, as I before
told you, we hold our closest intercourse with those who love the interior
of things, and who not only are attracted by their love of art, but by
special love of ourselves. The couches I before spoke of are of carved |
saudlewood, covered with sea-green satin, richly embroidered with a
deeper shade.
They have flowing couvrettes of white floss silk. Gold and white
lilies twine around the pillars, and climb to the roof. The air is
constantly laden with their delicate odours, and reverberates with j
the music of singing-birds, who make their homes amid the leaves.
These' songsters are of great numbers and variety, and will fly around !
us as we walk, and even nestle in our bosoms, knowing no fear in this |
home of love. In these rooms we accumulate the relics of our past,
the pictures of our present friendships.
The curtain which separates the centre inner apartment from the
eight-sided room, and which forms its entrance, is of white silk, em¬
bossed with pearls and turquoise. Within this sanctuary I enjoy the j
greatest of all spirit- communion. My love for my sweet partner, your |
mother, is hallowed by conjoint prayer and praise to the Great Author
of our bliss. Together we kneel, and receive the influx of His light
and love and life, and together we stand to pour out before Him the
incense of our joy and praise. The floor of this apartment is strewn
with seed-pearl, emblematical of pure thought. Here is kept every¬
thing that appertains to our most inner life. Just within the curtain,
in the right hand corner, is a small table, carved out of one pearl, in
which stands a lyre-like instrument of gold, with seven strings. One
sweep in this by my dear wife’s hand summons me to her presence at
any moment.
There is no dust here, nor indeed on any of our surroundings ; but at
the first approach of any discord or disagreement of thought their
lustre fades, and their beauty becomes dim. The instant that harmony
is restored to our spirits, the external world shines in all its former
brightness.
The height of the house I have described is three hundred cubits.
It is 465 cubits long, and 232 broad.
Do you wish to know anything of our method of motion ? Our speed
is in proportion to our desire. If we have a strong wish to see another,
especially if that other has a corresponding desire at the same time,
our meeting is instantaneous. At other times we walk with lingering
steps, and admire the beauties of God’s Paradise, which are as tangible
to us, in all their varieties of colour and odour, as those which sur¬
round you on earth. Desire, which is prayer, is the soul of our life
here. It is the motive power of advance, and the spring of all enjoy¬
ment. Man having free-will must work out his own salvation, and
thus it is that so many poor souls lie in darkness so long—they have no
wish for anything higher. Sometimes in thinking out these thoughts
in my own privacy, I am impelled to visit some lone soul wandering
in darkness, and become the happy instrument of leading him to
wish for something higher. Sometimes, even the approach of a brighter
spirit, in sympathy and love, imparts the light which henceforth
becomes a thing to be longed for by the poor lost one. He contrasts
his state with ours, and then it is we are able to whisper, “ What is
my heritage is yours, my Father is your Father, my God is your God
and oftentimes the soul which has suffered most in the darkness of
self-despair shines the brightest in the full glory of thelove of God.
Thus you see our life is not one only of self-indulgence. Amidst all the
happiness of our personal surroundings, our great aim is to be co¬
workers with Him “ wha would have all men to be saved.” Beauty,
and love, and joy, have all this end in view, the glorification of God in
the goodness, and, therefore, the happiness of all his creatures. It is a
pity that among you the first principle of all-healing is not better
understood, which consists iu the mesmerism of love, or sympathy.
The hurt infant who turns to the mother “ to kiss the place and make
it well” is wiser than all your physicians. If mesmerism were better
understood and oftener applied, there would be little or no need of any
medicines. Of course, such often contain, in essence, a part of the life-
giving principle which is needed for certain diseases, but a thoroughly
healthy body and pure mind contains the essence of all life, which can
be imparted by the efforts to aid which sympathy teaches. The desire
to heal produces the power.
I have heard you desire an explanation of the substantiality of the
locale in which we move and have our being ; also as to whether the
vegetation of our soil is cultivated, or is spontaneous growth. I will
try to answer you by a few simple thoughts.
First, with regard to substantiality. Spirit is the ultimate of matter.
From your world to ours there is a continuous resurrection. Every
portion of the matter which surrounds and sustains you is the mani¬
festation and outpouring, .for your present necessities, of the eternal
Spirit in whom we all exist. When the purpose for which it is thus
embodied is served, it arises to a higher use. You say a flower is
“ dead.” Its clothing is worn out and cast aside, but the flower itself m
breathing out its beauty in a lovelier form, and where there is no fading
or loss. As with your verdure, so with your soil. Its spirit reclothes
itself in ours, only in a more fruitful form.
These flowers and beauties of nature gather themselves around those
with whom they have a natural correspondence ; so also do the thorns
and deformities. There are spirits who may roam amidst—nay, even
tread upon—the loveliest of God’s flowers, and know not of their
presence ; and others around whose footsteps they spring spontaneously
in fresh varieties of odour and colour.
While these beauties of God’s Paradise are lavishly outspread and
spring up uncalled around those who specially love and cultivate them,
they grow and smile in thousandfold numbers and joy.
You say, Where then is the need of cultivation ? There is this need.
The need of our nature to aid and cherish, which is drawn out in some
more than in others, in this particular direction. Where is the need of
cultivation ? Do you cease to cultivate a spirit because it is pure,
and gentle, and good? Nay,-verily, the culture makes it shine the
brighter in the firmament of love. The effort to aid/others blesses
both the improver and the improved.
You ask me, Do we ever sleep? We have, as you have on earth,
certain periods of rest in which all our surroundings take a part. The
flower shuts its beauteous eye to gain from higher spiritual surround-,
ings more ethereal beauty and more delicate bloom. The bird
hushes his song, only to learn fresh strains of melody from music
more perfectly attuned, which lures him to his dreams. And man
withdraws from his external life to commune with the interior, to
drink more deeply of the spring of eternal beauty and love, to
accord his spirit more perfectly to heavenly harmony, to gather
strength from God’s own stronghold of power, and to bathe himself
afresh in the fountain of everlasting life.
The following poems have been given through the me-
diumship of the same lady :—•
anticipation.
Oh come, blest time,
When we shall meet
In happiness
And union sweet,
When heavenly chimes
Shall call to praise
The Father of
Our endless days;
When all around
Our joy shall share,
When harmony
Shall fill the air,
When earth’s tired children shall be blest
With sweet eternal heavenly rest.
The longest years
Will moments seem,
When ended is
Earth’s fitful dream,
And weary ones
Will smile at pain
Which cannot be
Endured again ;
All misconception
Being past,
Divided hearts
Shall meet at last;
In all God’s Paradise of rest
Not one shall mourn or be opprest.
what is GOD?
God is the Magnet which attracts the Universe,
The Great Unknowable to whom all learners bow,
Creation’s loving, tender, and all-pitying Nurse,
The Sire and Mother of the future past and now,
The Love-Force binding sentient things in brother-love,
Creation’s Nerve which throbs around, beneath, above ;
The perfect, ever-yearned for, ever-ungained Rest,
And unattainable, till man has worked his best,
Within thyself Immortal, is the answer sealed.
When thou hast formed thyself thou’It find thy God revealed.
WATCHMAN, WHAT OF THE NIGHT ?
Watchman, what of the Night ?
Its hours drag slowly along.
All hail the first ray of the luminous day
When sorrow shall change into song.
Watchman, what of the Night ?
Its dews are heavy and cold ;
But the morning sun will clothe each one
With an aureole of gold.
Watchman, what of the Night ?
Darkness and death are wed ;
But an angel of light holds a coronet bright
Over each suffering head.
A Superstitious Terrier..—Mr. C. F. Crehore, of Boston, United
States, sends us an amusing incident, d propos of the subject of
fetichism in animals referred to by Mr. Romanes recently in Nature.
A brave, active, intelligent terrier, belonging to a lady friend, one day
discovered a monkey, belonging to an itinerant organ-grinder, seated
upon a bank within the grounds, and at once made a dash for him.
The monkey, who was attired in jacket and hat, awaited the onset
with such undisturbed tranquillity that the dog halted within a few feet
of him to reconnoitre. Both animals took a long steady stare at each
other, but the dog evidently was recovering from his surprise, and
about to make a spring for the intruder. At this critical juncture the
monkey, who had remained perfectly quiet hitherto, raised his paw and
gracefully saluted by raising his hat. The effect was magical; the
dog’s head and tail dropped, and he sneaked off and entered the house,
refusing to leave it till he was satisfied that his polite but mysterious
guest had departed. His whole demeanour showed plainly that he felt
the monkey was something “ uncanny,” and not to be meddled with.—*
Nature.
PSYCHOGBAPHY.
(From “ The London Figaro''')
Psychography. A Treatise on One of the Objective Forms of Psychic
or Spiritual Phenomena. By “M.A. (Oxon.)” London: W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Bussell-street.
As Mr. Harrison prefatorially alleges, * this book is “ concerned with
what has been variously called Independent, Direct, or Spirit Writing.”
It is put forward as the presentation, “ within convenient space, of a
record of facts bearing on one form only of Psychic Phenomena ”—and
that a form closely associated with Slades and slates ; and it is intended
to “ elucidate one among many of the facts which testify to the exist¬
ence of a soul in man, and to its independent action beyond his physical
body.” Constructed on these lines, and bringing into demonstrative
focus existent allegations anent spirit writing, the book contains revela¬
tions which out-Slade Slade, and are matchless for unnerving inexplic¬
ability only by the so-called plots of some of our most notorious
dramatists. Witness this brief tribute to the psychographic powers of
Baron Guldenstubbh, as set forth in his book, 'l La liealite des Fsprits,
et lephenomene merveilleux de lew eeriture directe”:—
“ Baron Guldenstubbe seems to have been able to dispense with the
usual conditions under which writing is obtained—a closed room with
mesmerically-charged atmosphere, subdued light, and a formal gathering
of persons from or through whom the necessary force is evolved. He
obtained his writings anywhere, and at any time, in the open air, and
on a tombstone, of which locality he was specially fond. It squared
with his idea of the source of the writing, and so facilitated its execu¬
tion Among the places named as those where successful experi¬
ments were made are the Louvre, the Museum at Versailles, the
Cathedral of Saint Denis, Westminster Abbey, the British Museum, the
cemeteries of Montparnasse, Montmartre, and Pere la Chaise ; the
Bois de Boulogne, and various churches and ancient ruins in France,
Germany, Austria, and England..... The first experiment was made
by placing paper and pencil in a box, which was locked, and the key of
which never left the Baron’s possession. No one was acquainted with
the fact that any such experiment was in process. After twelve days,
during which no mark was made on the paper, there appeared on it
certain mysterious characters, and during that day ten separate experi¬
ments gave successful results. The box was then left open and watched,
and writing was seen to grow upon the paper without the use of pencil.
From that time he abandoned the use of the pencil altogether, and
obtained his vast number of Psychographs by the simple process of
putting blank paper on the table of his room, or in public buildings, or
on the pedestal of ancient statues, or on tombstones in churches and
cemeteries. It apparently mattered little where the paper was placed;
and it is more than probable that the Baron, by exercise of his will,
could have obtained any given name in any given place. The
association of name and statue or tomb was a consequence of his
prepossessions.”
The above recital is, however, it must be confessed, by no means the
most startling and sensational disclosure in the volume.
Sir Thomas Chambers will preside at Finsbury Chapel on Tuesday,
the 28th May, at half-past seven o’clock, when a discussion will take
place between Mr. Wheeler and Dr. Wyld on the advantages and dis¬
advantages of vaccination. As many Spiritualists are altogether
against the practice of vaccination, it might be well to know what can
be said on both sides of the question.
Spiritualism and the Newspapers.—About three hundred copies of
The Spiritualist of May 3rd were posted to the chief newspapers and
periodicals in the United Kingdom and the islands in the British seas.
Whenever we did the same, during the past eight years, about half a
dozen newspapers arrived by post every morning for a fortnight, con¬
taining articles abusing Spiritualism. Of late this abuse has died out,
and as regards the number of May 3rd, but a single specimen of news¬
paper blackguardism has reached us. The days of abuse of Spirit¬
ualism are nearly over, and the days of its popularity are at hand.
Prosperity tries individuals and communities as much as adversity,
and how Spiritualism will bear the change is a problem shortly to be
solved.
Misrepresentations of Spiritualists.—While the editor of the
Christian World was doing what good he could to Spiritualism, by
honourably letting his numerous readers know the truth about it, Mr.
William Howitt partially undid the work and strongly prejudiced their
minds by telling them that the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists called upon its members to renounce Christianity—an irreligious
and wanton assertion, in which there was no truth whatever. In justi¬
fication he now quotes what he calls “ documentary” evidence—namely,
a statement about Spiritualists printed in a daily newspaper. But there
is not a word in the Daily News' paragraph, on which he relies, to the
effect - that the National Association of Spiritualists called upon its
members to renounce Christianity. It merely says that the Association
removed a statement about Christianity from its programme, “ because
it was impossible to please everybody.” And it was quite right so to do,
since it has no more business to interfere with the religious opinions of
its members by putting a theological clause in its prospectus than has
the Koyal Institution or the Royal Society. Mr. Howitt has neither
withdrawn his false statement in the pages in which he made it, nor
written an apology to those at whom he has thrown mud. Many a con¬
scientious Atheist, Buddhist, and New Zealand savage would have too
nice a sense of honour to stand in such a position; and this shows that
noisy theological professions are one thing and religious life another.
If Mr. Howitt considers daily newspaper statements about Spiritualists
to be “ documentary ” evidence, what does he say to the assertion once
printed in The Times that he is a “fanatic? ”
♦It should be, “As ‘Jd.A, (Oxon) ’ prefatorially alleges.”—Ed. of S,
Spiritualism in Dalston.—Mr. T. L. Henly will read a paper,
entitled “ The Origin of Matter—a Speculation based on Scripture,” at
the ordinary weekly meeting of the Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism, 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, London, E., on Thursday
evening next, at eight o’clock. Mr. Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald,
M.S.TeLE., will preside. Visitors are invited to. attend, and to take
part in the proceedings.
We have received a letter from America complaining that Professor
J. R. Buchanan, of Boston, United States, was called plain “ Mr. ” in
The Spiritualist. In England professors often prefer to be called ® Mr.,”
because here we have professors of hair-cutting, and professors in
tight-fitting garments who keep four knives in the air at the sam e time,
while they balance a fifth on the ends of their noses, and all this upon
a piece of carpet a yard square in the open street. Our correspondent
nevertheless forgets to state, after all, in what college or university
Professor Buchanan occupies the professorial chair.
Hackney Psychological Society.—The paragraph in the last number
11 of The Spiritualist, calling attention to the formation of the new psycho-
(j logical society in Hackney, has resulted in the addition of several new
I members to the organisation, six having joined on Sunday last. Mr. 0.
! Rhys Williams, the secretary pro tern., desires to secure the services of
J | a trustworthy physical medium, and would be glad to correspond with
i any such who would give seances on moderate terms. The services on
i Sunday last were well attended. The meeting was of a devotional
J j character, and Mr. Williams states that the proceedings seemed to give
i j general satisfaction. Those who wish to attend the developing circles
ij on Tuesday evenings should call on Mr. Williams, at 6, Field View-
terrace, London Fields, Hackney, E.
I Canadian Necromancers Interrupted.—A Montreal detective has
j arrested two “ necromancers,” Paul Boone and Jean Sudan, under very
| singular circumstances. He found them at midnight in a gentleman’s
orchard ; they were laden down with beads and crosses, walking round
and round a tree, the leader reading spells from an ancient Latin book
J by the light of a taper, while the other, holding the leader’s coat-tail
I with one hand, with the other cut and slashed at imaginary demons
j with a sword. At last they fell on their knees, and, beating their
| breasts, called on Satan to deliver up the gold. When they were
brought before the police justice it was found that they had with them
| hammers and cold-chisels wherewith to break open the iron casket of
i gold they were to receive from the guardian demons at 12.30 o’clock on
i Friday night, and pleaded piteously to be released in time to go through
j the final conjurations. They were released, but warned not to trespass
on the premises again.—Boston ( U. S.J Sunday Herald.
| General Meeting.—The annual general meeting of the members
j of the British National Association of Spiritualists will be held next
Tuesday, at 6.30 p.m., at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for the
| adoption of the annual report, the election of officers for the coming
| year, and other business. We notice from the voting papers that the
i principle of vote by ballot has been abolished, and are glad of it,
| although it appears to have been done without authority. Vote by
ballot is a secret and “ un-English ” practice, but in political arenas
| substitutes a lesser evil for a greater, by establishing secret voting in
I place of voting subject to the.tyranny of landowners, lawyers, and
| others. The better remedy would be that society should ostracise
j those of its members who interfere with freedom of election. There
| are complaints about the system of election laid down for the National
j Association of Spiritualists next Tuesday, each voter being obliged to
strike off the list of names, those of individuals for whom he does not
wish to vote. The complaints are that it is unpleasant to be forced to
strike off names—that a line ought to be left opposite each name, on
which the elector can put his signature if he wishes to vote for the
individual, thus permitting him to do nothing in relation ta those he
does not wish to support. Striking off names is felt to be a dis¬
agreeable way of managing the election. This can be corrected next
year. By organisation Spiritualists are practically learning the art of
ord erly self -government.
An Experimental Lecture.—Last Monday night, at the ordinary
fortnightly meeting of the British National Association of Spiritualists,
at 38, Great Russell-street, London, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald,
M.S.Tel.E., gave an experimental lecture on “Theosophy and the
Conservation of Energy.” This lecture is printed in another column.
The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., presided. Mr. Fitz-Gerald illus¬
trated his address by several experiments. He ignited a little pyroxy-
line in his hands, and, when it disappeared in a flash of flame, he
explained that its atoms had not been destroyed; that they were
imperishable; that they were floating invisibly in the air in other forms
of chemical combination, and that science was able to prove it. In
stating that Spiritualists did not believe in the infraction of the law of
gravitation in levitation phenomena, but that some other forces came
into play to counteract it, he caused an electro-magnet to make a lump
of soft iron rise through the air in opposition to the force of gravitation,
although nothing visible was touching the metal. He next explained
that as matter was indestructible, so was force never lost; it could but
be transformed. The work done by his assistants in turning the handle
of a Wyld’s magneto-electric machine was transformed into electricity,
which in its turn was made to tear asunder the particles of oxygen and
hydrogen gases of which water consists ; but again the power was not
lost, for it was stored up in the gases from the water which he collected
in a soda-water bottle. When he ignited these gases, the energy
became once more sensible in the form of light and explosive sound.
Thus energy was transformable, but indestructible. He then argued
that certain opinions held by Theosophists were opposed to the law of
the conservation of energy. Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr,.
Henly, and others, took part in the discussion,
243 SflUlTUAtlSt. ' May 24, 1878,
May 24, 1878.
THE SPIKI;THALIST.
247
THE ATTEMPT TO LOCK UP MES. WELDON IN
A MADHOUSE.
CERTIFICATES OF HER SANITY.
The appended certificates show that those who saw much
of Mrs. Weldon in France up to the time she left it are
certain as to her sanity. Those who have seen most of her
since her return to England can do the same; and Mr.
Flowers, the magistrate, a few days ago stated from the
bench that, while she was conducting her own case before
him against Menier, he saw no reason to suppose her to be
insane.
Yet, a few days after her return from France, doctors in
disguise entered her house on the pretence that they were
Spiritualists, and wished her to extend her charity to cer¬
tain orphans who had no existence except in the utterances
from their lips. They went away, signed certificates that
she was insane, keepers came to carry her off to Dr. Forbes
Winslow’s madhouse, and would have succeeded but for
the accidental presence at Tavistock House of Mrs. Lowe,
honorary secretary to the Lunacy Law Deform Association,
who, to her honour, rescued Mrs. Weldon.
The law, Mr. Dillwyn and others will notice, is in such a
horrible state that since then Mrs. Weldon has neither been
able to ascertain with certainty the names of the doctors
who signed the certificates, nor the allegations above the
signatures. Thus an alleged lunatic is far worse off than
an alleged criminal. The latter knows what he is charged
with, and who makes the accusation.
Why did not Dr. Forbes Winslow, when writing to Truth)
further the interests of the public by giving the information
in his possession about the contents and signers of the
certificates ?
CERTIFICATE OF HR. JAMES BELYIN.
51, Rue de Luxembourg, Paris,
May 16th, 1878.
To whom it may concern,
I, the undersigned, Doctor of Medicine and Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons, England, certify having been medical attendant of
Mrs. Georgina Weldon during her late sojourn in Paris.
I was always struck with the remarkable clearness of her intellect,
and the masterly manner in which she would discuss every subject to
which her attention was drawn. I regard Mrs. Weldon as sane beyond
a question of doubt. James'Belvin.
CERTIFICATE OF DR. GEORGE WYLD.
12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park.
I hereby certify that I met Mrs. (Georgina) Weldon many times last
year, and never saw or heard anything to indicate that she had a
tendency to insanity.
I have this day spent one hour in continuous conversation with her,
and I have not.been able to find any trace of insanity either in her
appearance or in her conversation. Geo. Wyld, M.D., Ed.
April 19th, 1878.
CERTIFICATE OF DR. JAMES EDMUNDS.
8, Grafton-street, Piccadilly,
April 19th, 1878.
This is to certify that I have conversed with Mrs. Weldon for more
than an hour,* and have carefully examined her with regard to her
sanity. I am of opinion that she is perfectly sane.
James Edmunds, M.D., M.R.C.P. Lond.
A QUOTATION FROM LAST WEEK’S “ TRUTH.”
“ There seems to be some difference of assertion in respect to the
names of the medical men who signed the lunacy certificate of Mrs.
Weldon. The lady says that Dr. Winslow came with Dr. Winn, and
that the certificate was signed by Dr. Winn and Dr. Rutherford. Dr.
Winslow writes to say tliat ‘ Neither of the lunacy certificates for the
reception of this lady into my lunatic asylum were signed by Dr. Winn
or myself—such a proceeding on my part would have been illegal—but
by two independent medical men. My connection with the case was of
purely a professional character, and commenced before the prosecution
of Menier, with which it has nothing to do ! ’ So far as I can make
out, Mrs. Weldon is now admitted to be sane; and yet, had she not
resisted the attempt to incarcerate her, she would have been carried off
to an insane asylum. I do not the least question that she would have
been well treated in the establishment of Dr. Winslow, but surely that
gentleman must admit that the condition of the law under which,
assuming her to be sane, she might have become an inmate of a mad¬
house, needs amendment.”
certificate of the nuns of gisors.
( Translation.)
To whom it may concern:—
The sojourn of Mrs. Georgina Weldon at the Convent of Gisors has
been from beginning to end marked by the highest wisdom and the
greatest dignity. There is not one of us who has observed her closely,
who has heard her, and who has conversed with her, who has not been
struck by the superiority of her intelligence. All in her—her speech,
* Dr. Edmunds was in my society that day five hours and a half.—G. Weldon.
her conversation, the correct and neat state of her account-books—•
denote her as a person possessed of perfect reason. [The document then
sets forth the indignation of the writers at the attempt to incarcerate Mrs.
Weldon in a lunatic asylum.'] We cannot resist the desire we feel to
send her all our sympathies, conjointly with a multitude of others
which must reach her on all sides. They must be a little consolation to
her in the midst of such cruel trials.
Her sudden departure from amongst us at Gisors caused to all in the
establishment—administrators, secretary, nuns, boarders, and inmates of
all ages—unanimous regrets.
We beg Mrs. Weldon to accept the spontaneous expression of this,
and to make what use of it she chooses.
Hotel Dieu de Gisors.
. May 9th, 1878.
(Signed)
M. Lepage, Administrateur.
Sister Lebas, Mother Superior.
Sister Delannoy.
Zoe Martin’, lady hoarder.
Sister Melite.
Sister Em Posset, who knows
how to appreciate the grandeur of
soul of this lady.
Marie Rendu, lady hoarder.
Mr. E. W. Wallis, the trance medium, is now lecturing in New¬
castle and the north of England. He intends to return to London
about the end of June. .
The Psychological Society of Great Britain.—Last Thursday
night, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting of the Psychological Society,
at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square, London, Mr. Serjeant Cox
gave an address on Phrenology, in which he maintained the truth of its
major asserted facts, and said that there was less certainty about some
of the minor. He knew from personal experiments that phreno-
mesmerism was true. The intellectual faculties were in the front part
of the brain, the aspirational at the top, and the animal at the back.
At the next meeting Mr. W. H. Coffin will speak on these points.
Mrs. Everitt at Dalston.—A special invitation seance with Mrs.
Everitt was held on Wednesday evening last week at the rooms of the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 58, Sigdon-road,
Dalston, London, E. The circle was a large one, but much satisfaction
was expressed by all present at the direct voice manifestations of the
spirits known as “John Watt” and “Znippy.” Before the gaslight
was turned off, movements of the table and of the large family Bible
thereon, with rappings on the table and chairs, were obtained. Appro¬
priate passages of Scripture were signalled by raps, proving an intelli¬
gent source. I was directed to sit next to Mrs. Everitt, and am
satisfied of the voices being unmistakably separate and distinct from the
vocal utterances of Mrs. Eyeritt; At the close of the s&ance a vote of
thanks was unanimously'hccorded to Mrs. Everitt for her visit.—J.
Blyton, Hon Sec. *- -
Spiritualism at Ainsworth.—On Wednesday evening a lecture was
delivered in the Unitarian Schoolroom, Ainsworth, by Mr. W. J.
Colville, on the question, “ Wherein do Unitarians and Spiritualists
Differ?” The Rev. Ephraim Turland officiated as chairman. The
lecture, which was thoughtful and eloquent, was well received. After
showing that Spiritualism, like everything else, might be abused, and
had actually been abused, he yet contended that its advantages far
outweighed its dangers, and that it was the only power capable of
conquering Materialism and making religion universal.—Questions,
aimed at certain joints in the lecturer’s armour, were put by Messrs.
Ellis Greenhalgh and Thos. Tootill, the Rev. R. Cowley Smith, and
the chairman, and such questions were answered with varying degrees
of satisfaction. On the nomination of the chairman, a committee of
four persons, two being Spiritualists and two non-Spiritualists, conferred
together as to the subject of the extempore poem. The theme chosen
was “Spring,” and Mr. Colville gave a poem of much beauty and
power on that subject, and closed amidst much applause. The
proceedings were closed with the Doxology.—The Bolton Evening News.
A Murderer’s Brain.—Yesterday afternoon, says the Albany Argos,
an autopsy of the body of Sam Steenberg, the murderer, was held
by Drs. Vanderveer, Balch, and Ward, in the presence of a numerous
representation of the medical profession. The fine physique of the
man as he lay upon the operating table, previous to the use of the
knife, was commented upon—five feet seven inches in height, forty-
four years of age, chest measuring thirty-nine inches, head and
muscles of the entire body finely developed, weight one hundred and
eighty-four pounds, body well proportioned and nourished, notwith¬
standing the confinement of the past few months. The tape measure
registered 23| inches around the skull at the largest part, the measure¬
ment of Ruloff’s being 24^ inches. Steenberg’s measurement across the
shoulders was 17J inches. The brain weighed 50 ounces; Ruloff’s
weighed 59 ounces; Cuvier’s brain, which is the maximum brain,
weighed 65 ounces ; Webster’s, 46 ounces ; Abercrombie’s, 63 ounces.
The minimum-weight brain is 20 ounces. The average between the
maximum and minimum is 42 ounces, while the general average of
mankind is 50 ounces. Notwithstanding this large measurement
around the brain, the upper lobes of the brain were very small, as in
Ruloff, and the lower part large, showing him to have been merely
an animal. The skull of the negro had an average thickness of one-
quarter of an inch, being very uniform, with no thin places, making
it really a thick skull. . The crest of the skull was deeply indented.
All over the surface of the coating of the brain were marks of chronic
inflammation, which has been deemed in some criminal cases as affect-
i ing mental action, forming a very interesting scientific question.—
Boston Sunday Herald.
,Vve. Arnet.
Marie Berthy.
E. Lefebre, Aumonnier.
Hte. Robine, Econome.
Sister F. Legros.
Sister Meulon.
Sister St. Francois.
Miss MacDivitt.
Ve. Artel.
Sister Francoise.
248
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 24, 1878,
A CAST OF A MATERIALISED SPIRIT HAND.
BY WILLIAM OXLEY.
The above is an exact copy from a photograph of the cast
of a hand in plaster of Paris, from a mould made by a
materialised spirit form, calling herself Lilly, on April 11th,
1876, under circumstances in which fraud was simply im¬
possible. Dr. Monck was the medium, who, after request¬
ing to be searched (which was complied with), went into a
cabinet improvised by myself, and formed by drawing the
curtains across the recess of a bay window, the light being
on the whole time of the stance. A circular table was pushed
close up to the curtains, round which seven of us sat. Soon
two feminine figures, known to us as Bertie and Lilly, ap¬
peared at the opening in the curtains, and then Dr. Monck,
putting his body outside the curtains, the two figures
appeared at the top opening, and two other male figures
(Mike and Richard) drew the curtains and showed themselves.
Thus at the same instant we saw the medium and four spirit
forms, all having special characteristics of their own as
distinguishable and well-known as individuals in the flesh.
It is needless to say that all proper precautions were
taken, and that we were quite able to detect imposition if
such had been attempted ; but the mould and the cast from
the mould speak for themselves, as the fine cuticle marks
are distinctly delineated, and the curves of the fingers show
that they could not be drawn out by ordinary means without
rupturing the mould, as the wrist is only 2 by 1|- inches,
while the width from outside of the thumb to little finger is
3% inches. I took the mould to a modeller, who cast the
hand himself.
I had prepared the paraffin wax and placed it in the
cabinet. First Bertie gave Mr. Reimers a mould of her
hand, and one of her foot to myself, after which Lilly asked
if I would like one of her hand, to which I replied in the
affirmative; she then placed her hand in the paraffin (judging
by the sound of splashing in the cold water which we heard),
and in about one minute she projected her arm through the
curtains mt/i the mould upon her hand, and asking me to take
it from her. I reached across the table; in a moment her
hand was withdrawn, and the mould left in my hand.
The evidence as to the genuineness of the phenomenon in
this case is beyond all question, as the medium before
going into the cabinet had been searched, and the table (a
large circular one) was placed close up to the curtains, the
sitters forming a semicircle which compassed the cabinet, so
that ingress or egress was impossible without being seen, as
the light was sufficient for us to see every object in the
room quite distinctly.
For some reason or other this phase of phenomena has
been for a time in abeyance, and possibly there may be no
more of it; for this reason I have had the above drawing
made, that it may have a permanent record in your journal,
and thus form a portion of history in connection with the
development of the new force now popularly known as
Spiritualism.
The proofs that this force is exerted by intelligent beings,
with a consciousness of their own and distinct from that of
the medium or sitters in a stance, are rapidly accumulating,
and the demonstration of immortality, or the continuity of
life to those who now exist on this mundane sphere, can
hardly be gainsaid, for be it remembered that all the opera¬
ting spirits or beings claim to have an individuality and
consciousness of their own, and this must stand good until
Approved.
I In the present instance the hand which moulded the glove
| (or wax covering) was certainly not the medium’s, and equally
| certain is it that it was not owned by any of the sitters, and
! as we may dismiss any suggestion of mortal confederacy, the
| question remains—Whose hand made the mould ?
I We did see a feminine figure which to all appearance was
| human, and who projected her arm from the cabinet with the
| mould upon it, and which, upon the hand being withdrawn,
I was left in my own hand.
If human testimony is of any value (and all the seven wit-
I nesses will, if need be, corroborate the truth of this narrative),
! the evidence as to the action and exercise of energy, not the
| medium’s or the sitters’, is conclusive, and the fact of indi-
11 vidualised life in a sphere of existence not mundane is estab-
| | lished beyond all controversy.
|| | As yet the development of this supra-mundane life is but
l)| in its infancy, and that which has already been exhibited
II may be taken as a prophecy of greater marvels to follow.
| The great law of equilibrium seems to point to the fact
I that, as immortal beings can temporarily clothe themselves
] with what is called matter, so mortal beings may soon de-
| velop the power of unclothing themselves and making them-
| selves visible to the dwellers of the supra-mundane spheres.
Clairvoyance and clairaudience are but steps in this direction,
I and, judging from the rapid advance made by the inhabitants
I of the beyond, it does not appear unreasonable to think that
| the knowledge of the law whereby mortals may have access
| to the spheres peopled by immortals may be attained.
To the most cursory observer and student of the new
| phenomena, it must be plain that all displays of this new
i force or energy are subject to law, and, as such, present a
i field for scientific research and discovery. It is no less evi-
| dent to all who take an interest in scientific subjects, and
| who have watched the results of the indomitable energy,
| patient research, and crucial experiments of the leading
!) | scientists of the day, that a point has been reached at which
| | it is impossible to stop, for men have touched the boundary
| | line of merely physical phenomena, and have pierced, per-
I I chance unknown to themselves, the domain of the supra-
| | mundane sphere; and precisely at this point a stranger
I | appears, in the form of a hitherto unknown force, or power,
| i guided by an intelligence foreign to the investigator and
| | beholder, and which demands to be recognised as a factor
|) | in the solution of problems relating to the elucidation of
! || pure scientific truth.
I | Although the manifestation of this power is connected
|j| with a human organism as a medium through which it
|)| operates, yet no other theory than that of a separate and
||j distinct individuality from the medium will cover the
j) j ground so thickly strewn with facts which cannot be ignored,
11 and which are so well authenticated by trustworthy witnesses.
No amount of ingenuity displayed in the invention of
111 terms or words applicable to the various phases of the mani-
|) | testation of this (to many) unwelcome visitor can avail to
|) i hide their real character, and when once acknowledged and
I | welcomed, knowledge pertaining to the modus operandi in
I I the production of the phenomena, will be bestowed as freely
||| and fully as the capacity for utilising it for the good of the
I | race is developed.'
The words spirit and spiritual are now accepted to express
tj the idea that the communicating intelligence and power are
| | wielded by a race of beings who are not embodied as we are
j)| who inhabit the earth, and the all important question to be
llj solved is this, Are they the same individuals who once lived
| | in conditions similar to our own in the present state? And
;| the next is, Can these disembodied beings return and give to
t| us the story of their exit from earth-life, and their experiences
| | of the new-found state of existence beyond the present?
1)1 These two questions answered in the affirmative, and sup-
111 ported by proofs demonstrable to the senses when need be,
| I then progression in knowledge is assured, and another
|| science and art will be added to those which are already
|| possessed.
Science, as now understood, does not profess to deal with
| 4 other than the laws of nature or matter; but who has un-
|| folded the mystery of matter ? Surely the science which only
| deals with external phenomena cognisable to the outer senses,
m and which cannot enlighten the inquiring mind upon the
May 24, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
249
interior action or working of laws which govern the mental |)!
and spiritual universe, is defective; and if I read the lesson j s j
aright the present exhibition of power, or force, or, if we will, ! < j
the interference in mundane affairs by beings of another m
order, is to lead or attract mankind to the study and con- | s j
temptation of another and higher mode of existence, in what ]) I
is now to the generality of mankind the unseen and un- j) J
known universe, in which it will be found that the substance s j
which forms its expression is as real, (and perchance more ) j
real,) to those who inhabit it, as matter is to mortals, for the j j
surroundings in all worlds and slates of existence are always (I
the outbirths or re-presentations of that which is within the ) |
organisms of the beings who inhabit them. H
Manchester, May 21st, 1878.. . • . ( i
THE “CONSERVATION OF ENERGY” IN RELATION TO | I
CERTAIN VIEWS OF THE THEOSOPHISTS.* I |
BT DESMOND Or. FITZGERALD, M.S.TEL.E. ) j
The principle of the conservation of matter—the inde- j j
structibility of that which has an objective and a substantive |
existence to us as we are at present constituted—appears to j
have been recognised at a very early period, although its j
verification was possible only by the methods of inductive
science. Thus the Egyptians held that “ nothing perishes
which has once existed, and things which appear to be 1 j
destroyed only change their natures and pass into another
form.”f In Greece, Democritus and Leucippus taught that i
the whole universe is made up of empty space and eternal
atoms; and the Latin poet, Lucretius, inaugurated the j
school of pure materialism by the statement that “there can I
be no third thing besides body and void ; for if it be to the j
smallest extent tangible it is body, if hot, it is void.” But only
in the last century were the means afforded for the demonstra¬
tion of the conservation of matter. It is no longer, for instance, |
a matter of surmise, but one of absolute certainty, that the |
cotton from which was prepared the substance {pyroxyline) j
which I now hold in my palm was built up of atoms derived
from the invisible air, and that these atoms, unchanged in j
mass, return to the atmosphere, when, as you perceive, this |
substance apparently flashes into nothingness on bringing j
into contact with it an incandescent fragment of wood. ]
To the present century, and to our own times, belongs the j
arch-discovery of the analogous principle of the conservation !
of energy. In the words of Professors Balfour Stewart and |
P. G. Tait, “ It is only within the last thirty or forty j j
years that there has gradually dawned upon the minds of j
scientific men the conviction that there is something besides j
matter, or stuff, in the physical universe; something which has I
at least as much claim as matter to recognition as an objective |
reality, though, of course, far less directly obvious to our |
senses as such, and therefore much later in being detected.” j |
Now the admission, without any reserve, on the part of { |
physicists of a something which has an objective, though j
not a substantive existence, is in itself a fact of the utmost |
importance to those who are called upon to fight the battle j
of Spiritualism against Materialism on grounds of experi- j
mental and logical demonstration, albeit in an atmosphere j
of materialistic bias. Moreover, it would be difficult to j j
overrate the importance to Spiritualists of a due comprehen- j |
sion and appreciation of the more important of the natural i j
laws which are outside of, but necessarily connected with, | i
those which constitute their special study. For Spiritualists j i
to say that the former—the physical—laws may be true, j j
but yet are of no interest to them, would be to adopt the | j
very worst form exhibited by certain of their adversaries, j j
From one point of view Spiritualism is the counter reac- I
tion to the reaction against superstition, in which science, i
“casting beyond itself in its conclusions,” may be said to j
have “ o’erleapt itself, and fallen on the other side.” There !
was, consequently, a danger, which Spiritualism proper has, !
I think, been singularly fortunate in avoiding, of a return j
to certain forms of error which may be classed with the I
superstitious, and against this danger a broad knowledge of !
natural law, so far as it is known, is the true safeguard. We |
have carefully to distinguish between rational and irrational I
conclusions on grounds of physical science. When a phy- I
sicist asserts that the “ levitations ” which have been so | j
* A paper read last Monday night before the Fritish National Association of Spiritualists. ; (
t Sir Gardner Wilkinson. ! 1
frequently observed in presence of certain “ mediums ” are
impossible, “ because they are contrary to the law of
gravity,” most -of us, perhaps, are inclined to give the
physicist undine credit at the expense of science. The thing
being,' to our knowledge, possible, we are inclined to say,
“ So much the worse for the law of gravity ! ” The truth
is, as we should all understand, that the law of gravity is
established beyond all doubt or question, and that it is
in reality the physicist who has merely made a blunder. If
you ask him, he will not deny that gravity may be overcome
by any force capable of communicating to the “ levitated ” *
body, in one second, a velocity greater than 32 J feet per
second; and, if you raise this body before his eyes, he will
not say that the effect is contrary to the law of gravitation.
Thus, if you;keep him to the: point, you will find, after a
little trouble, perhaps, that the grounds for his assertion are
one or both of the following :■—(a.) That Spiritualists assume
“levitations” to take place without the action of any force
counteracting that of gravity; (b.) That gravity cannot, in
the nature of things, be overcome by any force applied
through agents or agencies invisible to the observer. Now
the former proposition is purely gratuitous and contrary to
fact, and the latter would imply gross ignorance even of
physical science; \ it is, sufficiently for our present purpose,
refuted by the upward motion of the needles on the table
before you—their transport from the table to the poles of
the electro-magnet (which I now excite) being effected by
the invisible agency of magnetism. In this encounter the
Spiritualist would be the scientific, and the Physicist would
be the unscientific disputant. But let us take another case.
Suppose it were stated that, by spiritual or any other agency,
a railway train travelling at the rate of fifty miles an hour
could be instantly brought to rest without damage either to
the carriages or to their occupants. Any physicist would at
once deny this statement. Now this denial amounts simply
to an assertion of the principle of the conservation of energy,
and of its necessary consequences. For any admission of the
possible truth of the statement in question would simply imply
ignorance or denial of that principle. It is, in reality, a case in
which we have to elect between known fact and a statement
in direct opposition to it; between a conclusion verified by
hundreds of acute observers and laborious investigators, and
an unsupported contradiction of this conclusion. It is, in
fact, a case in which one of the conclusions is possible only
to ignorance, and only the other is possible to science.
Precisely the same would apply to the statement that a lamp
exists or has existed which could continue burning for 1,500
years, “ by means of a most pure liquor, contained in two
bottles, one of gold and the other of silver.”—(Vide Isis
Unveiled, vol. i. p. 227.) And when those who have studied
the forces of nature are told that these forces are “ beings ”
to which the name “ elemental ” spirit should be applied,
they might reply that it is hardly within their province to
refute a conclusion which is possible only to those who have
no knowledge of the verified facts in relation to these forces,
since it is in contradiction to the whole of these facts, and
is, moreover, exposed to a reductio ad absurdum in every
induction that can be made from it.
The popular signification of the word energy, viz., power
of doing work, is also the scientific one. In physics the
term is limited to the power of doing physical work, i.e.,
mechanical work or its equivalent. [Let us here note that
the domain of physical energy, and of spiritual or will energy,
remains as yet unexplored.] Thus energy is potential work,
and, if the conservation of energy be true, work should be
potential energy. Both, therefore, may be measured by and
expressed in terms of the same unit. What first concerns us
is the selection of some convenient unit of measurement for
mechanical energy and work. Now a common form of
mechanical work is the raising of heavy masses. Everybody
knows from experience that in this case the work done is
proportionate to the weight of the mass raised, and also to the
height to which it is raised, or to the weight multiplied into
the height. Now, popularly, the pound avoirdupois is taken
as a unit of weight; it is in reality a unit of mass, but, since
weight always varies sensibly as mass within a few miles of
the surface of the earth,* we may generally measure the
* At a height of 4,000 miles, the weight of 1 lb., or of 1 ton, would he about one-fourth, of
the weight of the same mass at the level of the sea.
250
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 24, 1878.
weight of a body by its rnass. As unit of length for the
measurement of height we may take the foot of twelve
inches. Our umt of work will thus be the foot-pound, or
one pound raised through one foot. And if we
Q designate work by W, mass by and height by
^ we have the relation :—
W = m X £ foot-pounds     (I.)
Thus, referring to the diagram, let the mass of
m be 5 lbs., and let it be raised 5 feet from the
surface (S) of the earth. Then the work done in
raising it will be
j ^ W = 5 X 5 = 25 foot-pounds.
| g ( And the same value will express the potential
energy stored up in the mass, or its energy of
position.
When we carefully consider the meaning of the expression
“ raising a weight,” we find that it signifies separating two
masses, one of which, in the present case, is the earth and
the other the mass m. The two masses are in fact pushed
apart; and it is indubitable that they are both caused to
move, although the motion of the earth is as much smaller
than that of m as its mass is larger. We are now enabled
to comprehend the following law:—In the separation of
masses, work is stored up as'potential energy (of position).
Can we not now, from data within our own experience,
formulate, at least hypothetically, a proposition applicable
to the contrary case ? We have all some experience of energy
of motion—kinetic energy, or, as it is sometimes called, visible
energy. When we have to jump any distance, we generally
u take a run ” in order to accumulate a little kinetic energy.
We cannot well doubt that some kind of energy is stored up
in a stone dropped from the top of a house, as well as in one
thrown by a boy, in projectiles of a more warlike character, or
in a railway train moving at the rate of fifty miles an hour.
And, bearing specially in mind the first example, we can
readily admit that:—When masses fall together, potential
energy becomes converted into kinetic energy.
Now, if we know the number of foot-pounds of work
which have been converted into kinetic energy, we shall have
no difficulty in expressing the latter in foot-pounds. Thus
the'mass m (in the diagram), if it be allowed to fall freely
through the distance between it and S, will obtain 25 foot¬
pounds of kinetic energy before it strikes the ground. Pre¬
sently, we shall imagine what becomes of the kinetic energy
whdn the movement is arrested.
Let us first, however, endeavour to obtain a further insight
into the philosophy of motion which has justly been termed the
key to nature. Motion is always produced by the action of a
force, a term which is correctly applied only to what is
familiarly known as a pressure or a pull. The motion of m
towards 8 is produced by the pull called gravity. Now
gravity is termed an accelerating force; because, when it
acts freely upon a mass, it produces uniformly accelerated
motion. It is measured by the velocity it communicates to
a falling mass, in vacuo, at the end of one second of time, or,
what is the same thing, by the velocity it communicates to a
mass in any given number of seconds, divided by the number
of seconds. Calling velocity, in feet per second v; the
number of seconds, t; and the force of gravity, g, we have
g =V-= 32£ feet
(II.)
since in one second gravity will communicate this velocity to
any falling body, if its action be unresisted.
Now, with this datum, by a very simple process of mathe¬
matical analysis applied to the factor h in our first formula,
we may arrive at several particulars—for instance, the time
it would take for m to fall through 5 feet, and the velocity
it would obtain at the end of this time; and at one most
important generalisation, viz., the measure, in foot-pounds,
of the kinetic energy stored up in any moving body. Let
us not be afraid of the expression “mathematical analysis,”
for this is merely a term expressing an operation which
happens to be convenient to us. We already know that
energy may be expressed %.s m x. h\ but, unfortunately, in
the case of a projectile or a railway train in motion, for
instance, we have no means of arriving at h, or the height
through which a body would have to fall, under the action
of gravity, in order to obtain a given velocity. If, however,
the velocity of a falling body were uniform, instead of uni¬
formly accelerated, we should have no difficulty in finding
an equation for h. In fact, we all of us know that in the
case of uniform velocity of motion, the distance moved
through is necessarily as the velocity multiplied into the time
of motion. We do not require to be informed that, if a
man be walking at the rate of four miles an hour, he will,
in three hours, have moved through a distance of three
times four, or twelve, miles. In the case of uniform motion
the distance moved through would be—
h = v X t
Thus, referring to diagram 2, let the line A B represent a
given velocity, and B D a given time during which a body
moves uniformly with that velocity, then the distance moved
through will be represented by the rectangular A B C D.
But suppose the body commences, at*the beginning of the
time BD, to move with a uniformly accelerated velocity,
until at the end of that time it obtains the velocity C D,
what will then be the distance moved through? It is
tolerably obvious that in this case we must multiply the
mean velocity into time in order to obtain this value. Now
the mean velocity will be just half the final velocity, v;
so that our formula becomes
h — z;Xt feet
(III.)
In this expression we may substitute for t its value as
derived from our second formula. Allow me to assume that
no one here has any knowledge of algebra. We at least
know that multiplication and division are converse opera¬
tions; so that if we remove a divisor on one side of an
equality, we must insert the same value as a multiplier on
the other side, and if we remove a multiplier on one side,
we must insert the same value as a divisor on the other.
We have thus
V
g X t = v and t - seconds ....
. 9
Substituting this value in formula III.,
(IV.)
ArIx^==2Veet   (nia)-
Therefore we may write, instead of W — mh,
. V2 V2
W = X 2^ =* m X gp foot-pounds (V.)
Now this is the equation for kinetic energy, which is well
worth any trouble we may have taken to obtain it.
A little algebra may be required to derive from formula
Ilia the following expression for the velocity obtained by
any body in falling freely through the distance h, viz.:—
v — s/ 64^ xh — 8-02 X f h feet per second.
Now from this last formula we find that the velocity
obtained by the mass m (in diagram 1) in falling freely
through 5 feet is
v = 8-02 x \/5 — 18 feet per second (nearly).
And, from formula Y, the kinetic energy stored up in it
when it obtains this velocity is
i>, 182
W = 5 X jrpr — 25 foot-pounds.
64#
Or the precise value of the work done in raising the mass
m through 5 feet.
By formula 1Y, the time taken by m to fall through 5
feet is
18
t — —- = -BO seconds (nearly).
32#
By the formula for kinetic energy, we find that the work
stored up in a railway truck weighing 3 tons and moving at
the rate of 40 miles an hour is over 160 foot tons, and that
the projectile of the 100-ton gun, weighing 2,000 lbs., and
moving with its initial velocity of 1,493 feet per second, has a
kinetic energy of no less than 30,913 foot tons. I may here
observe that even the latter velocity, and the terrific energy
associated with it, sink into insignificance in comparison
May 24, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
251
with those which are observable and calculable, when we I {
consider the movement of bodies in planetary space. We | <
are ourselves at the present moment moving, with our earth i <
in its orbit round the snn, with a velocity of over 87,000 j {
feet per sec., and some of the stupendous currents at the | <
surface of the sun have been observed to move with a j,
velocity of 100 miles per second. | j
We may now consider whether the separation of molecules j <
is attended with a conversion of work into potential energy, j <
We have here a magneto-electric machine, by means of which | j
we can force asunder the oxygen and hydrogen atoms, or i j
molecules, which, when combined, constitute water. The | j
fluid is thus converted into a mixture of the two gases, j i
You perceive that my assistant has to work pretty hard in !
order to evolve the bubbles of gas which are now rising i
through the fluid and filling the bottle. I may as well at j
once tell you, whilst we are waiting, that 743 foot-pounds !
of work have to be expended in order to decompose one j
grain of water—in addition to the work required in order to j
overcome the friction of the machine and to urge the electric j (
current through the wire portion of the circuit. This work i j
becomes stored up in the liberated gases as 'potential energy j J
of chemical separation. When the gases are caused to re- j1
combine, by means of a flame applied to the mouth of the 11
bottle, this is suddenly converted into actual energy, which j |
becomes evidenced by an explosive effect of expansion, and I
which ultimately assumes the form of heat. By this experiment j
three very important facts are brought into evidence: 1st, j
that In the separation of the constituent atoms, or molecules,
of compound bodies, work becomes stored up as potential energy
(of chemical separation) ; 2ndly, that When atoms, or
molecules, fall together, potential energy becomes converted into j
heat; and, 3rdly, that Heat is a mode or form of energy.
We now place a rather thin platinum wire in the circuit i
of the machine. Observe that the moment my assistant j
begins to work the machine the wire becomes red, and after- j
wards white hot. For every 772 foot-pounds of work j
expended by him, in addition to the work required to over- j
come friction, &c. (which also takes the form of heat), a j
unit of heat, i.e., sufficient heat to raise the temperature of j
1 lb_ of water by 1 degree Fahrenheit, is generated in the j
wire. This value, 772 foot-pounds, is known as the mechomical j
.equivalent of heat. It was determined by Prof. Joule, through
the process of churning water—an operation in which energy
would formerly have been supposed to be utterly lost and j
annihilated.
We are now, I think, in a position to form at least a very |
shrewd guess as to what becomes of kinetic energy when
the motion of a body is suddenly arrested. The rectilinear
motion is, in fact, converted into the vibratory motion we j
term heat. If we pick up a rifle bullet after it has struck
the target, we find that it is hot. At Shoeburyness a flash
of light may be seen when the projectiles strike the armour
plates. It is amply demonstrated by experiment as well as j
by inductive reasoning that a unit of heat is produced for
every 772 foot-pounds of kinetic energy disappearing. And
perhaps the reference that has been made to the enormous
velocities which occur in our solar system may have prepared j
you for the statement that the heat and light of the sun are
due to the conversion of kinetic energy. So far from the
sun being, as is popularly supposed, a huge bonfire, it is
improbable that anything of the nature of combustion takes j
place upon its surface. Its heat, which is the source, directly j
or indirectly, of nearly the whole of the energy manifested |
as motion and life on the surface of our earth, is derived
indubitably from asteroids, which with enormous velocity
impinge upon its surface. Like Saturn, the sun is devour¬
ing his own children ; and there is no doubt but that first |
Mercury, then Yenus, and next the Earth and its moon will ]
ultimately supply it with kinetic energy, and form portion
of its mass.
There is one important bearing, which should at least be |
mentioned, of the present subject matter upon some of the j
marvellous phenomena which take place at our seances, j
There is no doubt whatever but that physical energy, fre¬
quently measured by hundreds of foot-pounds, is exerted j
and converted by agents other than the medium and sitters |
—as, for instance, in the floating of a heavy musical box j
round the room. The moment we have satisfied ourselves 1
that this energy, or “power,’’ is derived or <c drawn” from
the medium and sitters, it becomes from our point of view
almost certain that something material—ponderable matter,
or “ psychical matter”—in which potential energy has been
previously stored up by the separation of molecules, and
through which work may be done by the conversion of
energy as those fall together, is actually taken from them by
the manifesting agent. It is probable also that this vehicle
for energy is ultimately restored to the medium and sitters,
in order that energy may again be stored up in it from the
food which is taken into the system.
And now, in conclusion, what are we to say, what can we
say, in reference to that portion of the u views of the Theoso-
phists ” which relates to “elemental” spirits?* Rerum
causis superfluis Natura non luxuriat! Is it not evident
that these “ errant unthinking, soulless forces of nature ”
must be relegated to the limbo of hermetic, cabalistical, and.
mediaeval superstitions ? Can we . make any essential
distinction between the kinetic energy of a mass of air or
water, moving with a certain velocity, and that of a railway
train or a projectile also in motion? Is the “force of the
wind, the fire, the flood ” to be an elemental spirit, and that
of the truck or cannon ball a more material kind of energy ?
Or is it also an elemental that animates Master Tommy’s
cricket ball and marbles ? In any case, we should certainly
like to know what is the minimum number of foot-pounds
constituting or equivalent to one of these “ creatures of
immutable law.” And we should also particularly like to
have some estimate of the quantity of energy stored up in a
single drop of “ the most pure liquor,” previously referred to,
which fed the “burning lamp ” mentioned by Scardeonins,
and, I fear, more or less believed in by certain Theosophists.
We could then form an idea of the destructive effects which
would ensue if the drop in question were thrown upon the
fire, and perhaps make some interesting comparisons between
it and dynamite or other powerful explosives.
CottesponTience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.]
PERPLEXING EXPERIENCES.
Sir,—Permit me through your columns >to thank your lady corre¬
spondent for her excellent letter under the above heading. Perhaps a
word or two in reference to the message in question, and the way in
which it was given, will help to solve the problem. Mr. Carson and his
son, who were perfect strangers to me, attended on one occasion the Friday
night seance at 8, Upper Bedford-place, London, which I held for the pur¬
pose of development. For some little time I felt uneasy ; a strange and
unfamiliar influence affected me; in a short time I was made to rub my
leg as if in great pain, and then my head in a similar manner. During
the whole of the pantomimic performance I was quite conscious, and
felt that it was a spirit desiring to make himself known to the strangers.
When this influence was withdrawn, I was controlled by my Indian
spirit guide, who gave a description of the spirit who had attempted to
control me to speak (which description was, unfortunately, never taken
down, or it would have decided the point of the presence of Mr. Burt),
and at the same time mentioned the fact that the spirit desiring to
manifest had but recently passed into spirit-life, and had done so on the
other side of the globe. This led Mr. Carson to inquire if it was a son
of his in Australia, whereupon my hand was suddenly controlled to write
the message in question. These recollections are vividly in my mind,
for the reason that after the seance was over Mrs. Burke and Mrs.
Wallis informed me what had taken place from the time that I was con¬
trolled ; also that the stranger gentleman had gone away unable to
identify the manifesting spirit, which caused me much dissatisfaction
and annoyance, as I hoped a good test would be given. You may be
sure, then, that I was quite delighted to hear, a few months later, of the
verification of the message by news from Australia, which Mr. Carson
came to inform me of himself, thinking it would please and encourage
me. The point or importance of the whole occurrence to me was that
I did not know anything at all of any of the persons concerned. Neither
Mr. Carson nor his son, who was present, knew aught in regard to the
alleged friendship existing between his son in Australia and Mr. Burt,
or even of the existence of Mr. Burt, much less the peculiar circum¬
stances attending his decease. There is the fact, too, that the news of
his death was thus obtained before it could be transmitted by ordinary
mundane means.
But Mr. C. C. Massey raises the question of the source of the com¬
munication and the intelligence communicating, and because the words,
“ I am in great pain,” and “ I have been wounded," instead of ‘‘killed,”
are used, he infers that it was not Mr. Burt from whom the message
proceeded.
Now, I think it is generally admitted that spirits who communicate
for the first time experience very much the same sufferings in entering
* Vide The Spiritualist, December 7th,'lS77.
252
THE SPIRITUALIST,
into sympathetic relation with the medium as they underwent in quitting
their own earth body.* Frequently, too, they cause the medium to per¬
sonate the whole of their death scene, and it was so in this case.
Personally I have no more doubt of the presence and influence of Mr.
Burt, than I have of the fact that it was through my organism that he
manifested by pantomimic representation the pain he suffered ere he
stated the cause in writing, and I feel little doubt that he experienced
sensations of pain in endeavouring to maftifest, or he would have con¬
trolled me to speak instead of write.
Supposing Mr. Burt to have said I have been “ hilled ’’ by the kick of
a horse, &c., it would strongly resemble that traditional son of Erin who,
after having fallen from a ladder to the ground, being asked if he was
much hurt, lustily replied, “ Begorra, and I’m kilt entirely.”
At another of the Friday night stances, the following facts were after¬
wards reported to me as having occurred. I was controlled by my Indian
guide, who turned to Dr. Slade Cone of the sitters), described his wife
to him, and mentioned the fact that—as he put it—*•' the lady has very
thin hair; no, me don’t mean thin, a little hair, she has a lot of hair,
but very fine and delicate.” Dr. Slade, in speaking of it afterwards,
said it was quite true ; friends used to tell his wife her hair was split, it
was so fine. The same night the control described a spirit relative
behind a lady present, and said, “He holds out a roll of papers to you,
and says, Don’t fret or worry, you will get the papers all right; they are
on their way.” About a month afterwards the lady informed me of this,
and added, ‘‘I had been very anxious about some papers relating to
property, and had been to all the mediums, and could not get any in¬
formation, so gave up all hope; but when my brother was described I
recognised him at once, and he always spoke the truth, so I knew it
would be all right, and did not worry any more. The papers came as
stated a few days afterwards.” A noticeable feature here is the fact
that while she was anxious the communication could not be given, but
a passive state of mind being obtained, the desired information was
given quite unexpectedly. E. W. Wallis.
MR. AND MISS DIETZ.
Sir,—You have often said a good word for Mr. and Miss Dietz
and their entertainments, and I should much like to say another. The
line of life these young people have chosen is more than commonly
arduous, and as praiseworthy as arduous: and those who recognise
their courage and their merit would, I feel sure, gladly assist
and co-operate with them if they knew how. Wherefore, let me
inform their admirers that Mr. and Miss Dietz are anxious to
obtain engagements at literary and other institutions throughout the
country ; and whoever has influence in such quarters, should use it for
their advantage. They are also prepared to give recitations in drawing¬
rooms, and where guests are many and entertainment dull, it^would be
as fresh air and sunshine to hear Hans Christian Andersen’s “ Swine¬
herd,” or Mark Twain’s “ Jumping Frog.” Carlyle says ” that in
our amusements, which are voluntary and not compulsory things, we are
to abhor unveracity most impatiently, and ever exact what is truest
and best.” I sometimes fear that Mr. and Miss Dietz take Carlyle too
literally, and set the standard of their selections rather high; and that
if their poetry were more matter-of-fact and less sentimental and
spiritual, they would gain in popularity, and be quite as wholesome and
refreshing. On this head, however, I expect to be contradicted, but it is
always pleasant to deliver one’s opinion unreservedly. Wm. White.
3, Cornwall Residences, Clarence-gate, Regent’s-park, N.W.
WEIGHING MATERIALISED SPIRITS.
Sik,—It would be a valuable contribution to the facts of lt form
manifestations ” if it could be arranged to weigh the “ forms ” as well
as .the mediums. The conservation of force and the indestructibility
of matter are no doubt fulfilled in these manifestations, and it would be
interesting to know if the weight abstracted from the medium is trans¬
lated to the “form” manifested. Also, whether the weight of the
“ form” can be varied while on the scale plate, and whether such alter¬
nation of weight in the form has a corresponding alternation in the
weight of the medium. J. J. Morse.
THE DOOM OF THE SEAFORTHS.
Sir,—Having perused with much interest the doom of the Seaforths
in your journal (of which, however, I am only a casual reader), allow me
to record another marvellous fulfilment of a legendary prophecy con¬
cerning the same race, with which I have been personally acquainted.
In so doing, I must crave your patience for inflicting upon your readers
much merely genealogical and family history, which, however, is neces¬
sary in order to make the fulfilment plain. I must also dissent from my
fellow clansmen of Inverness in their statement that the last of the
Seaforths died in 1815.
Francis Humberstone Mackenzie, the last bearing the title of Earl of
Seafortb, was the last descendant of a collateral branch, and in truth not
the rightful possessor of the title or chieftainship of the Mackenzies.
The facts, shortly stated, I believe to be these, though, as I quote only
from memory, there may be some errors in my account.
Earl William, son of Earl Kenneth (the Earl of the legend above
referred to), had two sons, Kenneth Lord Fortrose, and James, whose
existence can only be traced with great difficulty in public documents,
though in certain family archives, to which at one time I had access,
his and his descendants’ history is fully revealed; and I doubt not were
the papers concerning the Jacobite intrigues, now resting both in the
State Paper Office and in the Vatican, to be at all accessible, there
would be unrolled a very curious and interesting chapter concerning the
family history of the, in reality, elder line of the Seaforths. This
James was born in France during his father’s exile for his adherence to
the Stuart cause. The title of Earl William was attainted by the
* This is a fact verified through many different mediums.—Ed.
May 24, 1878.
Hanoverians, but after some time he made his peace with them, and
retired to the Isle of Lewis, where he died in 1740. TTis son, Lord
Fortrose, inherited the chieftainship, but, in consequence of the
attainder, could not take the higher title. During the attempt of Prince
Charles Edward he took the winning side, greatly to the disgust of his
brother and part of the clan, who were staunch Jacobites. However, he
was rewarded for his faithfulness to the Georges in the person of his
son, the second Lord Fortrose, who was created Earl of Seaforth in the
Irish peerage by George III. This Kenneth, Earl of Seaforth, died
without leaving any issue, and the title and estates passed, not to
the descendants of his uncle, but to the posterity of the Hon. Col.
Alexander Mackenzie, brother of his grandfather, tfie Earl William, and
it was this line which became extinct in 1815.
The prophecy to which I referred is as follows, loosely rendered into
English:—“ Woe to the line of Kenneth; let their bards break their
harps, and sweep the strings no more, nor praise the chiefs of ancient
days. Kenneth shall be sundered as a stick that is cleft. And when
Flann’s ruins receive his heir shall Kenneth’s name be lost. When
Lochlin (Gaelic for ‘ Norway’) has Kenneth’s son, again shall Kenneth’s
name be lost, and he shall sell it for yellow gold brought from (or out of)
a distaff (meaning apparently by the wife). Yet shall not the gold
gladden his eyes, for he shall lose his life a nine months’ journey to
the rising son. One son of Kenneth’s yet shall live, but who remembereth
Kenneth ? ”
I will now proceed to trace the fortunes of the elder line of the Sea¬
forths, which appears almost a literal fulfilment of the above prophecy.
James, the younger brother of Lord Fortrose, during his father’s life¬
time seems to have retired to the western parts of Lewis, where he
possessed lands at Uig, the Island of Bernera, Carloway, with the
rocky islets of Flannan (though I believe that at the present day most
of that part of the country is held by the Macleods). He was a loyal
follower of the Stuart princes, and was continually engaged in secret
plots for their cause. In 1745 he retired to the Flannan Isles, with a
small portion of the clan, in disgust at his brother’s treachery to Prince
Charles Edward. Though he seems still to have held the lands he
owned on the mainland, he was generally called James nan Seaforth
(nan being Gaelic for “ of”), so that the surname of Mackenzie was thus
dropped, and the territorial title assumed instead of a surname. He
was also called Cean (head or chief) of Flannena, as were his
descendants. He died in 1759, leaving a son Charles nan Seaforth,
who upon the death of Lord Fortrose (created Earl by George III.) was
the undoubted rightful heir to the title, chieftanship, and estates, but being
an earnest Jacobite he could not press his claims without acknowledgment
of the Hanoverian dynasty, which he would not consent to do, so that
by reason of his comparative poverty and retirement of living he and his
descendants were quite forgotten by the outward world. His son James
Kenneth nan Seaforth became connected with Norway by marriage,
and acquired lands there. He left a son Charles nan Seaforth, in
whose time the Flannan Isles were almost, if not quite, depopulated,
and the remnant of the clan retired to Norway. This Charles nan Sea¬
forth, I believe, died about 1858 or 1859. He left two sons ; the elder,
James, was a few years ago alive and residing in Norway, but has no
children. The younger, Charles, contracted a marriage with an English
lady, which greatly angered his father. On his marriage, in conse¬
quence of some promises made by a relation of his wife’s family, he
dropped the surname of Seaforth, and adopted another. He obtained
a commission in one of the Company’s regiments, and with his young
wife and infant son went out to India, where he was slain during the
mutiny. His wife died soon after, and though I was personally
acquainted with him in India, I have never been able to ascertain what
became of the son.
Thus these two distinct prophecies have been fulfilled in two separate
branches of the family in a most marvellous and remarkable manner,
though reading them side by side they would appear completely contra¬
dictory of one another. The prophecy I have given is supposed to have
been uttered by an Italian lady, carried away captive by one of the
fierce Viking progenitors of the Seaforths in the thirteenth or fourteenth
century. David Mackenzie.
Tufnell-park, N., May 14,1878.
AVAR.
Sir,—I regret your having, in my letter to you {Spiritualist, No. 298,
page 222), published a passage relating to Lord Beaconsfield, which
passage I meant to have been kept private between you and me, but
forgot to let you know my wish.
However illogical and implacable may be Lord Beaconsfield’s hatred of
my Emperor, and however little I am able to comprehend the motives
he may have for dragging into useless and dreadful slaughter two great
nations, of which one at least would be happy to remain on good terms
with the other, I nevertheless (referring to the laws established in duel)
consider it an indelicacy on my part to throw ridicule at a person with
the champions of whose policy I am perhaps on the eve of crossing
swords. Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
Yevey, Switzerland, May 13th.
Mrs. Andrews, of Springfield, Massachusetts, a well-known literary
worker in the cause of Spiritualism in the United States, will leave for
England on the 4th of June, and take up her residence in Brighton.
She brings letters of introduction from Mr. Epes Sargent to several
English Spiritualists.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A.—At this busy time of the year, how can yon expect that all the persons
through whose hands your letters would pass in the printing office, will
lose time and patience in puzzling out the meaning of your indistinct
writing?
May 24, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original-
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a msisterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
Sy vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single
volume.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description oj Manifestation
recenth] produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions oe the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and 'hose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
Now Ready, Price 2s. 6d.,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
The Spiritualists’ Quarterly, for April.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.”
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . -
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. . „ II. . „
The Seer. „ III. „ . .
The Reformer. „ IV. „ .
The Thinker. !• Y „ ..
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis .
Aratrala, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil - .
Harbinger of Health . . . . •
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . •
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Jlheology .
Morning Lectures . . . . .
si d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 0
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
* 3 6
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 5 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
. 3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . • . . . .24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . , is
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Transited into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D,D. . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind!; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. .... . ... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale , 10
CONTENTS:—
Editor’s Address.
I.—Ethics of the New Age.
II.—Experiences of Astrology in India.
III. —Mystical Poetry.
IV. —Modern Materialism.
V.—Dante and Beatrice.
VI.—The Sentiment of Immortality.
VII.—A Seance with Mrs. Marshall.
VIII.—Pilgrimages in France. No. 1.—To Paray-le-Monial.
IX.—Psychography.
X.—Buddhism and Christianity.
XI.—The Miracle Land.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems icere given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. Tiie Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIIL Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXL Love.—XXII. “For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. liesurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin.—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.,
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London: 38, Great Russell-street. W. H. Harrison.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin's discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, ill 10s,
London; W. I]. Harrison, 33, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” ON
PSYCHOGRAPHY,
Illustrated loith Diagrams,
synopsis of contents.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psycography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics
General Corroborative Evidence,
l.—lhat Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter,J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II. —From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E\ idence of Hon. It. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III. —From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation o /
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Biake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—" O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship ot
Cora L. Y. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakot—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marry at—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Luoia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burae—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By tlie Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism,
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey—
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F:R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
 W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C. 
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should he multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about", or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
IV
THE SPIRIT UALIST,
May 24, 1878.
A
NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEAN’S-
T ORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated the other
-Li day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which ail their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
EHO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Siomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the ' many
• and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
fVom poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against- the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.’’—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
IT'NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
L-J “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
FJUNO’S FRUIT SALT.— A Lady writes : —
“ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that' I must have
succumbed before long.’’
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A
GENERAL L iXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THJ! VARIQDS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BET' PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit, in the natural way
n which it relieves the svstem of effete of poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays >
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous'system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.  • ■ . : - -
ENO’S F£I£[T SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most "dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are,Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent torm.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this, preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its. effect, in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
Tj" NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
Lli with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved" its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease
“ On April lf I purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
butvery badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep'
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
toallmy friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. — I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 80,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
/CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—End’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
*«.’« Agent 'or Paris—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE 'LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BT "WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of, the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shaeabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited Loudon on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed -Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejato Ballads, by Anthony Wgbblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary, ,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity.. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. . ..
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaio Ballads.:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”.
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability... . Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion, .
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to pi ant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
ali who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays." ■
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.si. ,5877 (Torquemada) ; .a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others" in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A.l Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whosjename is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literatnVe, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book.,.’How Hadji,al Shacabac-was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.” ■
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it Is naturally to be expected,
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed, they are as free, and-easy as himself.. . .. The
poems" are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cldth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the" cover. ... If our readers wish to'en-'
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
" “ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-KOok elegant in its appear-'
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily-Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-hook of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of. great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many tirp es over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeju’cd in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
ani iVhich created such a furore at the time.” \_N.ll.An
irrjs member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. | The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is "bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
AY. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, AY.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR .
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the.late "VYm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission" to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had hound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—lb Occurs Spontaneously - in Sleep-AValkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—^Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in YariousWays—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Yarious
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent AVill; and at a
Distance—^Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the AYaking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic AVam-
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Olauvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER Y:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or AYaking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Gol. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S >iritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of i’nrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — SnaU Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IXAction of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvovance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER" X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of "Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Siibiect—Effects of Gdyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits' of Scientific Cadtion—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success, ^ Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State'—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Gases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley's Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces AVaking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Oases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised AVater
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIVI—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Cleyrg-
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
GHaPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, "W.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge; & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-sibove-Bar and St George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
