Registered as a Newspaper.
(Dlbtsi rxrimK^b toxf^r Sprxiwalxsm m <&xmt §nfam*
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON: n, Ave Maria^lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 346, Boule.
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia.
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 3ig, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 329.—(Vol. XIII.—No. 24.) LONDON : FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
The Religious Side of Spiritualism  ... 277
Physical and Spiritual Growth. By J. E. Rees 277
The Psychological Society 278
A Seance with Miss Cook  ... ... 278
Departure of Mr. Martheze on a Voyage Round the "World 279
Correspondence:—Spiritualism Northwards—Would the
Chapel Deacon System be Beneficial to Spiritualism ?
—The Psychology of the Play of Macbeth—A Seance at
Newcastle — Dr. Forbes Winslow’s Statistics —The
Healing Powers of Mesmerism .' ... ... 279
The Action of One Mind upon Another. By A. G. Cranstoun 282
When and Where was the First Seance held in England ? 282
The British National Association of Spiritualists. The
Debate on Captain Burton’s Paper    283
The Last of Baron De Palm   286
The Stigmata ...     287
The Powers of the Human Spirit 288
Answers to Correspondents  *. 288
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869,
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
J- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present fime,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness ;\His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet; the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President or the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ol
the‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O,
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Oapucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Oorso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Cblaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne; 96, Russell-etreet. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.C.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CALENDAR FOR DECEMBER, 1878.
Friday, 13fft.—Experimental Research Committee,"at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 16tfft,—Discussion Meeting. Mr. Stainton Moses,
M.A., on “ The Intelligent Operator at
the Other End of the Line."
Friday, 20<ft.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ ,, Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30.
CHRISTMAS CLOSING.
The Offices of the Association will be closed on Monday
evening, 23rd, and reopened on Monday, 30th, at 2 p.m.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Members and Visitors are requested to note that on and
after Dec. 30th the Offices of the Association will be open only
between the hours of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m., except on Saturdays,
when they will be open from 10 a.m. till 1 p.m.
By Order, E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
brixton psychological society.
OFFICES—6, Akebman-road, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
British museum lectures.—a
Course of Three Lectures (with the permission of the
authorities) will be given by C. Carter Blake, Doct. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy and Zoology, Westminster
Hospital, on Jan. 4, Jan. 7, and Jan. 11. Hours 11 to 1. Tickets
5s. each. Address C. Carter Blake, care of 38, Great Russell-
street, W.C.
Iadbroke hall, ladbroke
J GROVE ROAD, NOTTING HILL, W. (Not Netting
Hill Gate).
A SERIES OF SUNDAY SERVICES for the dissemination
of the Gospel of Spiritual Truth are in course of delivery in
the above Hall, by W. H. L AMBELLE, who will deliver a
course of addresses on the “ ORIGIN OF RELIGIOUS RITES
AND CEREMONIES.”
Doors open at 6.30 and closed at 7 promptly, to prevent
interruption during the progress of the Services.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following engagements:—Perry Barr Institute,
December 3,1878; New Swindon Mechanics’ Institute, January
8,1879. Coalbrookdale Literary Institute, January 21 (Second
time this season). Hastings, Gensing Hall, Afternoon and
Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial Society, February
4. Leamington Institute, February 25. Croydon Literary
Institution, March 6- (2nd time). Favourable terms arranged
with Institutes en route. For particulars address Mr. Frank
Dietz, 54, Denbigh Street, London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland
Street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
January 15th, 1879, February 12th, March 12th, April 9th, May
14th, June 11th. Tickets for the Series One Guinea each.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE, a narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Nov. 4.—Mr. Bonwick, F.R.G.S., “ Soul Ideas amongst the
Ancient Egyptians."
Nov. 18.—Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, “ Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 1.” ;
Dec. 2.—Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., “ Spiritualism in
Eastern Lands.”
Dec. 16.—Mr. Stainton-Mqses, M.A., “ The intelligent Operator
at the other end of the Line.”
Jan. 20.—Mr. W. H. Harrison, “ Hauntings.”
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “Apparitions of the Living."’
Feb. 17.—Dr. Carter Blake, “ On the Nerve Ether.”
March 3.—Dr. Wyld. “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mrs. Ellis, “ Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2.”
April 7.—Dr. Bloede, “ Psychometry.”
April 21.—Mr. C. O. Massey, “ On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May 5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “Review of the Session."
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, <fcc., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions c f
events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
LADY SPIRITUALIST would be happy to
meet with another to share her superior residence, and
join her in Spiritualistic investigations. A., 2, Scarsdale
Villas, Kensington, S., London.
A LADY would be happy to offer her services
as AMANUENSIS or READER to an Invalid Lady or
Gentleman,—Mrs. Hamilton, Post-office, Walham Gre'en, S.W.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Dec. 13, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Caider, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1. Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Geralfl, Mrs , 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G-, M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdonaall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, IV.
Honvwood. Mrs.. 62, Warwick-sqnare, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.E.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C-, Barrister-at-Law, Haracourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, JST.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberiand-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adsbead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill. V
Bfnney, F A.. 24, St Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S.
Chapman, John, 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fahyan, 5, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H . 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., sq. Tufnell-park-road. Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R.. 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage. Sbooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H,, 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20. Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, MA C E.. Junior United Service Club, S.W,
Lament, John, 199, London-road. Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W„ 11, Mitre-courf, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16. Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Reirrers, Christian, 47, Mornington-road, Regent’s-park.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redclifle-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Bromptor,
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford,
Theohald, Morell, 62, Granville,-parir, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner. J. P., Avenne-road, Leamington.
Wa.lhouse, M.J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leedfl.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Caider, Esq,, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-sauare, Bayswater, W.
Withal!, Miss TT., 1. The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Uonoi'ary Treasurer.
Alex. Caider, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
3. W> Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq,
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great, Rnssell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
rhe Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
II. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esn., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq -, Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Rlko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Pefty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Genmany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russeli-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Olavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq.. 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq , H, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de 1’Europe,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassomoierre. 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs. Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hlll,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epr^jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54,Denbign-street, Belgr&ve-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road. S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet. Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.,
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-iane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Rephblica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—n. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XU. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXL Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexl—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth:
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department:
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “HeavenOpened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
T3RIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
-S3 tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St, James’s-street; andMr.Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from S o'clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terraoe, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds qf Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’olook. 173, Rne St. Honor’d,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinees. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE-
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
eare of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 year s
established), attends Patients and maybe consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MESMERIC HEALER.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Yernon-place, Blooms-
hury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5.
MR. HOWARD COTTON, Painting Me¬
dium, desires employment for architectural or other
drawings. Care of Pearce, stationer, Coleherne-terrace,
Redcliffe-square, Brompton.
MADAME ZACHRAU, the great American
Natural Clairvoyant and Phrenologist. Consultations
from 10 till 6, at 25, Granville-square, King's-cross-road,
London, W.O.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15,h of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, II, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
Brighton.—miss wood, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. Terms on ap¬
plication.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3 per week
each ; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Coq-
sonnerie, Paris.
Ko.• 329.—Volume Thirteen; Kumber Twejmty-Fou^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13th, 1878.
THE RELIGIOUS SIDE OF SPIRITUALISM.
Perhaps nothing would be more beneficial to Spiritualism
in London at the present time than a series of Sunday morn¬
ing services and ministrations, of sufficiently good quality to
bring together those Spiritualists who now attend other
places of worship at the West End. To do this high
ability must be utilised, and among Spiritualists some may
be found willing and able to do the work, if invited. An
alternation of normal and trance addresses would probably
answer as well as it did some years ago in Liverpool.
The truest and most solid progress in Spiritualism will be
made by philosophical research, although at first sight such
method appears to have a destructive effect upon ideality.
The poet of past times who might have written sarcastic
verses about the details of the plodding work of the
astronomer in his observatory, would have had but
temporary triumph; that patient work has enlarged a
millionfold and more the universe previously pictured to
man’s knowledge; it has diminished our little world
to a fragment of star-dust among countless others
pursuing their silent courses in stellar space; it has
revealed suns and systems innumerable, and furnished a
broader theatre for the exercise of the idealistic and religious
sentiments than our imaginary sarcastic poet could have
conceived. Just so is it to-day. Those who confine them¬
selves to prayers and praises, but who cannot criticise or
investigate, appear for the moment to be in the van of
religious progress, but their brethren who investigate and
slowly eliminate law after law from patiently verified facts,
in the long run will be found to have unravelled the principles
by which soul and body are united, and to have placed the
truth of man’s continued existence on Such a basis of clear
evidence, that all the great intellectual force of the material¬
istic scientific world will be powerless to shake the edifice.
Mere preaching, either inside or outside Spiritualism, can
raise no such structure, and the intellectual world is getting
tired of the drawing upon the inner-consciousness for in¬
formation about a future life, instead of drawing upon
evidence which can be verified.
PHYSICAL AND SPIRITUAL GROWTH.
BT J. E. REES.
In our eager investigation of phenomena which appear to
us to be outside [the ordinary course of nature, we are, per¬
haps, liable to overlook the marvellous operations with which
custom has made us familiar. Take, for example, the
mystery of the u quiet growth ” of nature. The universal
law of life is and must be growth. This fact is so trite that
we do not pause to consider how wonderful it is. And yet
to a thoughtful mind how marvellous are the imperceptible
processes of the growth of vegetable and organic life.
The stealthy insidious monotony of growth! How im¬
possible we find it to mark the actual transition from infancy
to youth, from youth to manhood, from manhood to old age.
By quiet advances, by unrecognisable degrees, growth
asserts itself, and, with its silent agency, produces manifold
results. The keenest observer has never yet determined the
actual moment of the change from seed to shoot, from shoot
to bud, from bud to flower. We scarcely note the passing
day, yet, in its inexorable course, growth acts alike upon
body, mind, and spirit.
Nature knows no pause—no irregularity in her course.
Following the eternal law of order and of growth, the cease¬
less infinitesimal actions of progress succeed each other in
unvarying monotony.
The unseen agency of Providence works by operations too
minute for observation. In our ignorance we too often
forget this, and in our anxiety to discover some great thing
we set at nought the wisdom of nature’s laws, and fashion
others for ourselves. Yet in this law of growth lies all that
| we know of compensation here, and all that we can best hope
of eternity hereafter.
In early life, when bodily growth is most active, and we
| are most susceptible to its influence, we little realise the
possibilities of our later years. How energetically we
II declare that we cannot outlive the emotions of our youthful
(| passions, and how assured we are that our principles and
| sentiments are unchangeable. When our first trouble meets
(| us we cry out that we must die, that no one can suffer so
(| and live; but nature asserts her law, and mind and body
alike survive the storm. Later, when the clouds gather
| again, we stand aghast. Sorrow, calamity, affliction, in
\ j their turn assail us; our hearts fail, we feel that life is un-
! endurable, that the crushing load of sorrow and of anxiety
| cannot be carried, but we are stronger than we know. The
j (| anguish of the present becomes the anguish of the past, and
i I j still the steady growth of mind and spirit repairs the wasted
| j energies, builds up the shattered fabric. The grass grows
j j | over the grave, the spirit reasserts itself. We smile once
III more ; and before we are ready to acknowledge it the quiet^
| unseen agency of growth has healed the wound, and only a
scar bears witness to the agony of the past,
j From the cradle to the grave, without one interval or
I pause, we grow, and when the link which binds the spirit to
j j its tenement of clay is snapped asunder/the silent agency of
| | growth but changes in its course, and, without hesitancy
111 or delay, consigns the particles which formed the body to the
j (I promotion of some other organism.
111 And by every law of analogy, by every argument of
| ! reason, the spirit released from its prison must be growing
| too. It was a keen appreciation of this inevitable law which
| | first drew my attention to the phenomena of Spiritualism,
i j for in them I hoped to find some confirmation of the con-
| | tinued progress of the spirit in the hereafter.
| | Now, if the spirit lives, as we believe it does, and freed
| | from its burden of flesh continues the existence commenced
I | here or elsewhere, it follows as a natural deduction that it
| grows. Life without growth is an anomaly, and growth of
) I whatever kind must be in strict accordance with the law of
i life. It would therefore appear that the spirit released
I i would in no essential differ from the spirit enchained, and
I j that excepting for the fact that it will take place under im-
| | proved conditions, its progress in the spirit-world must be
| j analogous to its progress here.
I ! This truth, if acknowledged at once, meets the objection
| I most often adduced to so-called spirit communications that
| | they are frivolous and unworthy of spirits.
| | If growth in the spirit-world bears any relation to growth
| | here, it is gradual, imperceptible, and amenable to an eternal
| | law. There can then be no sudden change at death; the
| j spirit which to-day is with us is no whit different when
! | to-morrow it is somewhere else. This would appear to be
| I the direct teaching of modern spiritism, and if it be so it is
11! in no way in opposition to the laws of religion, natural or
j revealed. It is contrary to all that we know of the workings
; j of Providence to suppose that any radical change takes place
j ! directly the spirit is released from the encumbrance of its
| I bodily frame.
I (| What it has been here, it will, it must of necessity be
| there, upon its first entrance into the new life. And once
| v there its spiritual growth must be in strict accordance with
! i law. Why should the law for the spirit flown be other than
| ! that which governed it here? It is just the recognition of
| | this truth that growth is essential to life, which revolts the
11 mind against the acceptation of the orthodox views of
! | heaven and hell. Where there is life there^must be growth ;
[|i where there is growth there must also be progress of some
278
THE SPIBITUALIST.
Dec. 13, 1878.
sort, in some direction; and by every known analogy the
growth will be gradual and progressive.
The spirit, fitted by its probationary earth life for a higher
sphere, will, following the inevitable law of growth, find,
without shock or change, its level, and enter upon an exist¬
ence in simple continuation of its earth-bound life. And
upon the same ground the spirit, which here from lack of
education or from perversity has attained a lower standard,
will follow the natural laws of its growth.
This being so, the deduction must be that spirits, if they
communicate at all, will do so in styles and with objects as
varied as our earthly companions. Those who were frivolous
here will be frivolous there, and delight in frivolous mani¬
festations ; and it is absurd to suppose that the mere release
from the body can endow the spirit at once with knowledge
or wisdom very far in advance of its earthly attainment.
That those who have long left the earth have progressed is a
necessary sequence; and if they could so far oppose the
necessary condition of spirit-life as to revisit earth, no doubt
they could teach us much—but—can they ? In time the
action of growth must carry the spirit further and further
from us, and lessen the influences which in its earlier spirit-
life may have surrounded it. Here lies the attractive teach¬
ing of spiritism, and in this it violates no known law, and if it
is contrary to our prejudices, it may be possibly, because
“ custom doth lie upon us” so heavenly that we are afraid
to think for ourselves. If we consider that growth is the
essential law of life, we cannot believe that at death the
spirit finds its finality. If we accept the belief of the
spirit’s progress, we open up for ourselves and others a
future of hope and of satisfaction which we can never find
in a stereotyped and final heaven.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
At the last two meetings of the Psychological Society, held at
11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square, London, under the presidency
of Mr. Serjeant Cox, a discussion took place on Mr. W. H. Coffin’s
paper on Somnambulism.
Mr. F. R. Munton, hon. secretary, read the following letter from
Mr. F. W. Thurston, B.A.:—
To the Secretary of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
Dear Sir,—As cases of madness come under the cognisance of the Psycho¬
logical Society, perhaps you may think the following case worthy of com¬
munication :—I was enabled to watch the sufferer from the first symptom of
eccentricity to the final state of raving mania, and I was struck with the
fact—it may he a coincidence—that the gradual development of the diseased
fancies seem to point to the gradual softening of the faculties in the precise
order that phrenologists map down in the lobe on the top of the head. First,
he suddenly, and without apparent reason, took it into his head that his pre¬
vious life had been very sinful, and he commenced to read his Bible all day
long, and to change all his habits of life. Here his Consciousness was evidently
affected. Next he took to watching the heavens with reverent gaze, and to
pray to God. His Veneration had become touched. A week or so after
this he began te give sovereigns away to beggars, and say he was told to do so.
The disease had reached his Benevolence. A few days after his Ideality and
Reason went together. He imagined the Devil was always standing by him
trying to take him away; his reason could not rectify his diseased notion.
He could not distinguish at times his very friends ; he became raving.
I think this case tends to prove not only the existence of the separate
faculties, but the order of them as set down by phrenologists.
As it is the only instance in my personal experience of such development
of insanity, I should have been inclined to put it down to a coincidence,
had I not remembered that Mr. Goombes in his work has shown that cases
of insanity are strong evidences of the truth of his theory. Pei’haps the
study of other cases of gradual softening of the brain might help us to map
the localities of the various functions on a surer basis than that of the ques¬
tionable practice of craniology.
21, Bemers-street, Oxford-street, W., Nov. 20th, 1878.
Dr. Wyld remarked that although almost all physicians admitted
natural somnambulism, they inconsistently denied artificial somnam¬
bulism ; he asserted the phenomena of both to be identical. Physicians
aspersed the character of artificial somnambulists, and took abominable
liberties by running pins and needles into them. Physicians ad¬
mitted that somnambulists could write when a book was placed
between their eyes and the paper; but what was that but clair¬
voyance ? Mr. Coffin had spoken of the mind arriving at a fine point
in these ectstatic conditions; he (Dr. Wyld) had published a theory
to explain that in The Spiritualist; the mind, so to speak, passed
through an aperture, and was enlightened in spiritual realms beyond.
His clairvoyant, Miss Tilley, when mesmerised by Dr. Mack, de¬
scribed to the latter the garden at the back of his house in the United
States, but persisted in saying that she could see no great cherry tree
in the middle of it. Dr. Mack’s next letter from America informed
him that the cherry tree had been cut down and carted away. He
had long suspected that clairvoyance might be injurious to natural
!j eyesight, and knew of one case of the kind ; clairvoyants should not
sit too frequently, and should frequently have their eyes mesmerised.
Mr. C. C. Massey wished some physiologist to say whether in the
lifting of great weights by mesmeric sensitives more power was exer¬
cised than bad been stored up in the muscles. If so, the origin of the
force must be sought elsewhere.
I Dr. Wyld said that the sensitives came out of the state stronger
than when they entered it, notwithstanding the muscular exertion.
Dr. Carter Blake stated that soul or spirit power need not be called
in to explain the mechanical result.
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that in somnambulism the mind often saw
j the external world otherwise than through the ordinary channel of the
i bodily senses ; therefore somnambulism was calculated to throw much
| light on the nature of the soul of man. Dr. Tuke fully admitted that
| the somnambulic state could be produced by mesmerism ; Dr. Car¬
penter admitted the same, but gave a roundabout explanation to it,
j which had better have been given in plain Euglish. (Applause.) The
| speaker then described several cases of clairvoyance, which have been
j previously published in The Spiritualist. He added that cases were
| daily decided in every court of justice in England, on evidence one
fifty-thousandth less strong than had been adduced to prove the
| majority of psychic phenomena. (Applause.)
Professor Plumtre remarked that Dr. Carpenter woke up one morn-
j ing to find he had, in an unconscious state, performed some writing,
I and that the ink was scarcely dry. Dr. Carpenter also narrated how
! he made a mesmerised woman forget her own sex, then suggested to
her—“ My dear sir, get married! ” She replied, “ Oh! Doctor! How
j can you recommend a wife to a dying man ? ” (Laughter.) These
things were in the last edition of Dr. Carpenter’s Mental Physiology,
which was nearly twice as large as its predecessor, and in which Dr.
| Carpenter admitted a great deal.
Major Owen expressed the opinion that Dr. Carpenter must be a
| medium, since he wrote in the trance state.
Mr. Dunlop regretted that the phenomena discussed were not pre-
! sented to the society at its meetings instead of merely talked about.
(Hear, hear.)
Dr. Wyld thought that matter had no existence per se, but existed
! only as a manifestation of force, and that the Divine mind penetrated
| it anywhere. Man, in his spiritual state, rose nearer to the Divine
mind, consequently then had greater power over external nature.
| Mr. W. H. Coffin, in reply, said that, as anticipated, the debate had
been confined to the alleged phenomena of clairvoyance, thought-
| reading, and phreno-mesmerism, naturally predicated of a psychic state
| so mysterious and unaccustomed as somnambulism, instead of the
| obvious, undisputed, but little understood conditions of it. So far from
a complete sealing of the senses being characteristic (as he understood
! had been asserted by the learned president), it was obvious that, at
least, the muscular sense is essential to even the simplest automatic
I motions, and he (the learned president) would not deny that ordinary
sensible impressions in suggesting and influencing somnambulic mani-
| festations were conveyed by ordinary sensory channels. The senses,
| however, may be variously and individually suspended or awakened,
j and, it being abundantly demonstrated that one or more may assume
an exalted sensibility of exquisite delicacy, it is conceivable that acts
| and operations may thus be substitutively conducted in the absence of
a sense usually concerned in them. The highly specialised sense of
sight being more frequently suspended, the more generalised ones
(muscular sense being the lowest) persisting in their inverse order, it
is, at least, certain that in a great number of instances of acts performed
with the eyes closed, the assumption of the existence of a supernatural
perception resembling the power of seeing is entirely unnecessary. It
is not, however, surprising that the observation of such phenomena
associated with abnormal mental and psychical conditions should have
suggested an illimitable extra visual sight; but without absolutely
denying the possibility of “ clairvoyance,” as generally understood (in
the absence of a postulate implying its negation), he (Mr. Coffin), in
numerous alleged instances investigated by him, had never met with
decisive evidences of its existence. To recapitulate—somnambulism,
including, conveniently, the phenomena of hypnotism, “ biology,” trance,
&c., spontaneous, artificially caused, or self-induced, presented an
infinite variety of conditions, in which every possible combination and
interaction of physical, mental, and psychical states are characterised,
in his opinion, by the invariable suspension of the will.
The proceedings then closed.
I A SEANCE WITH MISS COOK.
) Sir,—On Thursday afternoon, the 5th inst., I had the privilege of
11 being present at a seance at the rooms of Signor Rondi, 22, Montagu-
(| place, the medium being Miss Kate Cook. The other sitters were Mrs.
| | Cook, Signor Rondi, and another Italian gentleman. The medium was
i 51 only partially concealed from such view as was possible in an unusally
! ( bad light by a bit of black curtain screening the back and one side of
I) her chair (the other side being against the wall), but not at all inter-
] ( posing between the front of the chair and the sitter on the extreme left,
j} who happened, by Signor Rondi’s direction, to be my fortunate self.
| ( Miss Cook, feeling cold, had declined to take off her thick and heavy
{| woollen jacket, which came over her dress, and was buttoned from the
!) throat nearly down to the knees. To this garment I wish to call parti-
|( cular attention. I sat not five feet from the medium, whose every
j 11 movement was distinctly audible, if not visible. I soon observed
|) | something white, now appearing, now disappearing, at her feet,
m “Lilly” soon afterwards showed herself in close proximity to us
i) I all successively, clad in white from head to foot. The medium’s
11 i dress was of a dark colour, and over it, as I have said,
was the woollen jacket, which was brown, and trimmed with fur.
I also touched the hands, arms, and shoulders of the fair figure,
proving its materiality beyond question. But that which chiefly makes
me consider this account worth publication is the following :—After I had
ascertained, so far as touch and sight could inform me, that “ Lilly ” had
not on the medium’s jacket nor her dress, she told me, standing by my
side, that I might go up to her medium, and satisfy myself that she was
in her chair. I jumped up at once, and Lilly seemed to disappear,
rather than to retreat, before me. Almost instantly I was at the
medium’s chair, and there, undoubtedly, was Miss Cook seated. Her
head had fallen on one side, and I raised her into a more comfortable
position. In doing so I found that the jacket was on, and, on passing
niy hand down the front, that it was buttoned right up as when she had
taken her seat. No trace of the white garment of Lilly was visible. I
also felt the feet, on which were boots fastened up to the ankles. When
“ Lilly ” came out again I felt one of her feet, which was bare.
This was soon, yet not immediately, after I had returned to I
my seat. But the really noticeable test, in my opinion, was the j
attire of the medium, as contrasted with that of “Lilly,” looking j
at the almost inappreciable interval of time between my obser- j
vation of the one and of the other. At present I wish only to j
state facts, not to hazard conclusions. “ Lilly ” has promised me !
further and better proofs that she is a being physically distinct from the j
medium. I hope I may be permitted to witness them, for to establish
this fact it is clearly necessary to prove more than what to some extent
we already know of the inconceivable rapidity with which mediums can j
he dealt with by the powers manifesting through and upon them. It
remains, therefore (at least for me), to be seen whether this most grace¬
ful and charming of “form manifestations” affords a physical demon¬
stration equal to its aesthetic and psychological interest.
C. C. Massey.
Temple.
DEPARTURE OF MR, MARTHEZE ON A VOYAGE ROUND
THE WORLD.
A pew days ago, Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, who for a long
course of years has been one of the most quietly active
Spiritualists in Europe, left England for a cruise round the
world. His intention is to stay for a short time in Ceylon
and in India, to see what he can of the psychic phenomena
described by Jacolliot, so few travellers having their eyes
open to intelligently observe that section of the occurrences
of nature. After a few weeks stay in Ceylon he will pro¬
ceed to Java; his next landing place will be California,
whence he will travel Eastwards to those active spiritual
centres, Boston and New York, on his way back to England.
Mr. Martheze is a native of Holland, but has strong
English proclivities. The last letter we received from him
came from on board his ship at (( The Nore,” in which he
expressed his regret at leaving il dear old England, a country
which needs so many reforms.” For a long course of years
Mr. Martheze has strengthened the cause of Spiritualism in
England by the aid of capital, as well as by the intelligent
personal study of its phenomena, and had all who were able
to do so equalled him in the performance of their duty,
and in the use of such powers as are at their command,
Spiritualism in England would be in a perceptibly more
advanced position than it is at present. The movement
here is temporarily divorced from a true friend, whose quiet
work has for the most part been unknown, but not unseen
by the public, and who would deprecate this notice of the
good he has done had he any voice in the matter.
1 Mdlle. Lucile, the mesmeric sensitive, and her mesmerist, M.
Donato, are rising in fame in Paris, and drawing large and fashionable
audiences. They gave a private stance to M. Alexandre Aksakof, of
St. Petersburg, who says that he then satisfied himself by experiment
of the power of transmitting unexpressed thoughts, and that he intends
to publish the details in The Mesmeric Review of Paris.
Professor Max-Muller on Atheism.-—The following is extracted
from Professor Max-Muller’s article in the Contemporary Review for
November, 1878, p. 731:—“ There is an atheism which is unto death ;
there is another atheism which is the very life blood of all true faith.
It is the power of giving up what, in our best, our most honest
moments, we know to be no longer true ; it is the readiness to replace
the less perfect, however dear, however sacred it may have been to us,
by the more perfect, however much it may be detested as yet by others.
It is the true self-surrender, the true self-sacrifice, the greatest trust
in truth, the truest faith. Without that atheism no new religion, no
reform, no reformation, no resuscitation, would ever have been possible ;
without that atheism no new life is possible for any one of us.”
arotmpotrtinue.
Greatjreedom is offered to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
he returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.1  
SPIRITUALISM NORTHWARDS.
Sir,—Whilst on tour in the North of England during the past months,
I was astonished to learn what wide and rapid progress Spiritualism
has made amongst all classes. In every town I visited, large or small,
there I found spirit circles and well-developed mediums.
Though almost invariably I was made welcome as an investigator,
and received every facility to test all I saw or heard, yet in few places
are the sittings thrown open to the public, but are, as a rule, conducted
in private. This is excusable. In the provinces gossip is dear alike
to the heart of man and woman; and the affairs of one neighbour
possess a keen and exciting interest for the other, especially if they
vary from the common routine of everyday life. Here, too, the cant
of modern criticism lays its verbal bond upon the practice of Spirit¬
ualism, and reserves for all who would dare exercise their analytical
faculties in this direction the choicest vials of its wrath.
In many instances I have found the circles composed of persons
utterly illiterate to an astonishing degree in this age when the school¬
master is popularly supposed to be abroad. Yet, by constant sittings,
they have come to learn of more things in heaven and on earth than
are dreamt of in our philosophy, and receive manifold manifestations
that are the despair of the most suspicious scrutiny, and set at defiance
the sophistry of sages.
In most cases they regard Spiritualism as a religion, and practise it
strictly as such.
The mind of man generally associates mystery with divinity.
So common, indeed, amongst them have been occurrences entirely
beyond the reach of human power—the mere narration of which sounds
passing strange to ears of flesh and blood—that they have come to
| regard them almost as the commonplace events of every day life.
I remember one evening, on which I was disengaged, walking a
distance of about three miles to attend a seance held in the humble
! home of a collier, of whom, with his wife and three young children,
together with another “ pit man ” and myself, the circle was composed.
One of the men was a medium of rather recent development.
Scarcely had we sat, however, on this night, when he became entranced.
He spoke at some length to me concerning personal matters. All he
said was true. But he may have been but hazarding guesses. I had
never met him before.
Towards the end of the sitting I asked what spirits surrounded me.
“ There is one,” he said, “ near you : a female form.”
“Describe her,” I said.
He then gave the details of her appearance, dress, and the peculiar
mode in which she had her hair arranged.
“ Do you know her ? ” one of the sitters inquired.
I smiled with ready incredulity. “ No,” I replied.
There was ibut one person whom the spirit he described resembled,
and she I believed to be living.
“ She is very near you,” the medium continued, “ and is smiling on
you.”
A few days later I received some letters which had been delayed in
i fowarding from town to town: one contained the intelligence that
} she whose appearance the medium had mentioned as hovering near
me had been dead a day or two before the evening when I attended
the stance. On this earth she would smile never, never more.
How shall this circumstance be accounted for ? Will it be set down
as a coincidence,
To use a phrase,
By which such things are settled nowadays.
For in these materialistic times the majority of men cannot, or will not
trouble themselves concerning “ thoughts beyond the reaches of their
souls.”
I have had, in bringing inquirers or strangers to sittings, experiences
like to that referred to by Mrs. Georgina Weldon in a recent letter to
the editor of The Medium. In the presence of the medium they
declined to test or examine the facts passing before their senses, and,
moreover, seemed meekly apologetic that such a proceeding should
be even hinted at, yet no sooner had they left his presence than they
ridiculed the sitting as a tissue of trickery. Such persons, by their
arrant and unprincipled dishonesty, their baneful criticism, begotten
of arch hypocrisy, help, as far as in them lies, to cast a slur and a
stain on Spiritualism and its causes, and therefore should they be
avoided.
As a rule, however, the greater number of the public are scarcely
blamable for their prejudice regarding Spiritualism. They are led to
conclusions by an almost universally hostile press, kind enough to coin
opinions for them without giving them the trouble of exercising their
brains. I remember that, some time since, a paper claiming a wide
i circulation, and having a certain renown for raciness, with that charming
| candour and bold scurrility which distinguishes modern journalism,
; declared that “ the leading professional Spiritualists should be sent as
! rogues and vagabonds to the treadmill.”
This exquisite example of the spirit of the press is sufficient to indi-
| cate its general tendency. Perhaps no better omen of the future suc-
I cess of Spiritualism can be evinced than the very bitterness with which
| it is at present assailed. In the vast records of a world’s history we
I find that the heralding of the most valuable discoveries have almost
| invariably been laughed to scorn, treated as delusive dreams, or the
| airy fancies of some fanatic.
Ernest Wilding,
] Sherborne Lodge, Kennington-road, London, Not. 30th, 1878,
Dec. 13, 1878. THE SriRITUALIST. 279
280
TH E SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 13, 1878.
■WOULD THE CHAPEL DEACON SYSTEM BE BENEFICIAL TO SPIRITUALISM?
Sir,—In your issue of the 6 th inst. there is a very melancholy picture
of the condition of Nonconformist ministers ; and the picture, as a
whole, is, I fear, a, correct representation of sad facts. The writer of
the article says, “ The best preachers among Nonconformists are driven
away in their youth by the system, and the Established Church retains
its ascendency, notwithstanding that its greater freedom permits the
existence of occasional drinking and swearing parsons.” I think, as a
rule, the reverse of this is the case. Men of force, men of original
power, men of genius, become masters of their positions, while ordinary
men become the victims of deacon rule, and, in many instances, go to the
Established Church, where they have not to make a position for them¬
selves by pulpit ability and manly independence. It must, however, be
admitted that many finely-gifted, sensitive men leave the Nonconformist
ministry in disgust with “the system of a teacher of the people receiving
his appointment directly from those working immediately beneath him ”
—a system whose boasted headship of Christ is, practically, the head¬
ship of the “ leading grocer across the way.”
But is the position of a curate any more favourable to mental inde¬
pendence and truth-speaking than that of the Nonconformist minister ?
The curate holds his curacy by the will of his vicar, and his spiritual
superior can subject him to endless petty annoyances and to the bitterest
humiliation.
Deacon rule is not an element in all sections of Nonconformity.
There is one denomination of Nonconformists where deacons are not,
and where the ministers are expected to be truth-seekers and truth-
speakers. That church is the Unitarian Church, in which there are
ministers who are Spiritualists, and who make no secret of their
Spiritualism, I. M. Dixon.
Hull, December 9tb, 1878.   
Sir,—No reader of The Spiritualist will hesitate to accord to it the
credit of being thoroughly outspoken. I venture to conclude that it will
appreciate this quality in others, and hence that you will allow me to
question the accuracy of, certain representations contained in the last
number respecting Nonconformist ministers and deacons.
The position taken in the article to which I refer, with regard to the
proceedings of the British National Association of Spirituahsts in rela¬
tion to a recent scandal, I think to be erroneous. I will, however, con¬
fine my remarks to matters upon which it may be conceded that I am
more likely than some others to possess the materials for an intelligent
opinion. After some forty years’ tolerably extensive acquaintance with
the officials reflected on, I may be presumed to know something alike
of their excellences and of their faults. If it should be thought that
such experience may be presumed to have produced a mere partisan,
I reply that my divergence from the popular theological creed, and my
indiflerence with respect to questions of polity, have availed to sever me
from all parties, and to make me independent of them.
With respect to Nonconformist ministers, I would say that whatever
objection may be taken to the method of their appointment, and however
certainly that method may allow of the occasional selection of vain,
weak, and inefficient men, who by their incompetency will invite the
hostility of the ignorant but influential, such misadventure, so far from
being the rule, is the rare exception. Everywhere there are ministers
who, in the absence of the status which connection with the Established
Church would involve, are occupying a position of influence in middle-
class society, such as only talent, energy, and high moral excellence
could command. It is true, indeed, that “individuals of culture,
sesthetical proclivities, and of independence of character cannot live in
the midst of petty tyranny; ” but then, in the great majority of
instances, these qualities are associated with—indeed they imply,
because they generate—that social power which will either prevent or
stamp out such tyranny. To speak of the “best preachers being
driven from Nonconformity,” and to connect the ascendency of the Estab¬
lished Church with such alleged fact is, I think, to be oblivious of the
very marked progress of Nonconformity during the present century, and
no less so of the circumstance that, whilst all possible respect is due to
many of the established clergy because of their invaluable scholarship,
and to many others of them for their practical devotedness to the various
welfare of the community, it is yet admitted by candid men of all parties
that the most effective pulpit oratory is to be found for the most part
among the Dissenters. Between myself and the greater number of Non¬
conformist teachers there is but little in common. I feel it to be all
the more incumbent upon me to insist on their general superiority to the
weakness and ignorance with which they are credited in the article in
question.
But about the deacons. It is not the first deliverance respecting them
with which The Spiritualist has favoured its readers. My impression
is that the writer has pursued a course upon which, I fancy, he would be
“pretty considerably” severe in the case of another—that, viz., of
generalising upon utterly insufficient data. He has been acquainted,
apparently, with some one or two instances of diaconal assumption, and
has inferred that deacons are generally pragmatical and tyrannical.
Now, the position of deacon among Dissenters is, in most cases,
analogous to that of warden among Churchmen. Should we be justified
in branding all churchwardens with the disgrace which some have
merited ? Or—the gods screen me from the effects of my temerity—are
editors all without reproach ?
What manner of men are Dissenting deacons ? I reply that, in the
very decided majority of instances, they are men who owe their official
standing to the voluntary suffrages of their fellow-worshippers, to whom
they are well-known, and by whom they are highly esteemed. They
are men who devote much time, and thought, and energy to the secular
interests of the congregation, and are invaluable as the advisers of their
minister and the Mends of the poor. True, in some instances they,
when wealthy, may be tempted, as rich men are wont to be, to arrogance
of spirit and conduct, and in others, when ignorant, may lack the
ballast which larger information would supply. This, however, is only
to say that they are like other men, and it should be remembered that
! in all such cases the remedy is at hand, and is generally easy of appli-
cation. What I affirm is, that on the whole they deserve to be held in
j honour, and not subjected to ridicule.
Just glancing at one other matter, I will venture to suggest that, if
| popular novelists may indulge in caricature and find material for it in
the social position of their puppets, it may be doubted whether the same
| course adopted by others with respect to any class of living persons
does not savour of that variety of vulgarity the name of which I will
not offend by employing.
I feel how irrelevant is the discussion of these matters to the proper
work of 'The Spiritualist. The responsibility of introducing them, how¬
ever, is not mine. William Mtall.
Dalston, December 9th, 1878.
I Sir,—In your leader last week on “ The Venerable Order of Deacons,”
I you state that some time ago ‘ ‘ it was innocently suggested at a public
board meeting that the relations between an organised body of Spirit-
j ualists and mediums should be similar to those which exist between
ministers and their flocks;’’ and, if I understand you rightly, you dis-
I approve of such relations in the former case, on the grounds that “ the
deacons hold meetings about the rash preacher (who has taught them a
little true religion), discuss his mode of living, &c., judicially deal with
j a variety of offences not recognised as such by the British law, and
| adjudicate upon evidence in a manner unknown to courts of justice.”
Now I cannot for the life of me see that any valid objection can be
| taken to the proposition in question on any grounds similar to those
referred to. I cannot imagine that there would ever be the slightest
danger of a medium being subjected to a system of vulgar tyranny and
petty persecution by reason of his having taught Spiritualists “a little
true religion,” or any other praiseworthy action. On the other hand
there would be—to my mind—one very great advantage in the relation¬
ship proposed. If half a dozen members of a “ flock ” bring a charge
of, say, drunkenness or swindling against their “ minister, the re¬
mainder of the congregation—represented, I suppose, by their deacons—
are bound by every consideration of self-respect, and in justice both to
the accused and the accusers, to investigate it, and to pronounce
whether, in their opinion, it can be sustained. It would never do for
them to ignore charge after charge of this description, with the cynical
observation that it was six to one the drunkard or the swindler was on
the side of the accusers, or that it is folly to expect ministers to be so
“ immaculate ” as never to swindle or get drunk, or that, certain legal
formalities being impracticable, the matter had better be let alone.
And if the above-mentioned suggestion were fully carried into effect,
cases of imposture on the part of mediums—and that such cases have
happened again and again is patent to every investigator—could not be
ignored, or met by a testimonial, but would rightly be regarded as
being fully as disgraceful in a medium as drunkenness or fraud could be
in a minister, and as equally reflecting disgrace upon anybody that
could calmly allow what they hold as truth to be dragged in the dirt by
those whose motive is gain.
I am the more interested in the suggestion referred to, since it distantly
resembles—or, rather, puts in an entirely different form—one which I
myself made “ at a public board meeting ’’ some time ago. In answer to
the statement that the British National Association of Spiritualists was
“ taking judicial functions ” upon itself in venturing to pronounce an
opinion as to whether a medium whom it had repeatedly introduced to
inquirers, and upheld as altogether trustworthy, had or had not been
guilty of an attempted deception with which he was charged, I suggested
that a medium does, in some respects, stand in relation to Spiritualists
much as a minister stands in relation to his congregation. It was a
statement of opinion as to a matter of fact, implying that Spiritualists
would not be justified in allowing a medium to go about simulating
spiritual phenomena, or in allowing a charge of so doing to be brought
against a recognised medium, without making or seeking to make some
inquiry and some protest. I may say now that I cannot understand how
it is possible to uphold the contrary proposition. Sorely no Spiritualist
would suggest an expediency which would here be synonymous with
complicity or with heartless indifference. No doubt—and I have some
reason to recognise the fact—it is not only a painful, but also an
• arduous and ungrateful task, more especially whilst the major portion of
the London Spiritualistic press maintains its present attitude, to take the
part of Spiritualism, and of truthseeking Spiritualists, against those
materialisation mediums—nearly all of whom are possessed of some
genuine powers—whose money-making frauds have been detected by the
latter. Yet I trust that no one claiming to be a Spiritualist would on
this account—through any fear of the onus, the travail, or the misrepre¬
sentation that may befall him—propose to sacrifice Spiritualism and
Spiritualists to these mediums. Nevertheless, we shall assuredly do
this—we shall consummate what has already been commenced—if we
fail to recognise the relation which actually exists, whether we like it or
not, between Spiritualists and those who go forth to the world to illus¬
trate, or to parody, the most prominent facts of their philosophy or of their
creed. In the same way as the Sandimanians, or the Irvingites, and the
tenets they hold, would be disgraced by a series of public frauds, un¬
acknowledged, unatoned for, and unreprobated by them, on the part of
men whom they put forward to represent their views—in the same way,
but to a much greater extent, are Spiritualists and Spiritualism dis¬
graced when recognised mediums are found masquerading with false
beards or linen masks upon their faces, muslin or newspaper around
their limbs, phosphorus bottles in their hands, and confederates at their
elbow; and when such antics are virtually condoned, or, worse, en¬
couraged by a testimonial. Then, such incidents are even more dis¬
creditable to Spiritualists than to the mediums, and tend to make Spirit¬
ualism appear a thing that no man with self-respect would willingly
touch. Before the intelligent truthseekers who must be our judges, and
Dec. 3 3, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
281
who may be our disciples and our successors, Spiritualists are on their |) j
trial, as well as the medium, when the latter is arraigned for fraud. , j 51
From the highest standpoint—that whence we may scan eternity— j <
from the standpoint which all Spiritualists should take—the only expe- |)
diency to be seen is perfect singleness of purpose in seeking and standing i)
by truth, whether it may appear to tell for or against us, whether it make j (
us weep or rejoice. Let us study Spiritualism—phenomenal Spirit- |)
ualism—in its dark as well as in its brighter aspects; and let us set to j)
work to purge it from the trickery which, like a cankerworm, is ] (
blighting and soiling some of the fairest flowers that can cheer and |)
brighten humanity. I call upon you, sir, to aid in this work ; and I do | J
not think you will fail us. Let us have, in regard to the known pro- i (
ceedings of some mediums, and the revelations which have been and ! j
can be made in relation to them, a little of that perfect openness, that I)
absence of all secrecy and concealment, which you advocate so strongly ! (
—and, as some of us think, so unnecessarily—in relation to the proceed- j (
ings of the British National Association of Spiritualists. I would have i (
no persecution of mediums ; hut, for the sake of Spiritualism—which j (
should be their cause as well as ours—and for their own sake in the j)
future, I would have their misdeeds brought to the full light of day.— i j
I am, sir, yours in tenth, Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald. | (
Brixton, December 9th, 1878. ! )
THE PSYCHOLOGY OP THE PLAY OF “ MACBETH.” I ) ]
Sir,—The reading of Mr. Coffin’s lecture on Somnambulism, reminds ! JI
me of Shakespeare’s play of Macbeth ; none of the other plays, and no j M
other play, poem, or novel that I recall, presents so much to intepest ! (j
the Spiritualist. First, the witches with all their wild doings, and I (I
sayings, and wickedness, and prevision, and holy truths, leading and m
misleading to ends that are really terrible and fatal. Then the old hags j t j
riding the air, and using the cauldron and strange ingredients and con- j (j
coctions; their use of charms, and rounding about in the circle, with j) j
their songs and mystical number, &c. j j i
“ And three again to make up nine I ) i
Peace !—The charm’s wound up.” I ( j
These are not fanciful beings exactly, but what had been supposed to be m
in a measure true existences, as the natural history of witchcraft j) i
shows. Then we have the vision of the dagger with the “ Art thou not j (j
fatal vision sensible to feeling as to sight, or art thou but a dagger of j).]
the mind ?” making feeling or touch the test of objective reality, as in j) I
the case of Christ and His wounds. Further on we have the ghost of | (!
Banquo, only seen by Macbeth— ! > |
“ Thy blood is cold ; ! ) ]
Thou hast no speculation in those eyes j ( i
Which thou dost glare with 1” ( j
quite another kind of ghost from that of Hamlet’s father. It is strange / j
that Macbeth, in those superstitious days, should seem to think the ap- (j
pearance to be a new phenomenon, ) j
“ The times have been, ) i
That, when the brains were out, the man would die, ( j
And there an end ”— | (;
giving the brain the honour of being the seat of life over the heart !) j
or soul. | (I
Fourthly, we have Lady Macbeth as a somnambulist:—
“ Since his majesty went to the field, I have seen her rise from the bed, j ( I
throw her nightgown upon her, unlock her closet, take forth paper, fold it, j S i
write upon it, read it, afterwards seal it, and again return to bed ; yet all the i) j
while in a most fast sleep A great perturbation of nature; to receive j) j
at once the benefit of sleep, and do the effects of watching.” I (i
Again— | ■
“ You see, her eyes are open.” ])
“Ay, but their sense is shut.” j ?
Now, from my great experience in mesmeric somnambulism, I can I >
say that this description is true to nature, and hence a most interesting j)
matter to refer to. Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S. j (
Boulogne-sui'-Mer, France. i )
A SEANCE AT NEWCASTLE. ( j
Sir,—The alleged exposure of mediums is not, as at first appears, an ! (j
unmitigated misfortune, for the mishaps have tended considerably to ]) j
induce persons with medial power to solicit to sitters to so place them j (
that whatever phenomena may occur they cannot for a single moment i (
be considered to be the active agents in their production. Previous to j;
her alleged exposure at Blackburn, Miss Wood always insisted on the j (
application of such tests as the observers might devise; but after such j S
unfortunate experience there and on her return to the North, she has j)
learned that the application of still more stringent tests than those in i (
previous use does not necessarily imply lack of confidence in her as a j j
woman, but rather a want of knowledge, both on the part of mediums ] 5
and observers, as to the best methods to adopt to ensure undeniably i (
genuine phenomena. In consequence, she has been sitting in the rooms ] j
of the Newcastle-on-Tyne Psychological Society for form manifestations, j)
without ever entering the cabinet, and keeps continuously in distinct i (
view of the observers. Before furnishing your readers with the notes j j
taken down at the time of a siance I attended on Sunday morning, Nov. !)
24th, I should like, in view of the prevailing desire for the abandon- j (
ment of cabinets, to draw attention to the misleading ideas the use of j s
such a term creates. I find, when reading over my notes to persons who i >
have not been at a stance, that the use of this word ‘‘ cabinet ” leads j (
them to think of some closet, or consulting room, or piece of furniture I (
with boxes, drawers, and other like facilities favouring dexterous |)
manipulation ; whereas there are no such things, nor any semblance of | (
them, in the rooms of the Newcastle Society, and without the least tinge j |
of casuistry it may truthfully be affirmed there is no cabinet. Though ] j
it must be admitted that if a medium is once permitted to go to the j |
innerside of the curtains (suspended from an iron rod in a corner of
the room where there are neither cupboards, closets, nor windows), and
remain their unobserved, however briefly, the curtained recess may in
that brief moment invest it with all the possibility of a conjurer’s
cabinet.
These remarks are essentially necessary to aid the reader in more
definitely valuing the notes of the stance I have referred to as occurring
on Sunday, November 24th. On that occasion Miss Wood was the
medium. There were nine persons present, seated in semi-circular form
around the medium. The medium was robed in a white jacket belonging
to the society, and was seated in an armchair facing the outside of the
curtains, in full view of the observers, throughout the entire sitting. A
chair, with tambourine and bell lying on a seat, was placed against the
wall on the left hand of the medium, and after she had been sitting a
short time the chair and other instruments were drawn within the
curtains, on the inner side of which there was nothing previously to
this that could be moved. The bell then commenced ringing vigorously,
and continued to do so while the observers sang four verses; After a
short pause of the bell-ringing, a white shroud came out from the inner
side of the curtains; it was apparently about five feet high ; it hovered
around the medium, but twice it was observed to move to a distance of
about two feet.' When it was asked to bring the tambourine from the
inner side of the curtains it retired thither, holding the curtains apart, and
assumed a recumbent posture, as if sitting on a chair. After a pause of
about five minutes the shroud arose, brought the chair from the inner
side, placed it on the outer side of the curtains at the right of the medium,
and then slowly glided to a lady seated at the extreme end of the circle,
on the medium’s left, and handed the lady the tambourine. While the
shroud was seen standing and moving about, the medium was all the
while talking in a manner unusual to her, and, by request, her face was
turned to the right, so that I could distinguish her features, while the
shroud was on the medium’s left handing the lady the tambourine.
Jno. Mould.
Newcastle-on-Tyne, ———
DR. FORBES WINSLOW’S STATISTICS.
Sir,—The Court Journal having got hold, rather late, however, of
the amazing postulate of Dr. Forbes Winslow, and published in their
number of Nov. 16th—Doctor Winslow’s statement, as “ a startling
fact,” that “ 10,000 persons of unsound mind are confined in the lunatic
asylums of the United States, driven mad from over excitement caused
by Spiritualism ”—I sent to that newspaper Dr. Crowell’s statistics of
the real state of the case at once, taken from The Spiritualist of March
2nd, 1877, which I am happy to find the Court Journal has had the
grace to publish in its last number, that of Nov. 23rd, as follows
“ We recently stated upon an authority that 10,000 persons of unsound
mind are confined in the lunatic asylums of the United States. In con¬
sequence of this report Dr. Crowell made a formal application to all
the asylums to ascertain the truth of it, when fifty-nine was the
number; but as a few returns were omitted, they might amount to
seventy-six.” Scrutator.
THE HEALING POWERS OF MESMERISM.
Sir,—A short time since, in recording in your valuable paper my
obligations to Mrs. Loomis, I mentioned that I had induced a lady (a
fellow-patient of mine in the hospital which I attended) to consult her.
Her case was an obscure one, complex in the highest degree, and her
suffering of many years’ standing. During my stay in the hospital she
underwent a terrible operation with no good result whatever, and shortly
after leaving it she was told that a similar operation was absolutely
necessary. It was at this juncture that I induced her to consult Mrs.
Loomis. Under her care she has attained, without the torture of
operation, instrument, or powerful agency of any kind, to a degree of
health and vigour wholly unexpected by her, and inexplicable upon any
generally received hypothesis. The noticeable point in her case is, her
utter disbelief in any spiritual agency—I had almost said, in any agency
whatever beyond Mrs. Loomis’s natural ability—but I believe she does
now accord a certain credence to the clairvoyant powers of her bene¬
factress.
As Mrs. Loomis undertook this case at my request, and has carried
out a most difficult and arduous cure without fee or gratuity of any
kind, I feel bound, in common courtesy, to make the facts of the case
known. The medical data I cannot of course ask you to publish, but I
will gladly furnish full particulars to any inquirer who may desire
advice and probable relief. J. E. Bees.
34, Nightingale-road, Clapton, December 5th.
It is hard to personate and act a part long; for where truth is not at
the bottom, nature will always be endeavouring to return, and will peep
out and betray herself one time or another.—Tillotson.
To cultivate sympathy you must be among living creatures, and
thinking about them; and to cultivate admiration you must be among
beautiful things, and looking at them.—Rushin.
On Monday evening next, at the fortnightly meeting of the National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Bussell-street, London, Mr. W.
Stainton-Moses, M.A., will read a paper on “The Intelligent Operator
at the Other End of the Line.”
At a recent public meeting of Spiritualists held in Manchester, Mr.
Lithgow, of Hayfield, said that seance holding had progressed in the
New Mills district so extensively, that the proprietors of mills and work¬
shops had posted notices in their establishments prohibiting the holding
of seances upon their premises.
The Lancashire District Committee of Spiritualists works in unison
with a number of little Spiritualistic societies which carry on Sunday
meetings and engage trance speakers. The committee states that the
total number of members of these societies is 560, and estimates the
total number of Spiritualists in the district at 2,588.
282
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 13, 1878.
THE ACTION OF ONE MIND UPON ANOTHER. j j
BY J. G. CRANSTOTJN. | ) |
I send a response to Mrs. E. L. Nosworthy’s letter in The ] j
Spiritualist, November 15, 1878, entitled “A Psychological ! | j
Experience— I j i
In the very interesting case described in the above letter, j | i
Mrs. Nosworthy’s daughter appears to have been conscious I j
of the ideas in her mother's mind without her mother i I
{ ( ;
having communicated those ideas to her in any normal way, j j j
this probably taking place through an abnormal state of | (
sympathy, the child being a sensitive and medium. ! j
I find in Professor Perty’s excellent and exhaustive work j |
(according to the known data up to the date of its composi- | I
tion), Die mystischen Erscheinungen der menschlichen Natur, j j
Leipzig, 1872, a great number of analogous cases of ab- j j
normal sympathy. Ill
In response to Mrs. Nosworthy’s expressed wish, I give a j
short account of some of these cases, but beg to refer her to j
the book in question :— |
“ George Simler, a teacher in a large school, lived in ! I
intimate friendship with another teacher, but in a state of j
hostility with a third(M.). One morning at two o’clock Simler ;
awoke in great uneasiness, felt his limbs grow cold, his j j
blood retire to the heart, a strange creeping sensation in his | j
limbs, increase of pulse, giddiness, and confusion of the I j
senses. He thought first of calling out for help to M., but j j
his pride restrained him. At length he got up, ran through | j
the corridors and the courtyard, and then felt better. His j
friend the next morning related to him the following: ‘ I j j
had a remarkable dream last night about you. I saw you jj
lying stretched on your bed, struggling with death; you | |
were threatened with an attack of apoplexy; I wished to run j
for a doctor, but an unknown force held me back; then I j
thought to awaken M., but your will opposed it. I do not 11
know what occurred afterwards, only I was very uneasy about |
you.’ ”—Yol. I., p. 41. j
This seems to be an exactly analogous case of thoughts j
in the mind of one friend being sympathetically present in j j
the mind of another.
“ A delicate child of an estimable clergyman became I j
aware of the death of his father before he knew of his | I
illness.”
“ A boy began to weep violently without any known cause, I |
and when at a distance from his mother, at the very hour of j j
her death.” | j
ieA child residing eight hours’ distance from his mother I
became violently ill, without any apparent cause, during the |
night in which its mother died.” j j
“A wife of a merchant in Stuttgard fainted suddenly j
when visiting a friend, the same moment in which her son j j
was killed, at a distance, owing to an accident with a cabrio- ! j
let.”—Ditto pages 42, 43, and where numerous similar in- j j
stances are related. i |
f* The simplest example of sympathy is the so-called j j
c Thought Contagion,’ whereby persons in the same society, | j
at the same moment, begin to speak upon the same subject. ! I
Hare Townshend succeeded often with the following experi- ! j
ment:—All the members of a certain society bound them- j j
selves, so soon as an expected guest should arrive, to force | j
their thoughts to a certain pre-agreed subject, without, how- j !
ever, speaking of it, or making any allusion to it. The ! j
expected person arrived, and he immediately began to speak j j
of the subject so agreed upon and thought of by the others.” j |
Schopenhauer (Part 1.) says:—“Direct communication | j
of thoughts is so certain that I advise any one who has a j j
weighty and dangerous secret to preserve, never to speak in ! j
the remotest way relative to the circumstances in question ! j
with the person who ought not to know the secret, because | j
during such conversation he cannot avoid having the whole : !
affair present to his thoughts, whereby suddenly a light can i I
pass to the other, discovering the secret, in spite of silence 11 j
and dissimulation. j j
“ My hostess in Milan asked me once at supper to tell her I
the numbers of the three lottery tickets which she had just j j j
bought; without the least delay or reflection I named two of j j j
them correctly, but in consequence probably of my excite- ''
ment at her praise of my success I named the third one
wrong.”
Professor Perty gives the following striking case of
antipathy :—
“ A Countess Konigsaker, who resided in Styria during the
latter half of the last century, never could endure the sight
of any of her five children; whenever any one of them was
brought near her, or into her room, she fainted. This took
place even from the time of their birth, and this although
she loved them tenderly. It became necessary to bring them
all up away from her. The eldest son, an officer, twenty-four
years old, had the strongest desire to see his mother, and
with his father’s consent he was introduced to her, at a
party, as a stranger, but she immediately, on his being pre¬
sented, fainted away.”
Mr. Perty also relates a case, very curious, particularly as
having occurred in England, the religion of which country
consists mostly in the ardent and sincere worship of the
gods “ Gold ” and “ Rank: ”—
“ A farmer’s son in Suffolk showed, even in earliest youth,
the greatest dislike to all kinds of money, which he would
not willingly either look at or touch. All endeavours to cure
him of this failed. On one occasion, without his knowledge,
some copper coins were placed in his pocket, but when he
accidentally put his hand into his pocket and felt them, he
drew it back with horror, and remained an hour in convul¬
sions. A similar trial was made with silver money, but the
effect was even worse, so much so that his life was feared
for.”—Yol. L, pp. 46, 47.
It would be interesting to know if these two extraordinary
cases of antipathy could have been accounted for by the state
of mind of either of the parents from the time of conception to
birth. Reincarnationists would allege that these antipathies
had their cause in some occurrences in a former incarnation.
The authorities for the above cases of sympathy, with many
others, are given in Perty’s work, but lest any one should
wish to know them without referring to it, I give them
here:—
“ Portas Magice Naturalis, 1597 ; Bibliotheque du Magnetisme ; Meunier’s
Ami des Sciences; Journal de VAme, 1857; Kieser’s Archiv;
Kluge’s Animal Magnetism ; Borellus’s Observations; EckartshaUsen’s
Aufschlusse zur Magic; Schopenhauer’s Paralogomena; Becker’s
Bezanberte Welt; Bahren’s Lebens Magnetismus; Digby’s Theatrum
Sympathicum; Magikon; Wolfart’s Neues Askldpieon; Choulant’s
Gesetzentwurf des Thierischen Magnetismus, 1841.
As to the nature of the vision seen by Mrs. Nosworthy’s
daughter, I refrain in this communication from expressing
any opinion on it.
Switzerland, 1st Dec., 1878.
WHEN AND WHERE WAS THE FIRST SEANCE HELD
IN ENGLAND ?
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Dear Sib,—In The Spiritualist of November 2.2nd I ob¬
serve that you express a desire (at the meeting of the
British National Association of Spiritualists) to know
“ where the first seance in England was held, and who were
the witnesses present at it.” I believe that I can answer
you that question. I do not remember the date; but calling
on my friend, Mrs. Crowe, authoress of The Night Side of
Nature, she invited me to accompany her to a spiritual
stance at the house of Mrs. Hayden, in Queen Anne-street,
Cavendish-square. She informed me that Mrs. Hayden had
just arrived from America, to exhibit the phenomena of
Spiritualism to people in England who might feel in¬
terested in the subject. There were present Mrs. Crowe,
Mrs. Milner Gibson, Mr. Colley Grattan (author of High
Ways and Bye Ways), Mr. Robert Chambers, Dr. Daniels,
Dr. Samuel Dickson, and several others whose names I did
not hear. Some very remarkable “ manifestations” oc¬
curred on that occasion. I afterwards had frequent oppor¬
tunities of visiting Mrs. Hayden ; and though, at first, dis¬
posed to doubt the genuineness of the phenomena, such con¬
vincing evidence was given me of spirit communion that I
became a firm believer in the truth of it.—Believe me, dear
sir, faithfully yours, John Malcolm.
Clifton, Bristol, Nov, 27, 1878,
Dec. 13, 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST. 283
THE BKITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
thv. DEBATE on captain burton’s paper.
The usual fortnightly meeting of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was held at 38, Great Russell-street, on Monday evening,
the 2ad instant. The chair was taken by Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald,
M.S.Tel.E., and the rooms were crowded to excess, the paper to be read
being by the renowned traveller, Captain R. F. Burton.
The Chairman—Ladies and gentlemen, I have to go through a work
of supererogation in introducing to you a gentleman with whose repu¬
tation at least you are already well acquainted. I have to introduce you
to a gentleman who of old did great service to Spiritualism by defending
the Davenport Brothers when they were unjustly attacked. I have to
introduce you to a gentleman who, if he believed that Spiritualism or any
part of it were a great truth, would, without any doubt, unhesitatingly
and fearlessly stand up and support his convictions; I have to introduce
you, in fact, to the modern Bayard, our English chevalier sans peur et
sans reproche. After paying to him a devoir which sounds like a com¬
pliment, but which is not one, I have to say that I stand here rather
anxiously awaiting what Captain Burton has to say in relation to
Spiritualism. I know he is not quite one of ourselves ; I know he is a
very hard hitter, and if there are any flaws in our armour, I know he
will make it ring again; but I feel certain we shall take every observa¬
tion he may make in good part, being certain of the honesty and good
intent of the speaker. (Applause). I feel that I cannot sit down without
mentioning the name of Mrs. Burton. (Applause.) Captain Burton is
in my eyes, and I believe I represent the feeling of all those who know
him, or even only know his reputation, one of the finest specimens of
manhood I have ever had the honour to stand beside, and I must say of
Mrs. Burton that I consider her the finest specimen of womanhood I
have ever met. She is a lady of high birth, but she is something
more, something higher than that. She is a true woman, who has over
and over again stood beside her husband in times of trouble and immi¬
nent danger, and it is a great honour to me to be in the position of intro¬
ducing you to our distinguished visitors this evening. With this little
preamble, I will at once call upon Captain Burton to read his paper.
(Applause.)
Captain Burton then read his paper. It was printed in full in the last
number of The Spiritualist.
The Chairman—I have now to call upon Mrs. Burton.
Mrs. Burton—It appears to me that Spiritualism, as practised in
England, is quite a different matter to that practised in the East, as
spoken of by Captain Burton. Easterns are organised for such mani¬
festations, especially the Arabs. It causes them no surprise; they take
it as a natural thing, as a matter of course; in short, it is no religion to
them. Easterns of this organisation exhale the force; it seems to be
an atmosphere surrounding the individual, and I have frequently in
common conversation had so strong a perception of it, as to withdraw to a
distance on any pretext, allowing a current of air to pass from door or
window between them and myself. There is no doubt that some strange
force or power is at work, trying to thrust itself up in the world, and is
well worthy of attention. When I say “ new,” I mean in our hemi¬
sphere. I believe it to be as old as time in Eastern countries. I think
we are receiving it wrongly. When handled by science, and when it
shall become stronger and clearer, it will rank very high. Hailed in our
matter-of-fact England as a new religion by people who are
not organised for it, by people who are wildly, earnestly,
seeking for the truth, when they have it at home—some on their
domestic hearth, and others next door waiting for .them—it can only act
as a decoy to a crowd of sensation-seekers who yearn to see a ghost as
they would go to a pantomime, and this can only weaken and degrade
it, and distract attention from its possibly true object, science. Used
vulgarly, as we have all sometimes seen it used, after misleading and
crazing a small portion of sensitive persons, it must fall to the ground.
I think Captain Burton has selected an admirable title for it—I allude
to Zoo-electricity—until a better name discloses itself, but I regret to
say that I cannot to-night join in the general applause which greets his
lecture. It appears to me to suit all parties. He gives the Spiritualists
a raison d'etre, whilst he knows that he does not believe in spirits from
the other world being subject to our uses, calls, and caprices. On the
other hand he has not exactly offended the one Holy Catholic and
Apostolic Church to which it is my glory to belong. The greatest anti-
Spiritualist cannot accuse him of violating his own common sense, because
he has expressed no belief, but simply recounted what is practised in
the East. I am sure that I am the only person in this room, per¬
haps in London, possibly in the world, to whom the construction that
the public may put upon the lecture to-night is a thing of vital
importance. I am, therefore, unwilling to leave Captain Burton’s
real sentiments on the subject quite so much to your imagination as I
think he has done. He is certainly not a Spiritualist. Like other
scientific men and materialists, he believes in a natural force which
has no name, which he calls Zoo-electricity, but he does not mean the
ghosts that real believers are said to see. I feel he has not done
justice to himself, and this is why I have ventured to add this post¬
script to his address, in the fewest and plainest words that I can
find. I need not tell you that he little thought to-night to find his
wife amongst his opponents. I now thank you all exceedingly for
having listened to me.
The Chairman—When Captain Burton sat down, he made an obser¬
vation to me to the effect that now he was going to “ catch it.” I told
him he would have to wait some time, but I think he has “ caught it ”
already. (Laughter.) Now I think it is high time that somebody
should say a word for Spiritualism as we understand it. I believe
there is no very vital point of difference between us after all. We under¬
stand each other thoroughly. If the Spiritualist would only say—and it
is a question of terms—that the spirits are formed of some kind of invi-
| (| sible matter which is not composed of any of the elements known
! I j to the chemists, and which has various very wonderful properties and
I} i qualities, I think a great many of the difficulties and differences
| (j between ourselves and Captain Burton and other honest materialists
j 11 might be got over. I will now ask Mr. Wallace if he will be good.
II i enough to say something. (Applause.)
| (| Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace—Ladies and gentlemen, I merely get up
i 11 because the chairman has called upon me, and somebody must set
| /! the ball going. I think most of us must have been somewhat agree-
] 11 ably surprised to find that Captain Burton believes so much. (Laughter.)
I j j It appears to me, in fact, that he believes everything that we do, only
if; he puts a different interpretation upon it. That interpretation certainly
| ( | was not very clear to me, and I hope, when he replies, as he probably
i j | will, he will throw a little further light upon it. As far as I under-
! j | stand him, he admits all the phenomena which we believe to be real,
III as phenomena for which there is good evidence. He also appears to
| i admit the existence of other beings than ourselves, for he tells us that
| | what we call spirits, when they appear materialised (which I confess
j | is to some extent an Irish bull expression), can be photographed, are
] | tangible, and can move objects, and yet he expresses his belief that
| j | there is nothing in the world but what is human and what is mundane.
| | Now, I should like to know what he means by “human,” because,
|j| if these spirits are human, that is exactly what we say they are.
i | Therefore, he agrees with us totally. (Laughter.) If they are human,
i j they can only be other human beings, and therefore, as far as I under-
j J stand Captain Burton, he agrees absolutely with us, and he is really a
111 thorough Spiritualist. I cannot understand the difference; I only ask
j ( for an explanation. There are a great many other points on which I
| j | could say a few words, but they are really collateral points, and I
in do not like to go away from the main issue. I think most of us would
] ( | have liked to have heard a little more of Captain Burton’s personal
| j | experience. He has told us a great deal that is very interesting, taken
j ( | from Eastern authorities, about Spiritualism, but nothing about his
| (i own experience. Nothing is so interesting as to have the experiences
j of a man from his own mouth, and as we believe that Captain Burton
| / | has had wonderful opportunities, and must have seen wonderful things,
j (j I think it would be very gratifying to all of us if he would give us one
j > | or two of his own personal experiences. (Applause.)
I (| The Chairman—May I venture to ask if Mr. Wm. Crookes will make
i (| some observations ?
I j i Mr. William Crookes—Mr. Chairman, your wishes are commands,
] | ] but I really think I am scarcely entitled to speak after Captain
j (| Burton, not knowing whether I am one of the “ Red Terrors ” or the
! “ Black Terrors ” that he spoke of, and also being rather in doubt
j j j as to whether I possess a soul or not. (Laughter.) I think when
| (I Captain Burton spoke in the way he did of psychic force, he forgot
| )| that he was going to mention a little time after a force which he
i | i did not give a name to, and subsequently to that a force which he
! (| called Zoo-electricity. Now, I fancy what he means by this is the
! | same thing as Serjeant Cox and myself meant by the psychic force. In
i j | listening to the very learned and interesting lecture which we have
| (j heard, I was struck by the same thing which Mr. Wallace has so well
| )i expressed. We heard a great deal about subjective phenomena, mental
j /1 phenomena, seeing in crystals, and in a drop of ink, but there was very
| (| little of objective, physical phenomena. Towards the end we heard
111 some very interesting and wonderful accounts; but I regret, as Mr.
| (| Wallace has already done, that we did not hear some of Captain
j (| Burton’s own experiences. Captain Burton is known as such a very
! (j trustworthy, painstaking observer, that anything that he would tell
| (| us in connection with the Eastern jugglers would be received with
111 the very greatest attention, and would carry infinitely more weight
|) | than quotations such as he has given us from Captain Churchill’s
| (I book. I think that is all I have to say at present. If Captain
| j j Burton would, in answering, give us some of his own experiences,
In I am quite sure he would confer a great favour upon this meeting,
| (I and also on the public in general. (Applause.)
The Chairman—Anyone who would now like to rise and make a few
111 observations will be quite welcome.
j (j Dr. Wyld—Mr. Chairman, if no one else rises I should like to make
111 a very few observations, and to ask Captain Burton a question,
i 11 Towards the conclusion of his paper he said that he had merely given
i (i us a handful of facts, and I think that was about the most important
i | j observation in the paper, because if you refer to the literature in this
i | j room you will find about 1,000 volumes on the subject that Captain Burton
| j I has been speaking of. There is one book in that library which con-
! 11 tains all these narratives that Captain Burton has given us, and about
i 11 twenty times more interesting facts. Therefore, he has given us a mere
111 handful that came to no conclusion. It was a mere narrative of the
: /1 experience of others, and I feel with the two preceding speakers that
II j the great defect in the paper was the absence of personal experiences.
| (| We can all read those books for ourselves, and nine-tenths of those
i 11 present long ago read no end of facts exactly analogous to those that
III Captain Burton has given us. The conclusion that he derives, so far as I
I (! could find out, was that all these wonderful phenomena have been pro-
111 duced by what he calls the Zoo-electric force. I do not know whether
j| j Captain Burton knows anything of Slade and slate-writing. Even
| j | presuming that he does, I may still give a short narrative of Slade’s
111 accomplishments. I was one of those who witnessed Slade’s per-
: | i formances. I had three sittings with him and twenty experiments. A
| (i single experiment will be sufficient. I took a slate in my hand,
! |! with a piece of slate pencil below it. I held my hand over the slate.
! (| Slade was not allowed to touch it, and I got a message containing five
111 family names and a family secret. I should like to ask Captain Burton
I /1 how that could be derived from the Zoo-electric force. I will put it a
| (| little further. I know a lady who puts a slate on the carpet, and sets
i j i her foot on the slate. After a few minutes she takes it up, and finds
!} i the whole side of the slate covered with long writing in the Russian
284
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Deo. 13, 1878.
language, of which language she does not know a single word. I
should like to ask how Zoo-electric force could produce that ? Slade
was utterly ignorant of any language but English, and not very perfect
in that; but in his presence individuals went with slates rivetted
together, or tied together, and they got messages in English, French,
German, Latin, Greek, Arabic, I think, and sometimes Hebrew; at all
events, five out of those languages. I should like, in conclusion, to ask
Captain Burton if he will be kind enough to explain how Zoo-electric
force can write Greek.
Mr. C. C. Massey—I should be sorry if we parted without making it
distinctly understood how thoroughly we all appreciate the very able
and valuable paper which we have listened to this evening. Although a
Spiritualist with spirits, I cannot quite concur in the somewhat, I might
almost say disparaging, remarks which have been made by my friend
Dr. Wyld; for I think that Captain Burton, in calling our attention to
the records of the phenomena, as they are understood and practised in
the East, has done us very great and conspicuous service this evening,
and has indicated a line of study which I hope we shall not neglect, but
which I think Spiritualists in this country have too much neglected.
Much of the slow progress of which Spiritualists complain in this
country is owing to their persistent, dogmatic, and somewhat conceited
ignoring of the phenomena of the same description which occurred in all
former ages of the world. Instead of supposing that we have got what
Mrs. Burton has well described as some new religion, a new revelation
of the last thirty years, all to ourselves—something bran new, which
has never been heard of before—we ought to recognise the continuity of
these things, and connect what takes place now with what has been
observed in all ages of the world. Therefore I think when a person |
of such distinction as Captain Burton calls our attention to the !
phenomena occurring in the East, he does us a great service. There is j
one point of ambiguity which, I think, Captain Burton’s paper puts very I
clearly before us. It is that old confusion between matter and spirit. !
Now, as long as we do not define our terms, it will always be in the
power of a man who admits our phenomena to call himself a materialist, I
and of a man who does not admit our phenomena to call himself a
Spiritualist. I quite understand that any objective phenomena in the i
world, whether in this life or any other life (if there is another life), when j
perceived by any external medium—as it must be in our case—would
necessarily take a material form. Therefore there is no essential differ¬
ence between the phenomena of clairvoyance and the phenomena
apparent to the physical senses. They would both be, according to our i
existing state, material, that is to say, objective phenomena. I think i
the only sound, philosophical distinction between spiritual and material i
is subjective and objective. It comes to that in the end, and it is very
essential that our terms should be defined in some such sense as that, j
I venture to throw out that suggestion. I feel that it is a very great j
presumption for any one to get up in this unusually large audience and j
follow the distinguished speakers whom we have been proud and j
pleased to listen to. I only wish to recall the fact that in the hour when
Spiritualism was most discredited, most decried, and when those who j
pursued these investigations were actually held up as almost unfit for
social toleration, a man of Captain Burton’s great distinction, with his !
character and reputation to lose, and his prospects to imperil possibly, |
came forward and vouched his personal experience and belief in the face
of the world, and, what is more, joined this Association. At the time i
of the prosecution of Slade I transcribed from the journals of the day, j
for future use, the language that was then used about Spiritualists, and j
I hope the time may come when I shall be able to hold that language
up to public reprobation. It was said that not only was Spiritualism a
matter for the police, but the investigators of Spiritualism ought to be
sent to Coventry as socially disreputable. At that very time Captain
Burton, like the brave man that he is, came forward and joined this
Association; and I say that, whatever he may say to us, whatever j
doubts he may cast upon some of the cherished beliefs of Spiritualists, j
we shall listen to him, as persons accustomed to intellectual toleration,
with fairness and consideration. But independently of that, I hope, in i
measuring the degree of cordiality with which we shall receive the vote
of thanks which will by-and-by be moved to him, we shall not forget the
courageous and almost heroic conduct which he then displayed.
(Applause.)
Dr. Carter-Blake—After about eighteen years’ intimate knowledge of
Captain Burton, it may surprise many in this Association—it almost
surprised myself—when I found that I could not agree with him with !
regard to some of the points that he has brought forward. He seems to j
me to go a great deal too far in the direction of what has been, by a I
particular use of words, termed Orthodox Spiritualism. In the excess j
of zeal that he has shown on this occasion—although his paper may not
quite come up to the mark of those who expected from it a full-flavoured
recital of ghost legends, with new scenery, dresses, and decorations !
—we have had a certain canon of thought laid down against which it j
is my duty as a Spiritualist most respectfully to protest. We were told
by Captain Burton that one of the great tests of knowledge was
sensation. Well, I must say that if we were to accept such a theory j
we would not only be reversing the German philosophy of the present
time—the philosophy of the school of Fichte, and Schelling, and Hegel
—but we would place ourselves in antagonism to that older, better worn,
and more thorough Aristotelian philosophy which has shown us how
fallacious the testimony of our senses occasionally is. It is my duty j
merely to refer to a series of experiments described in the little ad- |
mirable work on Physiology which has been published by Professor I
Huxley, which show us that even those persons who have been branded
by the name of materialist (and we can all call one another harsh words |
of five syllables), have been the first to show the fallibility of human j
sensation. I might say that the present moment is rather an unfortu- i
nate one to recall the contests which have taken place between the idealists !
and the sensationalists, when England has to-day to mourn the loss of !
perhaps the greatest idealist philosopher thatEngland has ever produced, 1
j as well as one of her most accurate and painstaking physiologists.
But even in the face of this melancholy fact, although the historian of
modern philosophy in Europe has just gone from amongst us, I ought
not to allow this opportunity to pass without making some protest
against the doctrines of absolute sensationalism. Those doctrines have
led many people into what has been termed materialism, but which,
absolutely, is very often identifiable with what is called Spiritualism by
a large number of people. When they see a materialised spirit-form—
when they are able to touch it, to feel it, to appraise its weight, or to
j photograph it—they at once jump to the conclusion that such object is
governed by laws dissimilar to those which govern what we know of
animate nature. Well, I think that we have another philosophy given
to us which seems to have taken the place of the old Greek philosophy,
and. as a disciple of Spinoza, Schelling, and Hegel, I cannot agree with
| the sentiments of Captain Burton this evening. But while dissenting
from the point of view which he has taken from a purely metaphysical
! standpoint, I cannot but give my humble tribute of admiration to the
j profundity, the accuracy, the completeness, and the conciseness of a
1 paper which is one of the most important that we have had. Possibly
my old friendship with Captain Burton may induce many to suspet
me of partiality, but I hope that none will consider, on account of the
length to which I have spoken this evening, that I have been led into
diffuseness.
Mr. Thomas Shorter—I do not know that I have any observations to
make, especially at this late hour, and in the present heated state of the
room. I can only add my testimony to the courage which has been
displayed by Captain Burton in coming forward as he has done, not only
on this occasion, but also on an earlier occasion, when the fury of the
press and of public opinion raged even more vehemently than during
the time of Dr. Slade. Captain Burton, as upon a more recent occa¬
sion, came forward and publicly gave the benefit of his name and repu¬
tation to the genuineness of the phenomena from the Brothers Davenport.
Of course I cannot say that I coincide with the views of Captain Burton,
but I do not know that this is the proper occasion to controvert his
views. I think we have rather to express our indebtedness to him for
the facts he has brought under our notice, which are exceedingly valu¬
able, and also to his excellent lady for her most valuable postscript. At
the same time I do not think there was that ambiguity in Captain
Burton’s views which seemed to be implied by the observations of the
gentleman who next succeeded him. I should certainly have been very
grateful to Captain Burton if he had favoured us with an account of his
own experience rather than the accounts which we are most of us
familiar with. These are exceedingly valuable, but if time will not
j permit at present, I trust on a future occasion we may have another
i paper from Captain Burton, in which he will give us his experience at
j length. I can only say I hope before we separate there will be some
; one or more persons present who may favour us with some of their ex¬
periences in the East as the result of their own personal observations.
I am sure we shall listen with very great respect to any statements
j which may be made to us by persons of their own observations and ex¬
perience in the East. As Captain Burton has referred to the crystals, I
may say that there is a gentleman present who has had perhaps larger
experience in this phase of Spiritualism than any other man in Eng¬
land, and if it is agreeable to him, I hope we shall have a few observa-
| tions from him with reference to the large and valuable fund of experi¬
ence that he has had in that respect. It would be easy to give speci-
j mens from every branch and phase of Spiritualism in reference to the
| difficulties which it seems to me would beset any theory of mere life
magnetism, Zoo-electricity, or whatever other term may be applied to
some mere unintelligent force, that is to say a force distinguished from
| personality, distinguished from individual consciousness and identity,
j I think it would be extremely difficult for Captain Burton to reconcile
j even the facts that he has himself narrated with that.
! Mr. Spencer—I wish to say that I have listened with a great deal of
attention and pleasure to the paper by my old acquaintance, Captain
I Burton. I little thought when we have conversed together upon other
j subjects that he entertained even those notions that he has expressed
j this evening. I think, under the circumstances, this assembly ought to
| be exceedingly grateful for what he has already given us, without
| perhaps calling upon him to do much more. One gentleman remarked
| that the adherence of a celebrated man like Captain Burton would be a
I great thing for Spiritualism. Now, my"experience has been this, that
I whenever a man of high reputation has adhered to Spiritualism, the
| world endeavoured to denude him of that reputation immediately,
j (Hear, hear.) One gentleman spoke of subjective phenomena, others
! of objective phenomena. The gentleman to my left has spoken about
j the phenomena in the East; may I describe some objective phenomena
| that took place in the West in my own presence P Previously I was
i not a great believer in what I heard of Spiritualism, although to a
certain extent, nay, to a great extent, I believed in what was usually
j called mesmerism and Braidism, but I believe that one objective pheno-
j menon is worth all the subjective, because there are so many modes of
j explaining these latter. Any man who believes at all in imagination
will show you that everything may be explained by referring it to the
j imagination. Now I had heard a good deal about table-turning, and I
| had made some successful experiments, which were published by the
authority of the Liverpool Philosophical Society. It was not my idea
i to publish, but simply to read them as papers; but they thought so
| much of the experiments that they published them. That far I went,
but no farther. On one occasion, when I was expecting to be called as
| a witness on a Parliamentary Committee with other scientific experts,
I the committee was broken up before it ought to have been, and
i I suggested that a few of us from different towns should
i dine together. Dr. Angus Smith—a Government inspector, and a
! well-known scientific man—said that he could not join us, as
j he was going on a table-turning expedition. I tapped my old friend on
‘ the shoulder, and said, “ Why, nonsense! you don’t mean to say you
Dec. 13, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
285
believe in that?” “Well,” he said, “my brother, who is a professor at j !
a mathematical college at Bath, has seen it, and it is very striking : (
indeed.” “ Well,” I asked, “ where is it ?” “ In Jermyn-street.” He If
told me about the celebrated medium, Home. I said, “ I have seen j \
people sitting round a table and the table moving, but how can you know |
that some of them have not moved the table ? Ob, nonsense,” I added, |
“ I should not go to that; he might have machinery there, or at least it i
might be said so.” Professor Berneys, and one or two other chemical ; <
professors, were with us, and I said, “ Why can’t we throw tickets into i
a hat, with the names of our houses on them, and let us go to which | i
ever house we take out.” This was done (with the exception of Dr. j <
Smith, who was only in lodgings), and the lot fell upon a gentleman in j ]
Finchley-road. Well, we chartered some cabs, and went to Mr. Home j i
in Jermyn-street, and took him to Finchley-road. I thought it was a : 1
species of humbug; or at all events I left my mind rather open to i '
believe it might be so. I was then introduced to Home for the first
time, and I must tell you I did not think him the most intellectual man
in the world; in fact, I had not a very high opinion of him. There were
ten gentlemen together around the table. I was sitting with my back
to the fire, and I complained, and I asked if there was a screen they
could put there. There was no screen, and, therefore, the table was
pushed away from the spot where it was originally placed. I say this
to show that there could have been no mechanism of any sort. The
table was a heavy old loo table. The table was raised. My hands were
upon it, and I looked around, but I could not say whether any foot had
been doing anything underneath. In fact, I was sceptical. At last,
somewhat excited, I said, “Will you allow me to sit at the table by |
myself? The spirits that you say you have invoked to raise the table j
will surely be able to lift it with my hands upon it, and I know I cannot
do it myself.” After some little altercation, which took up time, this j
. was agreed to. I sat at the table by myself, and told every one to go as
far away as possible. The Scotch professor said I was very suspicious J
indeed, but they left me at the table alone, and the table rose with my
hands upon it. Now this was an objective experiment which I do not
think can be explained by anything that my old friend Captain Burton !
has named. I had been taking notes with a little screw pencil, and the
angle of the table increased so much that the pencil was rolling off. I j
said, “The power that has lifted the table will surely prevent that !
pencil from rolling off,” and there the pencil stuck.
The Chairman—Although this is extremely interesting, I must ask
you to be as concise as possible.
Mr. Spencer—I will only occupy your time two minutes longer. The
table went down very easily, and I said, “ Will you allow me to try and !
lift it now that it is down ?” Three knocks gave assent, and I tried to i
lift the table; but it stuck to the floor as if it had been glued :
or screwed. I have always said since that nothing earthly will j
ever prevent my believing that there are powers of which I know I
nothing. That was a mechanical power, exercised mechanically. It |
cannot be included in psychology exactly, but it was a simple objective |
fact.
Mrs. Hallock—As no one has touched upon one or two points I wish
to do so, though I shall not do it very well, I am afraid. I have been
extremely interested in the paper, but do not at all agree with my friend
Dr. Wyld, that because there are so many volumes containing accounts
of these phenomena, we therefore do not need to hear about them from
a person who has read, perhaps, more than we have. It is much more
agreeable to listen to a person who has read and digested these things j
than to read them for ourselves; at least, it is in my case. I am very
much afraid that this form of “ Spiritualism without spirits ” is on the
increase. I hope no one present will catch Captain Burton’s disease,
for I think it is almost a disease. I think that many of us are getting
afraid that we shall believe in spirits. We think it is so much more j
fashionable to say there is a sixth or seventh sense. I do not accuse j
Captain Burton of not being courageous. Of course, that would be a I
very stupid thing for me to say, but everybody has a wee bit of i
cowardice—(laughter)—and perhaps Captain Burton was afraid to say it,
and has had to let Mrs. Burton say it for him. (Laughter.) I know it
is getting very late, and I must not say much; but my quarrel is
much more with Mrs. Burton than with her husband, because she
complains of people who think it is a new religion. It is true
there are such people, and I wish there were a great many more. I
think it is not only a new religion, but a renewal of old things which
were laid aside, perhaps, with too little consideration. I say it is as a
religion that Spiritualism is going to stand. If it is not a religion it
will be remitted to the position that it held in the East, and if anybody
here has any respect for the state of things in the East that is more than
I have. (Laughter.) I care nothing for all those phenomena. I con¬
sider that they are trash, although Mr. Massey, who is very much more
learned than I am, thinks them worthy of consideration. I think we have
heard quite as much about them from Captain Burton to-night as they
are worth. (Laughter.) But it is this religion that I want to say one more
word about. It is not only a religion, but it is a science, and it is
because it is a religious science and a scientific religion that we are
going to make it do what it has begun to do, that is to leaven the whole
world. The future of Spiritualism will be greater than anything else
in the past history of mankind. We are told that history repeats itself.
I think it has repeated itself quite enough in some respects, and now
we are going to have a new future for the world if Spiritualists are
true to the great mission that is presented to them from the spirit
world, which is full of spirits in my estimation.
Mr. Harrison—At this late hour I will not detain the meeting more
than a few minutes. Like all the preceding speakers, I am sure we are
very much indebted to Captain Burton for the very interesting paper
he has read to us this evening. I should like to ask one question, and
that is, whether there is any physical evidence of the existence of this
Zoo-electric force, or of any force not commonly recognised by physicists,
coming from the human body. We all know that Dubois-Raymond and
others discovered that electricity in closed circuits is present in the
human body, and that it proceeds from the interior to the exterior of
nerves: it is also a well-established fact that when people lay hold of the
i terminals connected with an extremely sensitive reflecting galvanometer,
they can get a deflection with it. Mr. Yarley, the Atlantic telegraph elec¬
trician, and myself, went through some experiments in search of any
electricity connected with psychic phenomena, but we could not prove
j that any current came from our hands, or that electricity caused spirit
raps. It appeared as if some chemical action was set up between the
surfaces of the skin and the handles we grasped, or the water terminals
employed, and that that was the cause of the current. Mr. Yarley
quite demonstrated this in some cases. Our chairman perhaps could
throw some light upon that point, and he is a trustworthy authority on
this subject; but I am not aware at the present time that there is any
| evidence of psychic or Zoo-electric force coming from the human body,
1! and the word “ magnetism,” applied by some people to mesmeric or
11 spiritual phenomena, is altogether a misnomer. Scientific Spiritualists,
11 who have carefully experimented with the most delicate instruments,
J i have been altogether unable to detect the presence of magnetism. In
)! fact, the human body is diamagnetic. To misuse a word which has
> I already a distinct meaning in physics, tends to implant confusion in the
| public mind.
The Chairman—It is getting so late that I shall not take up much
) | of your time. Electricity is a science with a very broad back, and
(i anything that has been difficult to understand has often been ascribed
(| to electrical agency. Therefore, I am not at all surprised that Captain
) j Burton has given a new name to what was formerly called the psychic
< I force. I have never been able to find any evidence whatever
\ I that there is any electricity whatever produced by the human body.
) | If there is, the quantity is so insignificant in comparison with
| i the great chemical changes continually taking place, that we
\ | must presume that in psychic phenomena there is an additional
agency at play. In regard to the raison d'etre of Spiritualistic
j societies, I really think we must claim some other reasons for our
I existence than that which has been adduced. We claim, and Captain
Burton supports our claim to a very great extent, I think, that there
| are very great new truths before us which are by no means perfectly
| understood, and that every facility that can be given for their study is
a direct benefit, and one of the most important benefits that could
be conferred upon humanity. Before asking Captain Burton to reply
to what we have said in relation to his paper, I have only to say that I
think if he and Mrs. Burton would discuss the matter thoroughly
together, and arrive at a mean between their present conclusions, it
would be very much the same conclusion as that which is so popular
here. I gather from what Mrs. Burton said that she is a Spiritualist
par excellence, only she believes in old Spiritualism, and does not exactly
believe in the new. I feel that her Spiritualism would be carried a
great deal further even than ours; and if she would neutralise her
notions by those of her husband, and if on the other hand her hus¬
band would sink a little of his materialism in her spirituality, they
would then strike out a very valuable average. (Laughter.) I have
| now to ask Captain Burton to reply. (Applause.)
Captain Burton—If you will allow me I will take the objectors in the
j order of their coming. Mrs. Burton has informed you that in this last
paper I have been “ trimming.” I think you will own that it is the
I first time I have ever trimmed, and I can certainly promise you never
to trim again. A man’s wife knows, perhaps, too much about him. I
| think it scarcely fair to have his character drawn by his wife. I do
not think gentlemen would go to their wives, or that wives would go to
| their husbands, in order to know exactly what they are. (Laughter.)
j The chairman first remarked that there is very little difference between
i my notions and those of the generality of Spiritualists; but he also
alluded to an “invisible matter, a substance not known to chemists.”
I Now, how is the existence of this substance proven? By spectrum
analysis, or by the human mind, or out of the depth of your self-
consciousness ?
The Chairman—By the sight.
Captain Burton—Then it is not invisible ?
The Chairman—It is always visible to certain persons.
Captain Burton—Therefore it is not invisible. But I object to
I your phrase “invisible matter, a substance not known to chemists.”
II Mr. Wallace has been extremely kind in setting the ball going, and he
i j also found for the first time how very much I do believe.) I believe that
1 the great difference is that the Spiritualist proper—the complete Spirit-
(j ualist-—believes that he is conversing with the spirits of departed
) I beings. That is one of those canons laid down by Mr. Crookes.
(| Mr. Crookes—I believe that is one of them.
Captain Burton—You called that Spiritualism proper; whereas the
\ | belief that it is the work of the Devil you called the voice of the Church,
) j did you not? (Laughter.) Mr. Wallace was kind enough to suggest
S | that I should give you some personal experiences, and I believe the
) | same thing was also mentioned by other gentlemen; but the fact is, at
) | this hour it would be almost impossible. Moreover, at the end of this
^ | paper I referred you to a number of things I have written, in which
)! there are my own personal experiences. For instance, alluding to the
(| practice of Sufism, in my History of Sindh, I gave an account of a very
0 long training I went through. But I shall be happy to prepare, as one
)! of the speakers suggested, another paper if you choose to hear if.
(j (Applause.) Mr. Crookes, in his extremely kind notice of my lecture,
S | alluded to ‘‘ psychic force,” for which I have chosen to use another word.
)| Psychic force is, I believe, getting out of fashion, and, if I am not
(j somewhat mistaken, my learned friend Serjeant Cox proposed to
{| abolish the use of the term altogether, and -to adopt another expression
/1 —pneuma. With respect to Dr. Wyld, he has come to the conclusion
^! chiefly, I am told, by the experiments with Dr. Slade, that it is possible
(i for a man not knowing Greek to write Greek. He also mentions five
\\ other languages similarly written, without telling us, however, whether
286
THE SPIRITUALIST
Deo. 13, 1878.
any one of those languages was absolutely unknown to every person
present.
Dr. Wyld—Yes, in my own case: not in all cases.
Captain Burton—That is the most important point of all, because
believing in this Zoo-electricity and the force of will, and believing also
in thought-reading, it is to me perfectly evident that if a medium
is able to read thoughts, it is simply the action of himself and of those
around him. The grand point in question is to know whether those
languages were entirely unknown to any one present, and also if
the latter had never learned those languages, because if any of them
had ever learned the language the knowledge might return. I am sorry
Dr. Wyld alluded to a book called the Isis Unveiled, because that book
is the production of a person who evidently knows nothing of the
subject. (Messrs. Blake and Massey : “ No ! No ! ”) It is a collection
of stories, put together without the slightest discrimination between
Mussulman and Hindu, and, in fact, it is one of those repositories
which may be useful to take up occasionally, but which is not to be
quoted as an authority. Mr. Massey very correctly interpreted me,
and I hope with him that the truth will prevail in this room and every¬
where else. Dr. Blake regretted that he could not agree with me.
Now, my friend of many years’ standing says that I go too far, while
Dr. Wyld says I do not go far enough. Dr. Blake quoted some great
German names on the subject of idealism versus sensationalism, and
very great English names too. In my remarks I was merely speaking
of the matter individually. I warned you I did not pretend to any
form of truth except what is truth to myself—that it might be true
individually, and at the same time not true either collectively or
relatively. My old friend Mr. Spencer has told us a long story about
a table, and he is right in what he says about the danger of adhering
to Spiritualism. It was only the other day that I was treated with
some disdain by a lady who heard that 1 was going to lecture upon
Spiritualism. She thought it horrible that I should enter a room where
Spiritualists were. (Laughter.) I understand perfectly that if there
be such a thing as electric force or Zoo-electricity, it might cause a table
to rise without difficulty. We know nothing whatever of the power.
Mrs. Hallock has been kind enough, with that peculiar frankness which
characterises the sex, to lecture me upon my “wee bit of cowardice.”
She also seems to have fearful ideas of “ Spiritualists without the
spirits,” and she also finds that this abominable heresy is on the
increase. It must be painful to her, as she evidently looks forward to
converting the whole world—not in the East, because she disdains the
East, and I presume that the West will appreciate her perhaps more
than the East. Mr. Harrison has objected that Zoo-electric force does
not exist; that, in fact, the human body does not contain any electricity.
He qualified the assertion, however, by saying that there might be a
little, but not enough to have much effect. That is a matter of dispute,
and a number of French and American magnetists and mesmerists still
assert that it does. Every one here present understands what
“mesmerism” and “magnetism” mean. As a rule, men use the
words without attaching any particular theory to them. I do not think
we need to be afraid of going too far upon those points. I did not
venture to include so well-known a scientist as Mr. Crookes among the
red or black terrors. The chairman very properly remarked,
“electricity has a very broad back,” and wants it. We all know how
electricity has been brought to explain every mysterious thing. He
objects that I have no stronger raison d’etre for a Spiritualistic society
than that of giving greater boldness to men in expressing their belief,
whether true or false, especially when their beliefs are unpopular. I
consider such a raison d'etre as this amply sufficient. The chairman j |
tells us that the true raisons d'etre are the “ new truths ” that he finds j)
in it. Without quoting the old saying about what is true not being j (
new, and what is new not being true, I very much doubt whether the j
“new truths” are so valuable as the new fact of encouraging men to j)
tell the truth about old things. He also advises me to discuss th j j (
matter with Mrs. Burton, and to settle our little domestic quarrel at j |
home; in fact, he wants to make me a kind of primal Adam—“male j)
and female created He him.” Ladies ani gentlemen, I am exceedingly j(
obliged to you for the kindness with which you have received me.
The Chairman—I think it is hardly necessary to ask for a show of 1)
hands. Captain Burton hits hard, but open-handed, and we should i j
like to have some more hits from him. I am sure we should like to j j
reply to what he says, and in endeavouring to meet him on his own j f
ground, we shall assuredly strengthen ourselves. Pro forma I will j i
ask for a show of hands, according him a cordial vote of thanks.
The proposal was unanimously responded to. i <
THE LAST OF BARON DE PALM.
The New York Sun of November 21st contains an account of an
extraordinary rite performed under the auspices of the Theosophical
Society. The reporter says that it was “ a very solemn and very
peculiar ceremony, beginning in the Lamasery, and ending in a boat j
on the bay ” :—
The four pounds of calcined residuum, which were all that remained
of the bodily frame of the late Joseph Henry Louis, Baron de Palm,
Grand Cross Commander of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre, Knight
of Malta, Prince of the Holy Roman Empire, late Chamberlain to His
Majesty the King of Bavaria, Fellow of the Theosophical Society, &c.,
after his cremation in Pennsylvania, were last night cast into the sea
with appropriate ceremonies.
This last rite of respect, which was paid by the Theosophical Society,
was never before performed in Europe or America, because, as Hiero¬
phant Olcott says, the formula was lost in the ages during which the
language of the Yedas has been gradually forgotten. This formula !
has only lately been rescued from oblivion by the Swamee, Dya Nand
Sarasevati, Pandit, the founder of the Arya-Samaj, the great Yedic
religious society of India, with which the Theosophical Society has
recently affiliated. He has published a Veda Bashya, or commentary
on the Yedas, in which the appropriate ceremony for the disposal of
human ashes is described. Some weeks ago an account of this
ceremony was published in the Sun, and last night the ceremony itself,
with such variations as circumstances compelled, was performed by the
Theosophs,
“ The poor old Baron has had his fill of notoriety,” said Colonel
Olcott, the president of the society, when the writer urged the publi¬
cation of an account of the ceremony. “ My own wish would be to
have this final episode kept strictly private.”
After some discussion by the council of the society, however, it was
determined to authorise the publication, the writer being strictly
forbidden to mention name or place, excepting the name of Colonel
Olcott himself and Madame H. P. Blavatsky, the real founder of the
society, and its corresponding secretary. The discussion, like all the
meetings of the Theosophs for two years past, was held at the
“ Lamasery,” at the corner of Eighth-avenue and Forty-seventh-street.
The place, which is a spacious French flat and the residence of several
Theosophs, has become so well known as a school of mysticism that a
reporter, some time ago, called it by the name of the training schools
or colleges of the Thibetan priests or lamas, and the society adopted
that name.
At the Lamasery, one night last week, their instructions were given
to such of the society as were assigned to join in the ash ceremony,
and last night a certain small lodge-room in the upper part of the
city was rented for the evening. Those who entered were twenty-one
in number, including an attendant of the high priest of the occasion.
Each one was obliged to pass three guards, giving to the first a small
triangular paper inscribed with Sanskrit characters, to the second the
grip of the society, and to the third a whispered password. All were
muffled in wrappers until their faces were invisible, and several came
to the door in carriages. Among the latter was the high priest with
his attendant. The priest passed at once to an ante-room, where he
remained alone until all was made ready for the ceremony. “ He is
the same Hindoo who was seen at the cremation,” said Colonel Olcott
to the visitor, “ and whose sudden disappearance was the occasion of
so much comment in the newspapers. You will probably not see his
face at all, but if you do see it you will recognise his nationality at
once.”
All the paraphernalia of the occasion, which were very simple, were
ready before the arrival of the small company. An altar, seemingly of
stone, stood near the upper end of the room. It was about four feet
in height, six feet long, and three feet wide. On it was a small pile
of light cedar splinters placed in rectangular shape. In front of the
stone altar stood the vase in which the ashes have been kept. This
was an urn of unburnt clay, covered with Hindoo figures in red and
black designs. The urn is shaped not unlike a huge goblet, and has
a cover of similar workmanship to its own. Inside this urn were
the ashes.
Two handfuls of white dust
Shut in an urn of brass.
Only in this case the urn was not of brass, and there was far more
than two handfuls of the dust. When the cover was removed, in the
course of the ceremony, the ashes were seen to be almost entirely white,
though in places there were traces of grey, said to be the traces of iron
in the Baron’s composition.
The company all put on, in one of the ante-rooms, long flowing robes
of thin black stuff, similar to those worn by the seven priests at the
pagan funeral in the Masonic Temple, in May, 1876. Then all
marched into the main room in single file, Colonel Olcott leading and
Madame H. P. Blavatsky following next. Marching once around the
altar, they stood in three lines, forming a triangle, with the altar in the
centre. As they marched, five or six, who were good singers, sang a
hymn, or chant, in the Hindoo language, some of them reading the
words from manuscript held in their hands, and others apparently
either knowing the language or having committed the words to
memory.
The meaning of the words was an invocation to Iswara to bless the
spirit of the departed brother, and to receive his spirit, as the sea was
about to receive his ashes.
When the chant was finished, the celebrant, or high priest, entered
from the ante-room, followed by his attendant. Both wore loose,
flowing robes of white, and both had their heads covered with black
cowls or veils. These veils were of a heavier texture than the heaviest
veils the American ladies wear, and concealed the faces of the two
Hindoos completely. Their hands were bare, and were slender,
sinewy, and of the tint common in Oriental nations. On the neck of
the high priest blazed a collar of seven rows of what appeared to be
brilliants of the first water. The magnificence of the ornament was
almost beyond description. It was the only ornament visible, and his
only insignia was a huge emerald intaglio, the design of which was too
intricate to decipher, even at a few feet distance. This hung from
his collar over his breast. The attendant, a junior priest, wore no
ornament or insignia. On the robe of each of the Theosophs was
embroidered in white the emblem of the society, excepting that the
emblem on the robe of the president, Colonel Olcott, was embroidered
in gold.
The high priest walked with solemn steps slowly up to the pyre,
the line of Theosophists breaking to make way for him to pass, and
forming again when he had passed inside. Approaching close to the
pyre, he stood for fully three minutes with his head bent on his breast,
apparently in silent prayer. Then he raised his head slightly, and
the attendant priest poured over the little wooden pile a small quantity
of a golden-coloured fluid, which was known by those present to be
ffhee, or clarified butter. He then threw on three handfuls of spices
I
!
Deo. 13, 1878.
287
THE SPIRITUALIST.
and aromatic stuff, and holding in his left hand a small wand of
resinous-looking wood, he touched the extremity of it with his right
forefinger. It immediately blazed up in a small blue, flickering flame,
and with an obeisance he turned to the high priest and handed him
the curiously lighted torch.
While the high priest held the torch in his hand the attendant
stooped to the urn, and taking up between his thumb and forefinger a
small quantity of the ashes he sprinkled it over the pyre. This was
understood to typify the original cremation, which, as will be remem¬
bered, was performed at Dr. Lemoyne’s furnace in Washington, Pa.,
without religious ceremonies of any kind. Then, as a chant, again in
Hindoo, consisting only of thirty or forty words, was sung by the
singers, the high priest touched the pyre with the torches. It blazed
up fiercely, and a thick, black smoke rose to the ceiling. The per¬
fume was strong and heavy, and unlike anything the writer had ever
known.
While it blazed the high priest, first handing the torch back to the
attendant, in whose hands it flickered and went out, recited a long
prayer or invocation in Hindoo. Its meaning in English is as follows,
some portions of the prayer, which has already been published in full
in the Sun, being omitted on account of its length :—
“ Do thou, oh soul, by the grace of Grod and by thine own merits,
depart by the best paths to the best regions. Oh, being, may thine
eyes be assimilated to the sun. May thy soul go to the wind. Do
thou depart by thy merit to the glory of the sun, or be happy on earth,
or go to the region of the clouds, or re-enter life where thou wilt be
happy. Do thou live contented in the vegetable world, and having
entered blessed human life, do thou attain the highest good. Oh,
being, do thou glorify thy valour and greatness. May the light of thy
mind glorify thee and thy body. Oh, blessed and perfect God, bless
this being, and take him to the regions of the blessed. Oh, being, may
this body, created by the grace of God, be happy and beneficent. The
funeral fire is kravagada. We waft that fire to the distance. May it
reach the regions of the wind midway between heaven and earth.
That fire is rapid in flight. May it take thee quickly to the blessed
regions. May other sacrificial fires and the grace of God ever shine in
our midst, and bless the learned. Oh, being, do thou depart to the
blessed regions. Do thou enjoy perpetual air, the firmament, the
blessed body, the equally blessed knowledge and communion with God,
and having enjoyed long life and the comforts thereof, do thou again
separate thyself from the body and enter another blessed life 
Oh, Indra, the Lord of lords, do thou again bless the mortal being and
ourselves with the blessed senses and the government of the earth,
whereby we may enjoy the earth in a better life. Do thou engage
this being, as well as ourselves, in good and pious deeds. Oh, exalted
God! bless our people and take this being to the celestial regions and
make him happy. Lord, do thou make this being happy in future
life. May this funeral ceremony prove a blessing to this being. May
the regions of the sky, dark at night, fair in the day, and ruddy in the
morning and evening, be a source of blessing to this being 
Oh, being, thy mind having traversed the regions of the wind and the
light of the sun, has travelled far May thy mind grasp
the light of the sun, the earth, the land, and the four directions, the
sea, the rays of the sun, water, the vegetable kingdom, the dawn, the
moving universe, the stars and planets, the past and future times, and
if thou desirest anything beyond this, may thy mind be liberated from
desire by the grace of God.”
As the flame from the pyre died slowly away, and the last of the
embers was being consumed, the whole company recited in English a
shorter prayer. This was done in unison, Hierophant Olcott lead¬
ing. This prayer was a benison on the departed soul of the dead
theosophist, invoking for him all blessings, and closing with the words
“ Just as water blesses a thirsty person, so may all creatures be a
blessing to thee. In like manner may water and all substances by the
will of Iswara bless thee, in order that thou mayest be happy wherever
thou art. We pray that thou mayest be free from all evils. May He
accept our prayer and bless thee always.”
The scene was a strange one, and the countenances of all who were
present showed that to them the ceremony was solemn. The flickering
light of the blazing pyre, while it burned, lent almost a ghostly air to
the small room, bare of furniture, and occupied only by the strangely-
robed mourners. There was, certainly, the solemnity of a funeral,
even if no marked expression of grief was shown.
When the flame had died away, the celebrant stooped to the urn,
and taking up a small quantity of the ashes in his hand, he cast it
into a brazen vessel filled with water, saying in English of perfect pro¬
nunciation, but peculiar accent:—
“As I now scatter the mortal remains of our brother over the
waters of the sea, so his spirit has gone into eternity. May the forces
of the nature of which he was a part preserve his spirit, as it will his
material elements.”
This, it was understood, was merely a symbolical scattering, and the
actual consignment of the ashes to the sea remained to be accom¬
plished. The little company dispersed, and Colonel Olcott, the writer,
the veiled Hindoo, and two other Theosophists, carrying the vase of
ashes with them, drove to the river, where a small vessel was in wait¬
ing. A profound silence was maintained while the party embarked
and proceeded down the bay until it came abreast of Governor’s Island,
when, at a sign from Colonel Olcott, the boat was stopped, with the
bow turned to the east.
Moving to the bow of the boat, the Hierophant, with bare head, and
holding the vase breast high, faced in turn the four quarters of the
heavens. Finally turning to the east and looking seaward, he raised
and extended the vase at arms’ length. Then, grasping a handful of
the snowy ashes, he scattered them upon the wind, which bore them
away. He then poured what remained of the ashes on the waves,
saying
I! “ Oh, Mother Sea ! from whose depths all mankind were evolved
take into thy bosom these relics of poor humanity, and guard them
! against profanation until the cycles are accomplished, and the Great
Pralaya come ! ”
With these words the impressive ceremonies of the evening, rescued
1 now from the oblivion of ages, came to a close.
! The boat returned to the pier from which it had started, and the
little company, still silent, debarked. As they walked up the street of
j the city, the Hindoo, without a word of farewell, disappeared in
1 the darkness. The writer looked around in search of him, but he was
| gone.
THE STIGMATA.
On invitation of the venerable pastor of the parish, I had
! the happiness, on the 6th day of last June, of administering
| Holy Communion to Louise Lateau, the well-known sufferer
| with stigmata. Her home is situated about a quarter of a
Smile from the church, and is an isolated house on the road¬
side. On the way a gentleman preceded ringing a small
bell, two others followed carrying torches, another supported
| an umbrella-like canopy over the Blessed Sacrament. A few
! other devout persons followed. Along the road many were
i kneeling, and, when we passed, joined in the procession, so
| that by the time we reached the house, at the early hour of
6 a.m., the number was quite large. Arriving at the humble
home, the little cottage was soon filled. Louise had been
| keeping her bed since the death of Pius IX. She wore, on
j this occasion, a simple calico dress. The expression of her
! countenance indicated suffering, and her breathing was
| difficult. Her eyes were closed, and she appeared insensible
I to anything in her presence; but when I pronounced the
! words u Corpus Domini Nostri” &c., she opened her mouth
| and received the particle like any other invalid. I took
| particular notice of the stigmata on the back of her hands.
| They have the appearance of a half-red cherry stuck on the
I skin. Every day after Communion she is immediately in
| ecstasy for about fifteen minutes, after which she becomes
I impassable to all earthly things, and is absorbed altogether
| in God. The Holy Eucharist has been her only nourish-
I ment since the 30th of March, 1871. She has no need of
| eating, drinking, or sleeping, and is impassable alike to the
I colds of winter and the heats of summer. While she is in
! ecstasy the people present talk and wonder, she alone hear-
| ing nothing of what is going on about her, nor does - she
| see anything. The sisters and other ladies in the room
! kissed the stigmata on her hands, others applied the crosses
! of their beads to them. At the end of about ten minutes
! a venerable gentleman of the company begged us to retire,
i for, said he, if she should return to her natural state it
i would be painful to her to see the company.
Louise belongs to the Third Order of St. Francis, and lives
I in the paternal home with her two sisters. Her father died
I when she was quite an infant; her mother passed away
| about four years ago. When the children were young, the
family was very poor, but at the present they are comfortably
! situated. The house is kept scrupulously neat, and adorned
| with tasty religious pictures.
Bois d’Haine has become quite a pilgrimage. I remarked
|! j that it must be quite a labour for the good parish priest to
! ] | give Communion to Louise every day, but I was answered
i1 ! that it was not, as there were always priests from other parts
|! i to do it. The pastor gives only on Fridays. A splendid
I! church in the Gothic style and cruciform has been built at
I Bois d’Haine. The altars are carved out of white stone.
| The stained-glass windows behind the altar are particularly
j rich. I was surprised how Father Wiely, the pastor, had
been able to build such a church in a small country village.
| The answer was, that great families of Belgium, France,
Germany, and even England, had come to see Louise, and
had left many gifts, and thus enabled Father Wiely to build
I a church that would be an ornament in any city in the
United States. Nearly 3,000 years ago David wrote :
! “ God is wonderful in His Saints.” At present He is very
I wonderful in Louise Lateau. People come from all parts to
| see the wonder, admire it, and return home giving thanks.
: Though a poor girl, living in a humble peasant’s house, yet
I she has more visitors than all the sovereigns of Europe.—
1 Catholic Columbian.
Dec. 13, 1878.
288
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE POWERS OF THE HUMAN SPIRIT.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist." \ )
Sib,—The enclosed narrative, headed u Mollie Fancher j
Again,” is taken from The Detroit Evening News of the ]
23rd inst. I
Doubtless you have heard of the case, accounts of which j 1
have occasionally found their way into some of the public j j
journals. I
While living in New York, we often heard of this remark- !
able case from persons who were familiar with it. Dr. 11
Crowell took special pains to obtain its history, and, strange |
as the account may seem, it is undoubtedly true:—
“ The remarkable story of the Brooklyn young lady who j
had existed for twelve years without food, and under certain !
other remarkable conditions, an abstract of which has been j
published in these columns, has been corroborated by Dr. i |
West, principal of Brooklyn Heights Seminary, in a letter !
to a lady in Buffalo. After giving a detailed account of the j
injury she received and its remarkable psychological and |
physiological effects, he gives a synopsis of her present con- I
dition:— I
u For twelve years or more she has lain in one position on I
her right side. For nine years she was paralysed, her j
muscles only relaxing under the influence of chloroform. |
For the last three years she has been in a new condition— 11
the limp instead of the rigid. Her muscles are so relaxed j
that her limbs can be moved without the aid of chloroform, j
While passing into this state her sufferings were intense. I j
For days it did not seem possible that she could live. Her I
eyes were open and staring. For nine years they had been !
closed. Now they were open and never closing day nor !
night. They were sightless. She could swallow, but take j
no food; even the odour of it was offensive. During this j
twelve years’ illness there have been times when she had not j
the use of anyone of her senses. For many days together j
she had been to all appearance dead. The slightest pulse j
could not be detected—there was no evidence of respiration, j
Her limbs were as cold as ice, and had there not been some j j
warmth about her heart she would have been buried, j j
During all these years she has virtually lived without food, j j
Water, the juices of fruits and other liquids, have been intro- j !
duced into her mouth, but scarcely any of them ever make | !
their way to her stomach. So sensitive has this organ be- j |
come, it will not retain anything within it. In the early ! j j
part of her illness it collapsed, so that by placing the hand j j
in the cavity her spinal column could be felt. There was no j j
room for food. Her throat was rigid as a stick. Swallowing j j
was out of the question. Her heart was greatly enlarged, j
Severe pains passed from it through her left side and j j
shoulder. With slight exceptions she has been blind, j j
When I first saw her she had but one sense—that of touch, j (j
With that she could read with many times the rapidity of j j
one by eyesight. This she did by running her fingers over j j
the printed page with equal facility in light or darkness, j i
With the fingers she could discriminate the photographs of
persons, the faces of callers, &c. She never sleeps, her j |
rest being taken in trances. The most delicate work is done j j
in the night. She performs none of the ordinary functions j /!
of life, except that of breathing. The circulation is sluggish, I j
and, as a consequence, there is very little animal heat. She I j
longs to die, but says she cannot, as there is nothing to die. I I
Such is the brief statement of her bodily condition.
“ Her mental state is more extraordinary. Her power of j
clairvoyance, or second sight, is marvellously developed. All ! j
places in which she takes an interest are open to her mental I i
vision. Distance interposes no barriers. No retirement, I j I
however secluded, but yields to her penetrating gaze. She j |
dictates the contents of sealed letters, which have never been j j
in her hands, without the slightest error. She visits the j j
family circle of her relations and acquaintances in remote j j
places and describes their attire and their occupation. She 11 j
points out any disorder of dress, however slight, as the bast- j j
ing thread in the sleeve of a sack, which, to ordinary sight, I |
was concealed by the arm. Any article which has been mis- I |
laid she sees and tells where it may be found. She dis- j j
criminates in darkness the most delicate shades of colour j j j
with an accuracy, that never errs. She works in embroidery j j
and wax without patterns. She conceives the most beauti- j i
ful forms and combinations of forms. She never studied i' 1
botany or took a lesson in wax-work, and yet she never mis¬
takes the form of leaf or flower. Leaves with their ribs or
veins, their phylotaxis; flowers, with calyx, corolla, stamens
with their anthers, are given with a most truthful regard to
nature. Holding pen or pencil in her left hand, she writes
with extraordinary rapidity. Her penmanship is handsome
and legible. She once wrote a poem of ten verses in as many
minutes—her thoughts flowing with the rapidity of lightning.
In cutting velvet leaves for pincushions she held the scissors
by the knuckles of thumb and forefinger of her left hand, and
bringing the velvet with thumb and finger of her right hand,
she cut the leaves as shapely and without ravel as though
they had been cut with a punch. These leaves do not differ
in size or form more than leaves growing on tree or shrub.
In the early part of her sickness she cut more than 2,000 such
leaves. In April, 1875, she worked up twenty-five ounces
of worsteds ; to December, 1875, she had written 6,500
notes and letters. She has kept an account of all the
expenses of the family during her sickness. She keeps a
daily journal, except when in trances of longer duration
than twenty-four hours. In passing into the new condition,
three years ago, of which I have spoken, she forgot everything
that had occurred in the previous nine years. When she was
able to speak, she inquired about matters that occurred at
the beginning of her illness—the nine intervening years
were a perfect blank to her.”
J. Simmons.
Ypsilanti, Michigan, U.S.A., November 24th, 1878.
In Torquay about six private mediums are in course of develop¬
ment ; physical, trance, and clairvoyant manifestations are obtained
by them.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Home and foreign correspondence on the Williams-Rita case still flows in,
but throws no new light on a subject which has been already well
ventilated.
Readers in the United Kingdom who receive this journal by post are
requested to remit their subscriptions for 1879. The charge for The
Spiritualist for a year is 10s. 10d., post free ; it is posted from London
every Thursday evening or Friday morning early. The charge for a year
to foreign countries within the Postal Union is 13s.
The Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.A.), or The Religio-Philosophical Journal
(Chicago), can be supplied from The Spintualist branch office in Blooms¬
bury, at 15s. post free for the year 1879.
J.B.P., West Pittsfield, U.S.A.—Thank you for the pamphlet, We have no
space to spare for such extraneous matters.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand)
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams)
HEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM,
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Dec. 13, 1878.
THE SPIKITUALIST
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
■RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reahty of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Bussell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OP THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them: they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DA.YIS,
T/te “ Poughkeepsie Seer,"
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia •
The Teacher. „ IL „
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . .
The Thinker. ,, V. „ . • •
Magic Staff An Autobiography ol A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . i
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the Pcop.e
Children's Progressive Lyceum Manual . •
Death and the After-Life .
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man: or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology , . •
Morning Lectures .....
s. d,
. 15 o
. 7 6
. 7 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
,. 5 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Tub Spieitdalist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . is 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my .Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen , 7 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Cailaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge. D.D  . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
pretod by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer S 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes: or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale .  10 6
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
800 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
now to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and suoh a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age."
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
88, Great Russell Street, London, W.C,
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Hontgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of & priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are coached in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistio throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D.- Home, and Ferdinand Jenokeu—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King. •
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI. The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and othev able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin's discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage’paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON), ’ ON
PSYCHO GRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight,—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. K. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L.O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen aad Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—^Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence f
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens
leigh Wedgwood, J-Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 6s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post tree. ,
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or.send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of ihe
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship ol Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medimn-
ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
YH.—An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. S lollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VI LI.—The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treheme) and Mrs. —.
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals.
ByEmile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “H.A,
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burne.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.”
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ H.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXI11.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV. — The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“M.A. Oa.on.”
XXXV The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington (Ernies fallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natiiral Philosophy,
Berne; translated from PsychicStudies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis¬
lingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W.H. Harrisdii.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Calder.
XU.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII Epigrams. By Gerald Massay.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. By Lisette MakdougallGregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLY.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
IV
THE SPIEITTJALIST,
Deo. 13, 1878,
Now Ready. Price 2s. 6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
PUBLISHED QUABTERLY.
OCTOBER.
CONTENTS:—
I—Why must I do what is right ? By St. George Stock.
II.—Astrology, Ancient and Modern.
III.—Recent Investigations in Psychology. By T. P. Barkas.
TV.—Immaterialism at Brussels. By J. 0. Earle.
V.—Inspiration and Symbolism. By Mrs. De Morgan.
VI.—James Hinton’s Philosophy.
VII.—Pilgrimages] in Prance. No. III.—Pontigny and the
Shrine of Saint Edmund. By Rev. H. N. Grimley.
VIII.—Bohme’s Seven Days of Creation—A Study. By A. A.
Watts.
IX.—Materialistic Mysticism.
Hutton on Scott’s Supernatural ism—The Education of the
Feelings—Around the World with Dr. Peebles—Evolution.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF spirit¬
ualism UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OP SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. P. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
op the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office. 
KEYUE 8PIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fondS par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1 st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the SociitA
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie. 
PSYCHISCHE STUDIED. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty, periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser of the radiometer, and discoverer of_ the
new metal] thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great
number of intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
are not', they are so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more personsi possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every household, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ’’ Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two sAances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
' Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings,
1, The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride.’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirhet-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wohhlejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity.. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobolejaw BalladsNo one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Oaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Oraphic.
“ Those who Can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Inuwimngs. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russefi-street). Both the.verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
hut one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to he photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all Ill-natured."
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); A.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our-readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour ana satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome hook...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed. ’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in Itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [A./?. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,’’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.’’
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gresory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Oopies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, prlce-8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in YariousWays—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—^Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will: and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Bash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovisi on—Lntro vision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—^Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes, in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovislon
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s-Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will hy the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Oahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S ii ritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerlsm—Progress of i'ftrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—Ills Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcrait, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—^Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcrait—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Oases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmeriim in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge; & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. .Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, Londc n,E.O.
