llEGISTEHiUJ AS A HEVTSPAPER.
SK® of ^^YdSo^oG^idS^ gCisiK^s<-
 t'jt.e toit| in (§xmt  
No. 390. (Vol. XVI.—No. 7.) LONDON : FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1880, Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
JAMES IALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything' of the "best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to -whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LI&HTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be bad on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THE0S0PHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, G IB, G A U M BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of * The Theosophist,’ ” at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS EOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a. very firm believer in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here thrown togethel
the results of his own experiences, at the request of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author has treated the subject
exactly in the way in which it is desirable that matters on which the public require information should be treated; and he tells concisely, and
yet fully, many of the secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar
to the progress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and he
holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also mesmerise far too
many persons. As to the beneficial results of mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a cure for epilepsy, headache,
toothache, or other ailment; and his final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it w hat you like, hut persistently employ it for the benefit of the
sick and suffering.’ Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume, he may at any rate be credited with having written
an interesting work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch. Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 13, 1880.
Just arrived from America. A NHW BOOK by
EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.,
THE SPIRIT WORLD:
Its Inhabitants, Nature, and Philosophy.
Price 6s. 6d., post free. Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 33, Museum-street, London.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAYEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trtjbner and Co., London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, LONDON, W.C.
INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES
By Mr. THOMAS "WALKER, late of Melbourne.
This Association has arranged with Mr. Walker that he should deliver a Series of Lectures
at the rooms of the British National Association of Spiritualists on the following dates, viz.:—
Monday, February 9th, Friday 13th, Friday 20th, Monday 23rd, Friday 27th, and also, if prac¬
ticable, on three other evenings—the dates to be duly announced.
A limited number of Reserved Seats will be sot apart for subscribers. Tickets for the
Course, 5s. Admission Free.
A New Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Yery Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALT BY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOYER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
Crown 8vo, pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its bearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science, and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . .. His eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics; and we have rarely
had a more complete regime of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Pall Mall
Gazette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
82 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 3d.
RATIONALE OF SPIRITUALISM.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. Cd., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o clock for reception of-
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE
LONDON
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock. 
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND
 LONDON. 
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER.
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes,all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (corner of Moscow and
Hereford-road), Bayswater, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
"~mr7“w.eglinton, —
32, FOP3TONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT,
LONDON, S.W.
Notice of removal to 31,
NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o'clock daily;
and eight to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173
Rue St. Honors, Paris.
RJL WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.tn
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
Quebec Hall, 25, Great Quebec Street.
On Monday, February 16th, a Vocal and Elocution¬
ary Entertainment will be given, when Miss Anne
Wait will read “ The Model Sermon.” Mr. Ivor
MacDonnell, the celebrated humourist, will recite and
sing. Miss Isabel Ward, author of Essay on Cruelty to
Animals, will recite and sing in duet. A number of
other Friends will assist in songs, duets, <fcc. The
proceeds will be given for the support of the Associa¬
tion. 3. M. DALE, Hon. See.
Doors open at 7.30; to Commence at 8. Admission
6d. and Is. The latter seats nearly all bespoken.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, EarTs-court, S.W. 
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
mHE PROBABLESA EFFECTS OF
X SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second
Gold Medals oe the British National
Association op Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.  
MIND AND MATTER.—a Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penna,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J. M.
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample copies free.
ejA»
$ D;f ixf th$ attd. £th;i$$ af Sjti^itttaUsw*
No. 390,—VOiLUJVlE gIXTEE'N ; NUMBER ^EYEN,
LOISTDOlSr, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13th, 1880.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1889.
Published Weekly. Pbice Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HABBISON.
British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia, Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay, Countess
WUrmbrand (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
O. 0. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.B.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Miss Florence Marryat.
Mad ame Isabel de Steiger.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of the
Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H.M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., O.E., F.B.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
B. Friese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau.
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. 0. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Scl., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel.E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A. (Cantab.)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.B.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Lettere to Miss Mgrtineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Boyal,Paris; 2,Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne ; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiajat
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Bue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaad,
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Eussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application
rriHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of difterent planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street,London, W.O.
MARGARET LONSDALE’S BIOGRAPHY OF
SISTER DORA.
BY HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD, J.P.
A MOST interesting biography has just been pub¬
lished of “ Sister Dora/’ the devoted nurse, and
conductress of a cottage hospital at Walsall, who
spent her whole being in ministering to the ailments
of all who needed her assistance, and earned the
veneration of rich and poor throughout the district.
One poor man v/ho had been under her hands, in
giving his account to Miss Lonsdale, her biographer,
never mentioned Sister Dora’s name without rising
and reverently touching his forelock. It may, as
Miss Lonsdale is inclined to suppose, have been
owing to the veneration in which she was held that
rumours arose of visions having been seen by Sister
Dora, and supernatural communications having been
made to her. As her biographer never heard any of
these stories from her own lips, nor obtained any
solid evidence of them from the mouths of others, she
gives us no particulars of the marvels which she
has heard. She is far, however, from expressing
absolute incredulity, saying only
“ Although the power to work miracles, once given
to faithful men, seems to have been lost—perhaps
because no one faithful enough to wield it is ever
found—there are still more things in heaven and
earth than are dreamt of in our philosophy; and I
dare not use the word ' impossible ’ with regard to
the visions which some people suppose Sister Dora
to have seen, and the supernatural communications
which they affirm to have been made to her. But
I incline rather to the belief that such ideas about
her had a very simple and natural origin in the
veneration in which her great powers were justly
held by the ignorant and superstitious, as well as by
the credulously educated, who easily persuaded them¬
selves that what she achieved was due rather to
supernatural agency than to a singular combination
of genius and self-devotion.”
With so cautious a biographer we may be sure
that one or two facts of an abnormal nature which
are found in the narrative were told her by Sister
Dora herself. The first of these is an instance of
clairaudience which occurred in connection with her
while she was yet a girl:—
“ While she was travelling abroad a schoolboy in
the village, who was especially attached to her, fell ill
of rheumatic fever. The boy’s one longing was to
see ‘ Miss Dora ’ again ; and as he grew worse and
worse, and still she did not come home, he constantly
prayed that he might live to see her. On the day on
which she was expected he sat up on his pillows,
intently listening, and at last, long before any one
else could hear the sound of wheels, he exclaimed,
‘ There she is ; there is Miss Dora! ’ and sank back.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 13, 1880.
She went to him at once, and stayed with him, nurs¬
ing him till he was dead ” (p. 7).
“ During one of her visits to her brother, she had
a dream, in which her mother appeared to her,
drawing back the curtains of the bed, and calling,
‘ Dora, Dora, Dora ! ’ The dream was so vivid, and
the impression which it left was so strong, that the
next morning she told her old servant about it,
but forbore to tell her brother, for fear he should say
as usual,£ Oh, it is only one of your silly north-country
superstitions/ No letter came that day from Haux-
well (her home). This increased Dora’s anxiety, and
when the same dream returned the next night, her
mother calling her as before, and looking very worn
and ill, Dora could no longer refrain from telling her
brother that she was certain their mother was in
danger and wanted her. He tried in vain to laugh
her out of her intention of sending for letters to the
neighbouring town ;• nothing else would satisfy her,
and a letter which had been delayed three days was
found, containing the news of Mrs. Pattison’s dangerous
illness. Dora went at onfce, and found her mother
laid on her death-bed. She died soon afterwards ”
(p. 15).
“ The conviction grew upon her that presentiments
were sent to her as direct warnings from God; and is
it not possible that those who call this conviction
superstitious may be condemning a child-like faith,
the simplicity of which they themselves are unable to
appreciate ? One night Sister Dora woke up
suddenly, feeling convinced that something was
wrong in the wards. A serious amputation had
taken place in the afternoon, but she had already
visited the patient in the course of the night, accord¬
ing to her custom in anxious cases, and had found
him going on well. But now she could not sleep
again ; something seemed urging her to get up, and,
as usual, she obeyed the warning voice within her.
She went straight to the patient, and found that
one of the larger arteries had broken away from its
ligatures, and that he was slowly but surely bleeding
to death. She secured the artery in time to save the
man’s life. ”
Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London.
THE “SHEFFIELD DAILY TELEGRAPHON
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
The Sheffield Daily Telegraph of February 8th
contains the following review of the new book,
Spirits before our Eyes:—
Mr. Harrison has conferred a real boon on those
who take an interest in the question of apparitions
by collecting in one volume a number of fairly well
authenticated stories of mysterious appearances of
departed spirits and of death-bed apparitions. We
ourselves, though we do not see our way to give in
our adherence to the creed of the Spiritualists, have
often felt that a collection of instances fairly well
authenticated would be extremely valuable, and aid
the public in forming an opinion as to the credibility
or incredibility of what are now termed spiritual
phenomena. Mr. Harrison desires to make his col¬
lection of instances complete and exhaustive, and
iK j therefore requests all persons who have had ex-
]|1 perience of apparitions to forward full particulars of
I (| the occurrence, and he desires these records to be
ijj written or signed by one or more of the witnesses,
| (| and that full names and addresses should be given ;
])] for the object the author has in view is by proving
j(j the reality of spiritual apparitions to establish the
II i immortality of the soul “ by evidence as strong as
|( | any on which men are condemned to death by court's
m of law.” Apropos of courts of law, Mr. Harrison
jlj quotes the story of Old Booty’s Ghost, which was
m proved to the satisfaction of the Court of King’s
HI Bench in the year 1687. A Mrs. Booty sued Capt.
j j Barnaby to recover £1,000 as damages for his asser-
I I tion that he had seen her late husband driven into
| hell.
j) Friday, 15£A May.—We bad the observation of Mr. Booty
j (j this day. Captain Barnaby, Captain Bristow, Captain Brown, I,
Hi and Mr. Ball, merchant, went on shore in Captain Barnaby’s
! j I boat, to shoot rabbits upon Stromboli; and when we had done
j) we called all our men together by us, and about half an hour
| <! and fourteen minutes after three m the afternoon, to our great
|(| surprise, we all of us saw two men come running towards us
I (r with such swiftness that no living men could run half so fast as
j;j they did run; when all of us heard Captain Barnaby say, “ Lord;
|)j bless me, the foremost is 0!d Booty, my next-door neighbour;”
j < j but he said he did not know the other that run behind. He was
i \ j in black clothes, and the foremost in grey. Then Captain Bar-
i > | naby desired all of us to take an account of the time and pen it
1) | down in our pocket-books, and when we got on board we wrote
I < | it in our journals, for we saw them into the flames of fire, and
I (j there was a great noise, which greatly affrighted us all, for we
j j i none of us ever saw or heard the like before. Captain Barnaby
j) j said he was certain it was Old Booty which he saw running
j j j over Stromboli and into the flames of hell.
Hi Then, coming home to England, and lying at Gravesend,
| > | Captain Barnaby’s wife came on board the sixth day of October,
|) | 1687, at which time Captain Barnaby and Captain Brown sent
jn for Captain Bristow and Mr. Ball, merchant, to congratulate
i (| with them, and, after some discourse, Captain Barnaby’s wife
j (] started up and said, “ My dear, I will tell you some news : Old
j j Booty is dead.” He directly made answer, “We all of us saw
|) | him run into hell!”
i(| Afterwards Captain Barnaby’s wife told a gentleman of his
Hi acquaintance in London what her husband had said, and he went
!>| and acquainted Mrs. Booty of the whole affair ; upon that Mrs.
I) I Booty arrested Captain Barnaby in a thousand pounds’ action,
m for what he had said of her husband. Captain Barnaby gave bail
| | to it, and it came to a trial in the Court of King’s Bench, and
J > | they had Mr. Booty’s wearing apparel brought into court, and
I) ] the sexton of the parish, and the people that were with him when
Hi he died, and they swore to the time he died, and when he died.
Hi and we swore to our journals, and it came to the same time
|) | within two minutes ; ten of our men swore to the buttons on Ins
I) i coat, and that they were covered with the same sort of cloth his
I /1 coat was made, and so it proved.
i(( The jury asked Mr. Spinks (whose handwriting in the journal
I ( that happened to be read appeared) if he knew Mr. Booty ? He
j>i answered, “ I never saw him till he ran by me on the Burning
j) j Mountains.” Then the judge said, “ Lord, have mercy upon me,
K j and grant I may never see what you have seen; one, two, or
i( | three may be mistaken, but thirty never can be mistaken.” So
j j | the widow lost her cause.
All lovers of the mysterious must be familiar with
|)| stories of the death of persons at a distance being
i(| made known to their friends at home by the appa-
| | rition of the dying or dead person just at the hour of
|)| death, and we recently quoted in our columns the
In well-known story of the appearance of such an appa-
rition to the late Lord Brougham. Of such stories
in Mr. Harrison has collected a number in the pages of
m the work before us, but in chapter eight there are
|( instances of spiritual phenomena more marvellous
1)1 than any we have ever before met with in print; for
Feb. 13, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
75
not content with accounts of apparitions of dead
persons, who may be regarded as belonging to the
world of spirits, Mr. Harrison gives us well-authenti¬
cated accounts of the appearance at distant places of
spirits of the living, and are told how persons en¬
dowed with this peculiar gift of parting from their
bodies for a time, appear to friends many hundred miles
distant and return to their usual bodily habitation,
and all in the course of an hour or two. If there be
any truth in these stories the being in two places at
once can no longer be regarded as the height of im¬
possibility. We quote some of the table of contents
of this wonderful chapter in order that our
readers may see we do not exaggerate con¬
cerning the wonderful character of the “ well-
authenticated stories” which Mr. Harrison has
collected. Here are a few of them—“ Appa¬
ritions of living mortals,” “The spirit leaving the
body during sleep and trance,” “ The spirits of living
mortals seen at distant places,” “Verification of
spiritual travels at both ends of the line,” “The
materialised spirit of a living Methodist minister
seen, recognised, touched, and heard by two
witnesses.” This story, which is too long to quote, is
in substance as follows:—A certain Mr. Benning,
living in New York, had engaged to lecture on the
following Sunday at Troy—not Homer'* and Glad¬
stone’s Troy, but Troy, U.S.—but on Saturday being
attacked by a very severe sore throat, it became
impossible for him to keep his engagement. This
breach of faith annoyed the good man exceedingly,
for though he at once wrote off to inform them of his
illness, he felt very doubtful of the arrival of the
letter in time to prevent the crowd assembling to
hear him. Perplexed and vexed, he allowed his
thoughts to become concentrated on a gathering of
Spiritualist friends at which he was to have been
present that evening at Troy. He felt rather pre¬
occupied, and more than usually stupid, throughout
the evening—a condition not uncommon to persons
suffering from bad colds and sore throats. But,
strange to say, he actually appeared among
his friends at Troy, knocked at the door,
walked up the stairs, entered the room, mut¬
tered, in a husky voice, something about not being
able to lecture next day, and vanished — vanished
in spite of the fact that the front door was
locked and the key in the doorkeeper’s pocket.
In disappearing he knocked down two of the
gentlemen who endeavoured to prevent his de¬
parture. The friends were astonished at this rude
conduct of the usually mild minister, but when, next
day, the letter arrived announcing that he was at
home ill, they very naturally felt that they had seen
something uncanny. We have no space for further
quotation, but commend all our readers who take an
interest in this subject to buy Mr. Harrison’s book
and read for themselves, and we can assure them
that, if they delight in strange narratives of marvel¬
lous mysteries which make the flesh creep, they will
find in the work before us far better material than
the ghost stories which the Christmas annuals pro¬
vide, for every one of Mr. Harrison’s narratives has
the additional virtue of being declared to be strictly
true, and the names and addresses of the wit¬
nesses ..are attached in evidence thereof. In
(| criticising such a work we are in a dilemma*
Are we to treat the whole thing as a joke, as a hoax,
<i a sort of modern Baron Munchausen, or are we
) | to regard the matter seriously and discuss the future
\ | possibilities which these stories of the deeds of spirits
)! open up, and, with the author, enter into a discussion
s of the question as to whether communication by
)j spirit media will in the future supersede telegraphic
si communication? Are we to laugh and ridicule, or
are we, with the author, to believe and wonder? Are
( we to look on these stories as proofs of human gulli-
) bility and credulity, or to regard them as evidence of
( the reality of the unseen world ?
Eminent scientific men, like Mr. Crookes and Lord
(\ Rayleigh, the newly-appointed professor of physics
) j at the University of Cambridge, are believers in the
\j reality of these phenomena which Mr. Harrison
^ | narrates in the work before us. Others equally com-
1! petent and the greater number of people declare
| they are no better than old wives’ fables. We will
| not take upon ourselves to pronounce a judgment;
| but will close our review of this interesting collection
I of spiritual phenomena with the old warning to
| those who refuse to go beyond the limits of their own
| experience, that there may be things undreamt of in
) | their philosophy.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diafne*
trically opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communica¬
tions cannot be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given,
to letters which are not anonymous.]
DR. MONCK.
I Sir,—The committee formed to promote a testimonial for Dr.
Monck have determined, at the urgent request of many friends
who are collecting sums in the provinces and abroad, to keep the
I list of subscriptions open a short time longer.
Should his health return, and if he can succeed in securing a
| livelihood by means of spiritually-suggested inventions already
! patented under the advice of eminent manufacturers, it is his inten¬
tion to devote himself as an unpaid medium to the investigation
of spiritual phenomena in the light, from which results of the
I highest value may be expected.
Contributions to this fund, the committee think, will promote
the cause of science, and place at the service of Spiritualism the
| kind of mediumship now most wanted.
All remittances should be sent to Morell Theobald.
j 62, Granville-park, Blackheath.
£ S. d.
Subscriptions already acknowledged 155 8 0
i ( I Received sinced February 1st—
L. E. G  6 0 0
A Friend, per W. T. Rositer   2 0 0
Per Mrs. Woodforde’s seance   2 0 0
Dr. Curtis, Rome    1 0 0
iff Mrs. Lenox, Nice      1 1 0
Y. Bird, Devonport   010 0
j(i Mrs. L. Nosworthy, Liverpool ... ... 0 10 0
A. M., Hungary    ••• ... 0 5 0
!)i G. Bryan, Budleigh Salterton ••• ... 0 5 0
)j “Chip.”  0 2 0
i(i H. A. Beckett ...     0 2 0
\ | Next Saturday evening, at eight o’clock, Mr. B. Howard will
) j read a paper on Spiritualism, before the Holborn Literary Society,
) j 36, Great Queen-street, London.
(| The Talmund abounds with numerous spiritual legends. One
) | Rabbi says, “ If you want to see spirits, sprinkle your beds de
> | with fine ashes, and if in the morning you see marks like coiks*
< ^ claws, it is a sign spirits have been there,”
76
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 13, 1880.
A VOICE FROM OUTSIDE THE FOLD.
BY FRANK PODMORE.
I HAVE to acknowledge a triple debt of gratitude.
Mr. F. F. Cook, of Chicago, has done me the kind¬
ness to write a pamphlet called the Rationale of
Spiritualism* An anonymous friend has done me
the kindness to send me this pamphlet. And Mr.
Stainton Moses, by means of his paper read before
the.British National Association of Spiritualists on
the 26th January, has fulfilled the benefit by in¬
ducing me to read the pamphlet. And I know not
how I can make better acknowledgment for all these
unmerited favours than by doing what in me lies to
persuade others to read an essay from which I have
myself derived so much profit.
Mr.. Cook takes up a position almost unique
amongst Spiritualists. He recognises to the full all
the unpromising appearances that the movement
presents to outsiders. He does not attempt to deny
that “ its potency lies as yet chiefly with a class un¬
trammelled by precise definitions or exact thought.”
In effect, he asserts roundly that Spiritualism is dis¬
reputable, and Spiritualists a crew of crotchety,
illogical ragamuffins.*f* But in the same breath he
hastens to add that he would not for the world have
things otherwise. In the fact that the movement is
a byword, and its adherents outcasts from society,
lies its salvation ; for he urges with considerable force
and ingenuity that the solution of the whole matter
is to be found in the fact that the progress of Spirit¬
ualism is under the guidance of spirits, who see
“with larger, other eyes than ours;” and it is from
their standpoint only that it must be judged. They
are able to discern that if the new truth were pre¬
sented to the world in all its nakedness, that world
would be blinded with excess of light. All tra¬
ditional fabrics would crash into ruins before there
were yet built those which should replace them,
and the end would be chaos, come again. If the new
is to be grafted on to what was before, and all that is
worthy to live in the later is to be preserved, the
regeneration must be slow. Old beliefs have to be
remodelled and enlarged, old forms of thought recon¬
structed, to admit the newer wisdom; and if you
hasten too much while you destroy the one, you will
fail to set up the other. The perception of a new
truth requires the growth of a new sense; and that
growth can only come with length of days. In Mr.
Cook’s words: “ Had this truth come first to the
savants as a discovery, and subject to no conditions
except such as are commonly recognised with regard
to scientific experiments, directly it would have per¬
meated the entire social economy, producing untold
misery. . . . There are millions in whose minds the
unwelcome truth, thus ruthlessly forced, would have
called into action all the baser passions in defence of
their cherished dogmas. What cry more pathetic than
that of the old heathen, who, bereft of bis idol by the
missionaries of a strange religion, wailed out piteously,
‘ You have robbed me of my God ’ ? ”
It is not without set purpose, then, and under the
guidance of a higher power, that Spiritualism is made
to present such an unattractive front to the outer
» The Rationale of Spiritualism Is the title of a paper read before the Chicago
Philosophical Society, by Mr. Frederick F. Cook.
f Mr. Oook must be speaking of Spiritualism in America, without knowing
anything about Spiritualism in England.—Ed.
It} .....
m world; that it is disgraced by repeated frauds; that
! | it is rendered ludicrous by the many-sided extrava-
Kl gance of its supporters; that its converts are so
| | seldom from among the Scribes and Pharisees. All
ju these things are the tempering of the wind; the
\\\ merciful haze through which we see the sun. They
i | are expressly initiated by the spirit directors, whose
|) | only care at present is, not to advance, but to retard.
|(! Mr. Cook well compares the uncouth infancy of
j | Spiritualism to that of Christianity with its ascetic
j(j excesses, its frenzied enthusiasm, its often unbridled
j)j license, and its “all things in common.” To this
| \ j last stage—to socialism—he predicts that Spiritualism
!); also will shortly come. It is probable that the
js| illustrations he adduces are truer of American than of
English Spiritualism; but the theory by which he
! I accounts for them is true of both, or of neither. To
\}\ me, who occupy a most uncomfortable position on
Kj the fence, it appears a most entirely rational and
m plausible explanation of many things that most
| \ | assuredly need explaining; and it is a perfectly
legitimate extension of the spiritualistic theory. If
Is! we are to have spirits at all, what is to hinder them
i)! from being as big as we please.
But whilst I cordially agree with Mr. Cook’s com-
i)| parison of the nineteenth century—the first of the
lil advent of Spiritualism—with that of the advent of
( Christianity, when the “weak things of the world are
| >1 chosen to confound the mighty, and the things that
j are not to bring to nought the things that are; ”
I>; and whilst I admire the strong simplicity of his
In theory, and his ingenious defence of it, I am yet
Hi constrained to ask one question, How does Mr.
m Cook obtain his knowledge on these dark matters ?
For he puts it forward not as hypothesis, but as
h| assured knowledge. We can imagine throughout
| (! that we hear him speaking of “ I and the spirit-guides
! (| of the movement.” In this he but resembles too closely
H| teleologists in general. He speaks with authority,
|(j and that not the authority of fact. He may be
I; | right; but we are not yet ready to assist at the
|(| resurrection of the doctrine of Final Causes: we
I) | cannot yet forget that the Bridgewater Treatises
|| have been superseded by the Origin of Species. We
| may think it probable that there is a higher truth,
I in whose broad light the theory of Evolution shall be
shown to be one with the argument of Design, by
whose atonement Danvin shall be reconciled with
i Paley, the seeming victor with the vanquished.
Jj But Mr. Cook would, meanwhile, make his
Hi position infinitely stronger, if he would but scan
( with the same clear vision the obverse of the
i)j shield. These things may be under the guidance
K of angels, but they are also, if we may judge
Hj from all analogy, the product of natural forces,
j (; It is not enough for Mr. Cook to maintain that this
Hi frequent trickery, these spirit-and-watery trance
HI addreases, and all these aimless freaks of vagabond
(furniture, are preordained of deliberate forethought.
It is not enough for him even to show that they
admirably subserve the purpose for which they are so
ordained. The same has been shown long ago of
I every social institution, and of every exquisite ad-
| justment—the seeming adaptation of means to end
| —the wide realm of nature—before the days of
l Herbert Spencer and the Synthetic Philosophy. If
77
Feb. 13, 1880. THE S PI It I
he would have us, who are without the fold, to <
believe, he must prove that these things are also the j)j
natural and inevitable accompaniments of spirit |(!
communion; he must trace the conditions to their j > j
source, and affiliate them to what we already know of m
the laws of phenomena. Of course it is open to |)j
Mr. Cook to retort that he does not wish us to
believe, that we are not yet of the chosen. But the
very existence of this pamphlet is sufficient to prove
that he is of the true missionary spirit, of which all
reformers are made.
And yet, when all is said, be it confessed that I j)|
closed the book with the words on my lips, “ Almost (i
thou persuadest me to be a Spiritualist.”
28th January, 1880. j (j
THE POLICE BAFFLED BY SPIRITUAL
PHENOMENA.
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, who in his travels round j 11
the world has reached New Orleans, sends us the |)j
following account, from the St. Louis Globe-Demo- >
crat, of some disturbances taking place in a house in m
Chicago, on the 9 th of January, 1880:—
Chicago, Jan. 9.—“The place is haunted! The i)j
place is haunted!” shout a chorus of shrieking chil> n|
dren around a brown frame two-story cottage, No. m
176, Bui ton-street, in this city, all the afternoon.
The place in question has been an object of deep
curiosity to a gazing and constantly increasing jjj
crowd, and the reports that have been made regarding (j
the very serious sounds heard therein have attracted |)!
sufficient attention to prompt a careful investigation.
“Sperrits” is the prevailing opinion as to the cause jjj
of the internal disturbances, combated by eager ad- j (j
herents of the theory that the personage at the bottom j j j
of the difficulty is the devil Two police officers j<j
were called in about one o’clock this morning, jjj
Moans and shrieks, followed by rappings, had been j < I
heard in different parts of the house. The officers
ransacked the premises, hearing the noises, now in |(j
one room and then in another, and left thoroughly j ji
discouraged by their unavailing search. Your cor- jjj
respondent called this afternoon. The noises had jjj
been heard at intervals all through the day. In a jjj
chamber on the first floor a young woman was seen, j j j
apparently asleep, or in a trance, upon a bed. A jjj
number of ladies were gathered in the room. Your j/j
correspondent had been there only a few minutes
when raps were distinctly heard, now upon the door,
now at the head of the bed, on the ceiling, and the j j
wall.
“ It is on her,” said one of the ladies.
The pronoun referred to the young woman upon the
bed. Her body and limbs straightened out with a
convulsive movement, she gave a gasp as if taking j
in a long breath with great difficulty, and a white j
foam appeared at her rosy mouth.
“ Now she will speak,” said one.
“ Is that you, aunt Ellen ? ” asked the female on jjj
the bed. (Three raps.)
“ That means yes, said an old lady.
“ Have you come for me ? ” (Yes!)
“Will it be a year, a month, or a week?” No |j!
answer.
TUALIST.
“ A year ? ” (Three raps.)
Further conversation was carried on, but this was
regarded as particularly significant, because they said
it was a warning of death.
Mrs. Cardenifi, the lady of the house, said that
they first heard the raps about eight o’clock last
evening.
Pretty soon the young lady in question, Miss
Catherine Gale, entered the room, and everywhere
she went the knocking seemed to take place. When
she went to raise the baby from the cradle the tap¬
pings were quite gentle, but as she moved about the
room they grew louder.
Shortly afterwards the family sent to the gospel
meeting, at 48, Randolph-street, and requested some¬
body to come to the house and pray. A divine,
whose name is not known, and a Miss Mansfield
answered the invitation, and visited the house. The
more they prayed the louder the rappings continued,
and whenever Miss Gale heard them she was taken
with a fainting fit that lasted some moments. She
insisted upon sending for the priest, and a neighbour
called upon one living near St. Patrick’s Church.
After hearing the case he refused to go, but sent
word that it was a warning, and the devil was after
them.
Among other questions put to the spirit, aunt
Ellen, Mrs. Cardenill asked after her brother, James
Brown, who sailed on the Lady Elgin twenty years
ago, and who was never heard of afterwards. The
spirit replied that he was dead, having been drowned
nearly twenty years ago, when the noble ship went
down with all on board. Every effort has been made
on the part of the police, one or two newspaper
reporters, and your correspondent, to discover the
cause of the rappings, but in vain. The theory has
been advanced that a loosened lath, or a piece of
wire, or some such disarrangement of the material
of the walls or flooring, vibrating through the
action of the wind, is the cause of the rappings, but
nothing has been found to establish the correctness
of this or any other theory. The fact that the
rappings are sometimes heard on the wall, then on
the door, then at the foot of the bed, on the ceiling,
on the windows, and everywhere throughout the
house imaginable, makes it all the more strange.
The woman of the house is a practical lady of good
sense, and not at all given to Spiritualism. She
stoutly maintains that some natural cause will be
discovered for the strange noises, and she has no
belief in the supernatural. It is different from the
usual run of haunted houses in that there are no
ghosts, or spooks, or personal manifestations of any
kind.
No chains are rattled over the floors or on the
stairs, and, in short, the goblin, or whatever it is,
does not make its presence felt in the orthodox
fashion. The police are satisfied that the house is
haunted, and they are not at all anxious to pursue
the investigp.tion.
The Victorian Association of Spiritualists (Melbourne) con*
suits its members about disputed points, leaving the decisions
entirely in their hands; consequently it called no less than three
special general meetings in 1879. Its income is more than £800
a year.
78
THE SPIRITUALIST. Feb. 13, 1880.
ALLEGED APPARITIONS IN COUNTY MAYO.
The Dublin Nation newspaper having sent a
reporter to Knock, county of Mayo, where appa¬
ritions of the Virgin Mary are said to have appeared,
and where pilgrims are now in large numbers con¬
gregating, gives an account of his inquiry and
its results. The witness on whose testimony he
relies said:—
“ He and the other persons who were with him
saw a large space of soft white light on the gable of
the Knock Chapel, the rest of the gable being quite
dark at the time. In the midst of this light, which
was not exactly in the centre, but towards the left-
hand side of the gable as he stood facing it, he saw
three figures : to his left, in a bending attitude, with
hands clasped, was a figure of St. Joseph; in the
middle a figure of the Virgin, her eyes raised, her
hands raised to about the level of her shoulders, and
their palms turned outwards to his (the witness’s)
right, a figure of a bishop, which the people said was
St. John, holding in his left hand an open book,
which he appeared to be reading, his right hand
elevated, the thumb placed on the third and fourth
fingers, the first and second standing erect. Farther
on to his (the witness’s) right appeared an altar with
a lamb on it as represented in Catholic pictures, and
a cross standing on the altar. All about the group
were twinkling or flashing lights, like stars; they
were not steady; they seemed as if they used to
come nearer and then retire again, or to go in and
out through the gable.”
The Nation supplies a woodcut of the chapel
to show where the vision became apparent, and
adds:—
“At present the wall, as high as the hand can
reach, is denuded of its coating of cement, and even
the mortar from between the stones has been scraped
out by visitors to the scene who wish to carry
away with them some relics of that portion of the
building. A number of sharp stones which had
been used by the people in hammering off the mortar
and cement were lying about the ground at the time
of our visit. Against that part of the wall on which
the vision of the Virgin was seen a little wooden
tablet has been set up, and a small shelf, on which
are placed two candles in candlesticks and two small
statuettes; under these is a box with a slit for
offerings, and around it a rough wooden paling,
within which are placed the crutches and sticks of
persons who have there been cured of their ailments.
A number of sticks and one pair of crutches were
within this enclosure at the time of our visit. On the
tablet which I have just mentioned the following
inscription is painted:—‘ It is important that any
miraculous cures wrought here should be made known
to the parish priest.’ When I visited the place ten
or twelve, including some well-dressed women, were
outside praying before the scene of the apparition ;
two or three, bareheaded in the cold winter wind,
were walking round the church, praying as they
went, some having told them that three ‘ rounds ’ of
this sort ought to be performed ; and one poor
cripple performing those penitential circuits toiled
his way painfully along on hands and knees.”
Cannot one of the Irish readers of The Spiritualist
investigate this case ?
CURIOUS MESMERIC PHENOMENA.
(From our Nova Scotian Correspondent.)
The thoughtful and philosophical tone of your
j editorial articles, and the lofty character of the
(| writings of your correspondents, not only in intelli-
j gence, but also their evident desire to attain the
( truth, their painstaking search after it, notwith-
| standing all obstacles and discouragements, and the
(j consequent knowledge which they have achieved
) | concerning the life beyond and the mysteries of the
(j human mind; these considerations move me to
)| inquire whether you, sir, or any of your correspon-
) | dents or subscribers, have ever had a similar experi-
)! ence to the one which I will now proceed to detail.
\ i If so, or if not, what is the correct explanation of my
)! experience ?
I have practised mesmerism occasionally since
11 about my nineteenth year, and during the last few
months to a greater extent than ever before, not
j professionally, but once in a while, in private houses,
generally when urged to do so by friends and ac-
j quaintances.
On Saturday evening, the 17th January, 1880, I
called at the house of one of the oldest and best-
known citizens of this town. There were present in
(I the parlour two of his daughters and a young
> | brother, a young lady, a visitor whom I will deno-
(| minate Miss “ A.,” a young married lady, a temporary
> I visitor like myself, a young gentleman who is
(| attending the Academy connected with the King’s
) j College in this place, and another boy, who, when I
|j| entered the apartment, was playing cards with the
) | young brother. A few minutes after my entrance,
11 another young gentleman, the husband of the married
) j lady above mentioned, came into the room—eight
<| persons in all,, exclusive of myself. I had a few
>i evenings before, at her request, and that of other
} j persons in the room, mesmerised the eldest daughter.
> j She seemed so dull and heavy, and so inclined to fall
,i asleep, that I brought her out of the state in a few
1 minutes. This evening I was requested to take
!| away a headache, which was troubling her. I rather
11 declined at first, saying that I could not go near her
; I without mesmerising her, but presently I made a few
I passes, and she said her headache was better. The
11 brother, whom I shall call “ M.,” urged me to mes¬
merise him, and after a little hesitation I consented.
He passed readily under control, but seemed heavy,
and did not seem to know where he was. He could
1| not get off his chair, or get his two forefingers apart,
or take two cards apart when I told him he could
| not. I had the usual mesmeric complete control
of his muscles. I then got his boy companion, whom
I shall call “ D.,” on the floor beside him, and told
the subject to put his nose against “ D.’s ” nose ; he
did : then I told him that they could not separate
their noses, and they could not. Just previous to
this I had tried the experiment of placing “ M.” and
11 “D.” back to back, and told “M.” that “D.” could
not get away from him, and he could not. I then
| asked the student, whom I shall call “ S.,” to see if
I he could separate them. He declined to try. One
of the ladies then requested Miss “ A.” to try. She
did so, but could not effect their separation. I saw
nothing abnormal in the physical or mental condition
I of the boy “ D.,” or Miss “ A.,” at this time. I had
Feb. 13, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
79
declined previously to mesmerise Miss “A.” “M.,”
upon my asking him how he felt, described his
feelings by saying his “ head was full up.” I did
not like the dull, log-like way in which the mesmeric
influence affected him, and shortly brought him out
of the mesmeric state. I do not think he was in it
more than a quarter of an hour. My attention was
immediately called by one of the company to Miss
“ A.,” who had returned to her chair, about ten feet
away from me, and, with closed eyes, seemed to be
falling asleep. I recognised an influence similar to
the mesmeric in her case, and tried by a few passes
to take the influence off her. She roused up for a
moment, but so soon as my back was turned the
sleepy symptoms returned. Then my attention
was directed to “D.,” who was near tumbling
off his chair. I went up to him, speaking
sharply, and making a pass or two he appeared
to come out of the state pretty well. Warned
by a previous experience which had occurred
about two years before, I determined to leave the
house as soon as possible. I went into the hall and
commenced putting on my overcoat and overshoes.
Immediately “ M.” and Miss “ A.,” both with eyes
closed and apparently in a profound mesmeric state,
followed me into the hall and came close to me. I
commanded them to return to the parlour. I heard
a lady in the room telling them to go out into the
ball. I, speaking in the hall, rebuked her. The
two came out again, and again I ordered them back,
and they obeyed as before, but each time moving
slowly and with apparent reluctance. I left the
house, and at once proceeded home, about half a mile
distant. When thirty yards or so from the house, I
heard the voice of Miss “ A.,” proceeding from the
porch or front steps, calling out my name loudly. I
felt that they would follow me, if possible. I went
immediately to bed upon my arrival home, and read
a book for a time to get my mind as much as pos¬
sible off the scene in which I had participated that
evening. Upon putting out the lamp and trying to
sleep, the face of Miss “A.” continually presented
itself to my mental vision : the effect was distressing
and the influence evil. I did not see the boy “ M.,”
and at the time I reflected upon the fact that he did
not come up before my mind’s eye, so to speak.
Finally, after an hour or two, I got to sleep.
The next morning I went to see the young married
gentleman, whom I shall call “ P.,” to know from
him what transpired after I left the house. He
stated that the youngest daughter shut the parlour
door and placed herself against it to prevent Miss
“ A.” and “ M.” going after me; that “ M.” pushed her
aside, opened the door, and made his way into the
hall; that about the same time Miss “ A.” rushed to
the folding doors separating the parlour from the
drawing-room, pushed the doors open, ran through
the drawing-room, opened the door opening out of
the drawing-room into the hall, ran into the front
hall, and out to the front door. After a short delay
they then both ran out of doors, going down the street
I did. Miss “ A.” ran with uncovered head and
slippered feet over the ground covered with snow
(which, however, had been well trodden) about fifty
yards. “ M.” went perhaps fifty yards farther on my
track. The student followed them and induced
them, still in a stupid sort of condition, to return to
>| the house. Mr. “ P.” also started after them, but
j i later than “ S.,” and met Miss “A.” near the house
>i returning. Mr. P. informs me that Miss “A.” could
(j not get to sleep for some time that night, and was
jj troubled with bad dreams. The eldest daughter, I
(j am told, while this scene was transpiring in the
)| house, did not seem to notice what was going on. I
y! did not notice her. What is the meaning of this ?
)j I had made no attempt in any way to mesmerise
(j Miss “ A.” or the boy “ D.,” neither did I cZmre to
j! do so. I did not seem to be able to take the influ¬
ence off Miss “ A.,” as I have always been able to
>1 with my subjects. After taking the influence off
“ M.” he relapsed into as deep or a deeper mesmeric
)! sleep as ever, contrary to my experience with other
\| subjects. My will was strong that they should
.; remain in the parlour, yet they returned there with
reluctance, and immediately followed me. I cannot
i believe that the influence of the mesmeric fluid
emanating from me was hurtful and evil. I have
had my influence described by subjects as soothing
and pleasant; it has removed headaches and broken
| up severe cases of neuralgia. What, then, was the
influence affecting these persons ? That it was evil,
I my previous experience, my feelings at the time, and
| my experience after I had retired, all conspired to
| show. My opinion is that “ M.” is what I should call
j a low-class medium ; that as Miss “ A.” and “ D.”
< j were in contact with him, an evil spirit or spirits
)| took power out of “ M.” to muddle and control them,
(i with a view of thwarting and worrying me. I have
several standard works on mesmerism, prominent
among which I rank the admirable work of the late
/j Professor Gregory, also Dr. Edwin Lee’s and De-
(| leuze’s books ; but in no work that I possess on the
)j subject, nor in the columns of The Spiritualist, the
(! Medium, or the Banner of Light, have I ever seen
) | any account of an experience like mine. Is it dan-
(| gerous to mesmerise for amusement? Ought the
practice to be abandoned? I shall be pleased to
have light thrown on the subject.
) 1 Windsor, Nova Scotia, Dominion of Canada, January, 18S0.
{! ORGANISATION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS IN
AUSTRALIA.
We have received the annual report of the Vic-
> | torian Association of Spiritualists, and make the fol¬
lowing extracts therefrom, to show the flourishing
| condition of organisation among Spiritualists in
yj Australia:—
One of the most notable events in connection with
) i Spiritualism during your committee’s term of office
(| was the arrival amongst us of Dr. Henry Slade, the
)| world-renowned slate-writing medium. His visit
(j caused great sensation among the outside public, and
) i your committee have reason to think that his labours
) I have canied conviction of the facts of Spiritualism to
)! many who were previously sceptical. A special seance
\j was given to a sub-committee specially appointed by
) j us, which fully convinced them of the genuineness of
\ I his mediumistic powers. It is expected that he will
)i pay another visit to these colonies next year.
On Friday, 18th October, the first public stance
)i took place at the Masonic Hall, Mrs. Fielden, the
80
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 13, 1880.
well-known Melbourne trance medium, having gene¬
rously placed her services at the disposal of your
committee for ten seances, the net proceeds to be
given towards the building fund of the association.
These stances were divided into two parts. The first
portion of the evening was devoted to the exercise of
the medium’s clairvoyant powers in announcing the
names of spirits present and describing them ; during
the second part addresses "were given by the medium’s
controls, and not unfrequently spirit friends of people
in the room spoke through the medium. During Mrs.
Britten’s lectures in March and April, Mrs. Fielden,
yielding to the wishes of your committee and several
members, consented to give another course to accom¬
modate members of the association and others who,
under the circumstances already referred to, objected
to attend the lectures by Mrs. Britten. This second
course proved even more successful than the first,
the hall being most inconveniently crowded every
night, and numbers of people unable to obtain ad¬
mission.
The first debate meeting in connection with the
association was held at the Masonic Hall, Tuesday,
January 14th, opened by Mr. Thomas Walker, on
“What are the Evidences in Favour of the Pheno¬
mena of Spiritualism ? ” and the first experience
meeting on Tuesday, January 28th. Several such
meetings were periodically held and always with
marked success. The experience meetings have
been the means of causing a great many persons to
investigate the subject of Spiritualism.
Since the last annual general meeting, three
special general meetings have been held. The first
of these was held on 5th December, 1878, at the
Masonic Hall, to confirm the rules framed by your
committee, and further to discuss the best method
for attaining the objects of the association. Several
new members joined on that evening, and many
valuable suggestions were made, which have since
received the attention of your committee. The
second special general meeting was held at the
Masonic Hall, on 7th February, 1879, to consider the
correspondence which had passed between Mrs.
Britten and the association in reference to that lady’s
revisiting Melbourne. This meeting fully endorsed
the action of your committee, and with an expression
of confidence left the entire matter in their hands.
The third special general meeting was held in the
Masonic Hall, April 18th, 1879.
On the 5th February your committee, on behalf of
the association, tendered a ball to Mr. Thomas
Walker, at the Manchester Unity Hall, to celebrate
the attainment of his majority, and presented him
with a handsome writing desk. The entertainment
passed off with great dclat, and the net proceeds
were handed over as a gift to Mr, Walker. On 29 th
May, 1879, a social meeting was held at Lowe’s
Room. Tea was served at seven o’clock, followed by
a concert and some speeches, and altogether a most
agreeable evening was spent. The refreshments
were provided by lady members of the association,
and a large surplus of the provisions was sent to the
Immigrants’ Home. On the 9th July Mr. Thomas
Walker’s farewell soiree took place at the Temperance
Hall; nearly four hundred persons were present.
After some speeches and music the evening was
<i concluded with dancing. On that evening your
)| committee presented Mr. Thomas Walker, on behalf
Jr of the association, with an illuminated address in the
)! following words :—
(! Melbourne, Victoria, July 9th, 1879.
(| To Mr. Thomas Walkek.
Dear Sir,—We, the undersigned officers of the Victorian
>; Association of Spiritualists, in view of your early departure for
J j England, desire to place on record our appreciation of your
< I valuable labours in the cause of Spiritualism and free religious
\ j thought in Victoria.
) i The large and intellectual audiences who have assembled for a
); long period to hear the inspired utterances which have fallen
/ j from your lips, prove that you have made a distinguished repu-
(| tation as a public speaker and teacher; whilst the cordial
(! feeling existing between not only the members of our association,
> j but freethinkers generally, and yourself, testify their appreciation
) | of you personally.
J | Cordially wishing you God-speed, and looking for your early
\ i return amongst us, we are, dear sir, yours fraternally,
A. Deakin, President;
T. W. Stanford,)
W. B. Bowley, > Vice-Presidents;
Ji G. A. Stow, )
W. H. Terry, Treasurer;
A. Van Ryn Van Alkemade, Secretary.
Realising the important influence on religious
thought exercised by the popular lectures at the
Jl Opera House and other theatres, your committee
) | have taken steps to obtain the services of competent
Ji speakers to fill their platform, and in response to
/1 letters despatched to popular speakers in America,
J| Professor William Denton and Mrs. Addie L. Ballow
J| have expressed their willingness to visit us if suit-
JI able arrangements could be made. An offer for a
J| three months’ course of lectures has been sent to
J | Professor Denton, and a reply is expected next
J| month. Professor Denton, an Englishman by birth,
>! and one of the ablest speakers on the American
J | spiritualistic and freethought platform, lectures from
> | a scientific standpoint, and builds upon that basis
J| the spiritual edifice. On account of the dearth of
J | lay lecturers, your committee have deemed it advis-
Jj able, until the arrival of a paid speaker, to hold the
>! meetings in the smaller Temperance Hall, and to
1 limit them to members and their immediate friends.
Some four years since a building fund was initiated
| by a former association, and a sum deposited in
| trust for that purpose. Your committee made appli-
J i cation to the trustees for the amount, with accrued
Ji interest, to be handed over to them, and their request
J| being acceded to, the profits of Mrs. Fielden’s first
J| series of seances were added to it, and the total
J i amount deposited at interest as the basis of a
Ji building fund.
Your committee would respectfully urge upon you
ji the advisability of augmenting this fund either by
J| donations or a fixed annual subscription, as the
Ji action of the Government in suppressing our right to
J l charge for seats in licensed buildings make it more
J | imperative that we should possess a building of our
J i own.
Speaking generally, the status of Spiritualism in
J| Victoria may be said to be higher, and its prospects
J | brighter than heretofore. The tone adopted by the
Jl press and the pulpit towards the movement is at
J| least more tolerant. Adherents are more open in
Jl the expression of their views, and what may be
J | termed a spiritualistic vein of thought is found more
!v. and more prominent in the utterances of Churchmen.
Feb. IS, 1880.
THE SPIRITtTALlST.
The late lectures of the Bishop of Melbourne are n
notable instances of this change. The orthodox K}
views of inspiration and other dogmas, under the Uj
conjoint influences of modern science and spirit- m
ualistic philosophy have been gradually transmuted o
into what is almost a new and certainly a more m
rational faith. The investigation of spiritualistic uj-
phenomena steadily attracts large classes to the j)j
principles which underlie them, and the formation of j(j
private circles has in many directions been attended j)i
with satisfactory results. As the facts of spirit com- m
munion obtain stronger foothold, the materialists, as m
well as idealists, find themselves placed face to face k|
with problems which the present theories of things 1)1
are unable to solve. The attitude of the public Kj
therefore at present is one more of sceptical curiosity j) j
and less of bigoted contempt. They begin to appre- |(|
ciate the significance of the movement and the j;j
breadth of its teachings, and thus the opportunities |<|
of usefulness which lie before the Victorian Associa- |)i
tion of Spiritualists are more plentiful, and promise Kj
to be more fruitful, than those of the past.
A. Van Eyn Van Alkemade, Hon. Sec.
The Victorian Association of Spiritualists has K j
published the following statement of receipts and
expenditure for the year ending the 31st of August, j)j
1879 !—
Dr.—Cash in hand 12th September, 1878, £6 12s. lOd. > i(j
subscriptions and donations, £126 15s. 4d. ; proceeds o* i)j
lectures, .£578 6s. 6d.; proceeds of debate meetings, £10 2s. j')j
3d.; proceeds of experience meetings, £7 7s. 2d.; proceeds of n
social meetings, £19 8s. 5d.; proceeds of seances, £89 15s. 9d.: j(i
total, £838 8s. 3d.
Cr.—Remuneration to lecturers, £145 7s.; rent, theatres,
and halls, £313 10s. 6d.; advertising, £86 4s. 6d.; printing, in
posting, &c., £71 15s.; Glen and Co., for use of harmonium, j(i
£25 19s. 9d.; office rent, £25 6s. 8d.; trustees of Victorian (j
Association of Spiritualists, Building Bund, £28 4s.; presenta- nj
lion to Mrs. Fielden, £25 ; books, papers, &c., for library, £14
9s. 3d. ; piano hire, £6 5s. ; fees—theatre employes, £3 ; j)j
salary, organist, £10 19s.; tracts, £5; fees, ticket sellers, £4 iji
11s.; music for choir, £2; reporters, £1 10s.; postages, £5 Kj
16s. 6d.; petty expenses, cabs for mediums, boards, telegrams, !>j
&c., £8 14s. 9d.; balance, 31st August, 1879, £54 15s. 4d.: j/j
total, £838 8s. 3d.
The above was audited and found correct by j>j
George A. Stow and Joh. B. Cohen, auditors.
AN ANGLO-INDIAN’S SPIRITUALISTIC EX¬
PERIENCES IN LONDON.
To the Editor of “ The Pioneer" {Allahabad).
Sir,—I am rather an inquirer than a propagandist
in reference to Spiritualism, so I offer my experiences ! jj
to others in the same frame of mind, on the Christian j} I
principle of doing as I would be done by; not in the
expectation of making converts. I like to hear what
other people have seen when, I am sure, they are nj
giving me truthful accounts, so others may be glad of ju
my report.
I was at home for some months a few years ago, j(j
and had previously had little to do with this subject.
The first person I saw at Charing-cross Station was Kj
an old friend who had come to meet me, and almost j)j
the first thing he told me was that he had, to his own j(!
amazement, become a partial believer in Spiritualism, j) j
In his own drawing-room, with none but members of jj j
his family about, except a medium whom he had held \) i
the whole time, chairs and other things had been
moved about the room in an unnatural manner, &c.
He formed no theories, but felt convinced there was
“ something in it.” I may add that my friend is a
man of culture and some literary reputation—a
Saturday Reviewer, and so forth. I was soon drawn
into the vortex, and became deeply interested. My
friend’s family and my own form a large connected
group. We held repeated seances amongst ourselves.
Many of these failed absolutely ; at some we re¬
ceived faint raps and movements of tables, which we
believed ourselves not to have produced in any ordi¬
nary way. Some of the communications spelled out
by raps or tilts were coherent, though none were of a
nature to be worth recording as evidence. Some
other phenomena were once observed which I will
speak of directly. My acquaintance rapidly spread
through Spiritualistic society. I went to many
public and semi-public stances of professed mediums.
Not to speak of raps and movements of objects in
the dark, which are not in the least impressive at the
houses of professional mediums, I saw on two or
three occasions some partial “ materialisations” which
were very extraordinary. They happened in this way.
Four or five of us, i.e., of the family group above
referred to, were sitting in the dark on one occasion
at the rooms of the well-known medium Williams,
no other stranger being present. We saw what are
called “spirit lights” flitting about. These lights
appeared like little sparks which travelled through a
short course, and then disappeared as a rule. Sud¬
denly one of them, instead of disappearing, paused in
mid air above the table and our heads, and expanded
into a little luminous cloud, which at once assumed
the appearance of a face. Expanding downwards,
there came shoulders, covered with some sort of
white garment. The head was covered with a
white turban. The face became perfectly distinct
and self-luminous. When I saw it nothing was
visible below the shoulders, but the head and
shoulders moved about without any reference to
what was underneath; that is to say, being at one
moment at the further side of the room, at the next
it would advance to within a foot or so of me, and
remain suspended above the table. At another
seance of a similar kind, which my wife and other
nembers of our family attended, but at which, I
regret to say, I was not present, the same face
appeared in the same way, and the materialisation
went a step further. Arms and hands developed.
The “ spirit,” said to be “ John King,” shook hands
with my wife, and spoke to her and others. Of
course, if this had taken place at our own house, the
phenomenon would have presented itself to our
minds, irresistible as to what it professed to be ; but
occurring at a professional medium’s house, one’s
suspicions go hunting round and round the circum¬
stances in search of some possible explanation on the
assumption of imposture. However, I have never
been able to work out any theory of that kind. The
effect could not have been produced by any magic
lantern apparatus, nor by the simple machinery of
“Pepper’s Ghost,” which has impressed your not
very scientific, though ever-delightful London corre¬
spondent. For myself, I may remark that natural
science has always been my hobby from a boy, and
82
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 13, 1880.
its ordinary resources, as applied to conjuring, are |>
very familiar to me. No optical effects of the con- nf
juror’s kind will bear looking at all round—as we j)|
looked at what was said to be “John King” while j\j
he remained over the table, descending low down on |)|
to it, too, so that the head was no more than two feet j \ I
above the surface of the table. And a collateral fact j/j
that has impressed me is this: once at one of our (I
quite private seances, with no medium or stranger j)j
present, we saw little sparks in the air just like the m
more vivid spirit lights of Williams’s stance, though |>|
in our private case, for want, as a Spiritualist would j (j
say, of sufficient mediumship, they did not develop j) j
into visible faces.
Again, on one occasion when Williams was present j)j
at a private house where I attended a seance, the Kj
“John King” face appeared just as I saw it at m
Williams’s lodgings. That is a striking fact to me, m
because at the house in question Williams could have j)j
had no apparatus. I) j
In the midst of my researches I was introduced to |)j
a lady, whose name I think I may mention here, j)i
because she has become so very celebrated in connec- j)j
tion with this subject—I mean Mrs. Guppy. Mrs. Kj
Guppy, since remarried, was at that time a widow of \\\
ample private means, living at Kensington, and suivie* j \ \
by hunters after Spiritualism to that degree that* j/j
though she used to hold seances about three evenings Kj
a week, one had to get permission to attend these j(j
some time in advance. People had no conscience jjj
about begging to be allowed to come. However, j<j
during my stay in London, Mrs. Guppy kindly in- j>j
vited me on three occasions. It would take columns j<|
to describe all that occurred. Mrs. Guppy has been j) j
described as the “Empress of Physical Mediums,” m
and all the physical phenomena so often referred Kj
to in writings on this subject occur in her j)j
presence in myriads. Such a Castle of Enchantment ! > j
as I found that comfortable house in Kensington to m
be, I can hardly expect your readers to realise. Mrs. j > j
Guppy’s guests would assemble in the drawing-room j (j
about 8 or 9 o’clock, and when all were there we used j ji
to go up to an almost empty room on the upper floor, j (j
where the stances were held. The phenomena in the j) j
habit of occurring' would have been ruination in a K
drawing-room with much furniture and ornaments !)j
about. Two or three gentlemen would sometimes go (j
up first to look about the room, and Mrs. Guppy, I m
remember, sent me up in this way in advance of the j(j
rest on the first evening I was present. The room j)j
was of moderate size, with one window and one door. j(j
A jet of gas turned over the mantelpiece, a bare Kj
round table with a hole in the middle, and a dozen u
or so of common cane chairs, constituted all the Kj
furniture. The window shutter was in one large j(j
solid piece of wood, going over the whole j/j
window, and fastened into its place with long iron m
screws. I assisted to put it up on the evening 1)1
of which I speak. Then the party all came up, about j (\
fifteen in number; some sat round the table, some Kj
stood about. While these arrangements were being j (j
made loud raps, as loud as might have been made with j) I
a small hammer, were clattering all round the room, on j (j
walls, floor, and ceiling. Trifles of that sort were Kj
not much noticed at Mrs. Guppy’s. Then the gas Kj
was turned out, and the door shut. I may mention Ki
that the door was fastened in a more effectual
manner than by bolts or bars. If it was opened an
inch, light streamed in from the hall below. There
could never be any doubt as to whether itwas shut or
open. Well; closed in as we were by four bare walls
and that huge shutter, darkness was no sooner esta¬
blished than we heard a swishing through the room. I
felt drops of water on my face, and felt myself
brushed about in an unintelligible way, and people
began calling out for a light. One of the gentlemen
appointed to the charge of the candle and match box
struck a light, and we found the room strewn all over
with the branches of trees—large branches several
feet long, wet with rain, and freshly torn from wher¬
ever they had been growing. There were not two
or three, you will understand, but more than one
person could have carried on his arms, all over the
floor and table. Darkness was re-established, and
other things came; quantities of flowers; and on one
occasion, with a tremendous smash on the table, a big
block of ice weighing many pounds. I cannot now
relate all that occurred in the order of its occurrence,
but as I go on I record my recollections of the whole
series of three evenings when I was present. “ Spirit
hands ” came touching us once, and then to see some¬
thing that had been brought a light was called for.
While the candle was still burning spirit hands showed
themselves at the hole in the middle of the table.
Many of us, as I myself, rested our hands on the
table at the edge of this hole, and the spirit hands
would flutter up and touch them, thus coming plainly
into sight. Much time would be spent in conversa¬
tion by raps between various persons present and
spirits with whom they found themselves, or thought
themselves in communication. One evening we had
a professional medium present—a Mrs. Hardy—who
went into a trance, and spoke in strange voices, but I
was not interested much in this. Quantities of little
objects would be brought to some of the sitters from
their own houses at a distance, but this did not
happen to me. Then people would suddenly feel
their rings taken off, and these would be as suddenly
slipped on to the fingers of people in a different part
of the room. All this sort of childishness is very
irritating to a person seriously trying to make out the
truth about great marvels, apparently hinging on to
mysteries of the supremest importance. But unfortu¬
nately Spiritualism has a great attraction for foolish
as well as for intelligent persons, and large stances
will generally be leavened with a painful element of
silliness. When the seances used to be over, and we
went downstairs, raps and other phenomena would
follow us. It used to be Mrs; Guppy’s hospitable
practice to have supper laid out in the dining-room
on stance evenings. Once I remember about fourteen
people had gathered sitting round this supper table,
and a few others, of whom I was one, were standing
about the room, when the table began to jerk and
jump. Our hostess was more anxious for the safety
of her glass and china than for further manifestations
just then, and we all, as far as appearance went, tried
to hold down the table. I know that one intimate
friend of my own, sitting at the end of the table,
tried to do this, all he knew; and that I, standing
behind and leaning over his shoulder with both hands
on the table, pressed down on it with my whole
83
Feb. 13. 1880. THE S PIE ITU A LI S T.
weight, and felt it nevertheless rise up against me
with a force far beyond my control. Certainly none
of Mrs. Guppy’s guests were underneath the table
trying to smash her things; some held on, and some
helped to remove the breakables.
My return to India put an end to my spiritual¬
istic researches, I am sorry to say, and out here it is
next to impossible to carry on the subject, in the
midst of pressing occupations and social engagements,
and, above all, in view of the way one moves about
from place to place in India, and the blank ignorance
of the whole subject which, for the most part, charac¬
terises Indian society. I was very much pleased, how¬
ever, to read Mrs. Gordon’s letter ; and though I did
not keep notes of what I saw when spirit-hunting
myself, I have thought it likely that some of your
readers would be interested in my evidence, such as
it is. The instinct of a lifetime, meanwhile—^per¬
haps the stupid instinct at war with the plainest
facts, bewildered and at bay, but still doggedly assert¬
ing itself—leads me to sign myself
Still in the Dark.
TREATMENT OF SPIRITUALISM A TEST OF
CHARACTER.
BY THE REV. W. MULL.
( Continued,)
Another class consists largely of young men—
young men athirst for knowledge, and who would
deem a reflection on their independence of thought
both unjust and unendurable. They intermeddle
with all knowledge. Nothing is too sacred, nothing
too profound, nothing too old, nothing too new, for
their peering eyes to endeavour to discover and
understand. With their “ open sesame,” they attack
all the storehouses of the past, all the well-nigh
inexhaustible depositories of the present, and even
the proverbially undiscoverable future. All honour
to them! The conservators they are of what is
known to be, and the heralds and the sure prophecy
of knowledge which as yet is not. If chargeable
with a little arrogance, and a little rashness, we may
well forgive them, out of regard for the important
part they play in the work of the world’s progress.
But what is it then with which I tax them ? Simply
this—that there is our subject, tabooed by a large
proportion of respectable and reputedly orthodox
thinkers, which they without due examination allow
themselves also to taboo. Let but an observation be
made in favour of Spiritualism, and they lift their
brows, whistle, and turn on their heels with, “ What
next?” “After this the deluge.” And are these
fine fellows, then, quite so manly, and independent,
and candid, and are they animated by so pure and
ardent a love of truth, of all truth, as they profess,
and as we would fain believe ? And are they so
well instructed as it becomes them when the fact
that the worst lie is often that which most resembles
truth, and that the most precious truth is often to
casual observers the likest to a lie ? I venture to
assure these young men of my sympathy and
admiration, and regret that my grey hairs dis¬
qualify me from standing shoulder to shoulder
with them, and at the same time I so far avail
myself of the privilege of age as to offer them
>1 this word of counsel—Take you this subject
ji of Spiritualism in hand. Do yourselves the
j honour, and the age the service, of discovering and
(j expounding its just claims. It may need patience—
>1 a capacity of distinguishing between the obscure
(I genuine and the spurious false; it may need such
)j habits of observation as persons accustomed to the
l\ study of science may be expected best to exemplify;
)i and it certainly will need either the courage which
(j for truth’s sake does not shrink from popular odium,
>! or the rare ability to account for and explain a wide-
(| spread and intelligently maintained but unwar-
>| ranted and mischievous conviction—a delusion,
(j Protean in form, bringing hope and joy to multi-
)! tudes, but which, being a delusion, requires to be
sj exposed ruthlessly, and demolished at all costs,
j! In qualification for this task, I surely cannot be
\| wrong in concluding that our young men may be
/j expected most to abound.
But I turn to a third class and a large one, con-
) I sisting of men and women to be found in all Christian
(I sects and churches, and in some instances repudiat-
)j ing all denominational distinction or church con-
: | nection; but all possessors of unaffected, and deep,
)j and carefully-cultivated religious feeling. Among
(| the chief constituents of the base on which it rests is
) I belief in posthumous life. This foundation destroyed,
\| what should these righteous do ? The mere sugges-
/| tion is to them as a Dead Sea breeze—pestiferous
}! and life-destroying. But ever exposed to, and suffer-
M ing attack, its enemies during the last one hundred
\| years have become much more numerous and
/! formidable than previously. Now, representations
(j of Spiritualists being well founded, they prove
)i not only that the foundation is solid, but that
(| it is indestructible. To all the pious Spirit-
)l ualists in effect say, “You have not followed a
j cunningly devised fable; your faith is invulnerable.
)i Whatever may be the case with regard to other of its
\| details, and with respect to these we, regarded as
Spiritualists, have nothing to say, your belief in the
\i undying nature of the individual human spirit is
M demonstrably true.” Of course I do not say that
these representations, because so adapted to meet the
)! present requirements of the religious, are, therefore,
\j to be accepted, but I do insist on it, that indifference
)j respecting them, dislike patiently to examine them,
| is illustrative of the power of prejudice to deprive its
j possessor of the possible acquisition of wealth more
\j precious than rubies. “Only”—I would say to these
(| persons— “only realise the possibility of your being
(\ presented in Spiritualism with facts which would
(I change your dearest hopes into absolute certainty, and
which in so doing would meet the world’s mostpress-
(| ing need—availing to secure the prevalence of religious
i I faith beyond all precedent—and say, are you not
(j bound in conscience, by fealty to the principles
>{ which you deem most sacred, to subject this matter
(j to the most patient and painstaking examination ?
)! I submit that whilst blindly to embrace it were the
<1 height of folly, you cannot treat it with neglect and
)i be free from the charge of unfaithfulness to the
(j claims of the religion which you regard, and, _as I
)j think, rightly regard, of peerless value.
(To be continued.)
/
84 THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 13, 1880.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By tht late WM. Gee&ORY, M.D., P.B.S.E., Professor oj Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—Pirut Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER Hr—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Peelings in the Look and Gesture-
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility-Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: thi’ough Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Imrovision.
CHAPTER V: —Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre--
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII.—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not-Act—^Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, <Src., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
■ - Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &o. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &e.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI :—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis—Cases —Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—^Apparitions—Predictions
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 88, British Museum-street, London.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all th® most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Scion/::, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zbllner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism.' Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message?” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the - contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether,
Feb. 13, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting 'punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers ,No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting eiistence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
"CiALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
J- in Spiritualism, by Christian Beimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIEITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.B S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
WO.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VABIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for l£d.; or six copies post free for fid.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN-
GEB AND EPHEMEBIS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“Baphael’s" is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and all the principal events
of the current year, even to the present Afghan War!
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post Free, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London : S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.O.
British national assocll
TION OF SPIBITUALI STS, 38, Groat Eussell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each ; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ S. C.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Bue
de la Pepini£re, Paris.
fTIHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Bich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Bich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, <fcc., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 83, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price3s. fid. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free'
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of U M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White*Mother Death." Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Eichmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Bichmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Besurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon."
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVJ.II.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Bainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
t XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Bev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV.—The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXy.—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI.—Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Belation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., OxOn.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Bev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Bev. C Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon."
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII. — Longfellow’s Position in Belation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Eelation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Bussel Wallace,
F.B.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8 vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
iii
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SABGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. B. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia
N. Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium •
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances?—Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
O. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr, Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Boss-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Bane, Mr. B. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby,
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Eev. S. Watson, and
Bev. E. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Belations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Belations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—•
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Bevelations Made- New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss—Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The kFacts and
Inferences—Concluding Beflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. fid.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Beconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie's Spirit Song"—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Besurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C.
REYUE SPIRITS, Journal deludes
psyehologiques, fonde par Allan Kardee, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Bue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris, Post-Office orders payalt le to
Leymarie.
V
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 13, 1880.
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFOBE AND AFTER THE'
Christmas Ihiddingy
USE
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the "World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Bipe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach,Constipation,Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Bev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“ I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verifled
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to he a blessing to the
world.” -
QTIMULANTS AND INSUFFICIENT
IO AMOUNT of EXEBCISE frequently DE-
BANGE the LIVEE. ENO’S FEUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WOBLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FEUIT SaLT —
“ All our customers for ENO’S FBUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
1 he Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c,, use
MO’S MFIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
_oL FBUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it. .
TT'AGGED, WEARY, AND WORN
JD OUT! !! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FBUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FBUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“14, Ruedela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which he did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never he without it in the house.”—M.
Beral.
TANO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer-
jLli ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try ENO’S FBUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one -bettle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I ana restored to my usual health ; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Egbert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ SUCCESS IN LIFE.”—A new in-
IO vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable, imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Ada ms.
CA UTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marled " ENO'S FRUIT SALT.'’ Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Pi-ice 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6tf.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS
Hatcham, London, S.E.
TESTIMONIAL for Dr. MONCK-
APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS.
Dear Friends,-
Fully sensible that too many appeals have been
made on behalf of Mediums, we feel that Dr. Monck’s
case presents one for a special claim upon the gene¬
rosity of Spiritualists.
As one of the Pioneers of our belief, he has not only
spent his private means, but also his very life; for in
furthering research by means of the marvellous
materialisations in the light through his mediumship,
his health, already exhausted by bitter persecution,
has completely given way.
For nearly two years he has been cared for by kind
friends, but it is now his desire to return to the work
so dear to him as soon as his health permits, and
especially is. it his wish to work as an unpaid
medium, to do which some temporary help is now
needed.
The undersigned earnestly appeal to all Spiritualists
to assist Dr. Monck in his present necessity, and to
subscribe liberally to the Testimonial now under their
care.
One friend has offered to give £20 if £80 mors is
subscribed in sums of £10 and £5 each. We think this
challenge should be accepted, hut we hope small sums
will not he withheld.
W. P. Adshead, Belper.
Dr. BROWN, Burnley.
James Burns, Southampton-row.
Alexander Carder, 1, Hereford-square, S.W.
Prof. B. Fuiese, Breslau.
A. J. Cranstoun, Meggen, Lucerne.
J. H. GledstANES, Merignac.
Baron Dirckinck Holmfeld, Holstein.
Sir C. Isham, Bart., Northampton.
Bev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Kilburn.
Wm. Oxley, Manchester.
E. Dawson Eogers, Finchley.
Mobell Theobald, Hon. See.
J. Pemberton Turner, Leamington.
Mrs. Tyndall, Edgbaston.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P., Queen Anne-street.
Prof. F. Z0LLNER, Leipzig.
AH remittances should he sent to
Morell Theobald.
62, Granville-park, Blackheath.
Subscriptions already beobiyed.
£ s. d.
Mr. and Mrs. Oranstoun, Lucerne     10 0 0
Mrs. Tyn,dall, Edgbaston   10 0 0
W. P. Adshead, Esq., Belper  -5 5 0
William Tebb, Esq., Albert-road  5 5 0
H.B.H. Prince G   5 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square 5 0 0
Dr. J. Dixon, Great Ormond-street   5 0 0
F. G. S., per A. Calder, Esq    2 2 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart   2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P....    2 2 0
J. Pemberton Turner, Esq.   2 2 0
Morell Theobald, Esq    2 2 0
F. Myers, Esq.   2 0 0
Two Friends      2 0 0
Dr. Brown, Burnley    110
Wm. Oxley, Esq   110
Bev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A  110
Mrs. Stone, Shute Haye  110
J. B. Stones, Esq.   1  1 10
Dr. Stowell, Brighton   1 1 0
James Bowman, Glasgow     10 0
Miss Douglas, South Audley-street  10 0
B. Gessler, Basle   1 0 0
A Friend, per B. Qessler  10 0
Joseph'Swinburne, Esq     10 0
A. Tod, Peebles    10 0
Bev. W. Miall, Hackney   10 0
Miss Ottley, Belgravia     10 0
Di*; Wyld   10 0
John A. Hoover, Philadelphia   0 5 0
A. P., Edinburgh         0 10 0
W. E. Tomlinson  ’.    0 10 0
T. Farrell    0 10 0
J. Thompson      0 10 0
Small Sums     1 13 0
Second List.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     10 0
Prof. Casea], Lon. University   110
A. J. Cranstoun, Esq., second donation ... 2 0 0
F. W. Percival, Esq., Savile Club   1 1 0
The Yen. Archdeacon T  10 0 0
Herr Oscar von Hoffman, Leipzig   8 0 0
J. Clark Ferguson       0 10 0
Dr. Kennedy     20 0 0
B. Glendinning, Birkdale  110
“ One who Wishes She Gould do More ”  0 10 0
George Tommy, Bristol *  0 10 6
Capt. Oopperthwaite, Malton ' 6 0 0
Capt. James, Gower-street    110
P.O. Order from Germany  1 0 0
Other Squall Sums and Stamps  0 9 6
Price 5s. Or. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Braneh Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
I WORKS by AN DREW JACKSON DAYIS,
The “Poughkeepsie Seer." , s. d
The Physician. Yol. I, Gt. Harmonia . 7 C
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ . .76
The Beformer. „ IV. ,, . .76
The Thinker.’ „ Y. , ..70
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 0
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . .70
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People   7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health 7 6
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . 2 6
Free Thoughts Concerning Beligion . . .86
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE BIEKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
BECEIPTS EXCEED FOUE MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOE TWO GUINEAS PEE MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Bent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIEKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOB FIVE SHILLINGS PEE MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIBKBECK FBEEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FEANC1S BAVENSCBOFT, Manager
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FEANCIS BAVENSCEOF r. Manager.
Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane.
February, 1880.] . [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL BEYIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
Spiritualism in some of its Eeligious Aspects; A
Comparison and a Contrast: M.A. (Oxon)—Glimpses
of Spiritualism in the Past: J. S. Farmer—Spiritual-
isiic Positivism: Dr. Maurice Davies—Culture aod
Faith: M.A. (Oxon)—Dream Concerning the “Dollar
Wrack: ” A. M. H. Watts—A “ Mission ” in Tyrol: A.
M. H. W.—The Story of a Dream—Extemporaneous
Sermons by Thomas L. Harris: A. M—Universal
Best tution-: J. W. F.—Notes and Gleanings: The
True Besnlts of Spiritualism; Clear Seeing of Women;
Power of Mind on Mind; An Impressive Case ; Victor
Hugo Spiritualism.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW: Hay Nisbet & Co., 52, Bopework-lane
CONTENTS.
Margaret Lonsdale’s Biography of Sister Dora.
By Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P..".     73
The Sheffield Daily Telegraph on Spiritual Pheno
mena       74
Correspondence:—Dr. Monck     75
A Voice from Outside the Fold. By Frank Podmore 76
The Police Baffled by Spiritual Phenomena  77
Alleged Apparitions in County Mayo   78
Curious Mesmeric Phenomena     78
Organisation among Spiritualists in Australia  79
An Anglo-Indian’s Spi itualistic Experiences-in
London           81
Treatment of Spiritualism a Test of Character.
By the Bev. W. Miall    83
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.,
at the Holhom Printing Works, Fullwood's B.erits
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-ajtjove-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub
lished by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lanej London
E.C
