Registered as a Newspaper,
&K?) f’^Ydfio^OG^id®^ $di^>fd^.
mi Olbcst gclospapr toiilj Spinfxuxl^m hx (&xmi grifain,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON: n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
, ' PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO :i3ig, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 10x0, Seventh-street.
No. 296.—(Vot. XIL—No. 17.)
LONDON : FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1878.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence
orimtents.
The Imprisonment of Mediums in Lunatic Asylums 193
A -New Edition of Festus:—Life in the Spirit World—
True Love—Angel-Guarded—Sunrise  194
Indian Muntru or Incantation Scenes  196
Mourning for the Dead...    ...     197
The Beturu of Dr. Slade to Berlin    198
An Apparition Seen by Lieut.-General Fytche  198
Curious Experiments ...    198
Remarkable Results of Original Research in Spiritualism 198
The Two Angels. -(Poetry.)    198
The Attempt to Lock up Mrs. Weldon in a Madhouse 199
The Shopkeeping Materialism of England  200
Poetry:—Three Silences  201
Correspondence: — Spirit Photography in the Dark —
Spiritual Phenomena in Birmingham—The Alleged
Mystical Todas  201
Misrepresentations of Spiritualists 202
War      ... 203
Psychography 204
Sirr’s China and the Chinese  204
Paragraphs:—Passed to Spirit Life, 198; Lecture at St.
George’s Hall, 198 ; Religious Mania, 198; A Question
of Weight, 199; Self-Sacrificing Spiritualists, 199;
The Resurrection of the Dead, 199; Spiritual Teachers,
199 ; A Photographic Mystery, 200 ; The Efficacy of
Prayers to St. Antony, of Padua, 200 ; Body and Spirit,
203 ; Oaths among Savages, 203 ; Spiritualists’
Meeting ... ... .>.  203
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
BtSTABIiIgHED IN 1869.
mHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise i most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. E. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuclitenberg!: Mr. II. G. Atkinson. F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American iiDnister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross -Church (Florence Marryn t): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law,; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrg: Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. tR.tGeorge W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Falmm Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
he:'“ Life- of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
. Maurice Davies. D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.8.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. Wilham Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s.TOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's-churcbyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Malionaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pe«th: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Keamey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-Street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper "Branch Office, 38. Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
AS AMANUENSIS OR READER—-A
WIDOW, 53, well informed, plays and sings agree¬
ably,.snd writes a swift and legible hand. Would, tnj iy
rendering assistance in literary pursuits of any kind, and is
deeply interested in Psychology. Remuneration not of first
impcr anee. R., 18, Bromfelde-terrace, Olapham,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
EASTER CLOSING. ;
The Offices at 38, Great Russell-street will be closed for the
Easter Holidays on Thursday, 18th inst., and reopened on
Monday, 29th inst. '
Calendar.
General Purposes Committee, at .5 p.m.
Soiree at 38, Great Russell-street. Ad¬
dress by Rev. W. Stainton Moses on
“ Some of the Difficulties of Inquirers.”
Music, Conversation, and Refresh¬
ments. • Commence at 7 p.m. Ad¬
mission to Members and Friends, Is.
each.
Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
Fortnightly Discusston Melting, at
7.45 p.m. Paper by Mr. J. W. Gray,
Member of the Research Committee,
-Inquirers’ Seance at 8 p.m., Mr. Eg¬
linton, medium.
■Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Committee’s Stance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m. Special
Council Meeting to follow. Motion
by Mrs. Lowe.
Inquirers’ Seance at 8 p.m. Mr. Eg¬
linton, medium.
Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p m.
„ „ Committee’s Stance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Tuesday, April ZOth.-
Wednesday,-
May 1st.
Friday, Zrd.—,
(
Monday, 6th.—1
Wednesday, 8th.-
Friday, 10th.-
Tuesday, lith-
Wednesday, 15th.-
Friday, 11th.-
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kiodred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of boobs on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to—  H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec,
MISS ELLA & MR. FRANK DIETZ
WILL GIVE
R JE C I T A T I O N S
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
During April and May, on
Wednesday Afternoons AT 3p.ii. (beginning April 10th), and
Saturday Evenings at 8,15 p.m. (beginning April 13th).
N B.—There will he no recilaticn May 8th.
Tickets maybe had at Mitchell’s library, 33, Old Bond-street;
Hayes’s box office, 199, Regent-street; at the Hall ; or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of fourteen recitations, one and a half guineas each. Single
tickets—Stalls, 3s.; chairs, 2s. ; balcony, Is.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Yols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely hound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869. to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. B . Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Yarley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110-.
London : W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
TS IT TRUE?—Dr. Hugh McLeod will
JL presently (see future notices) be called upon by a com¬
mittee of ladies and gentlemen, organised for the purpose, to
deliver an intensely interesting course of lectures on the
philosophy of Ancient and Modern Spiritualism. Dr. McLeod
has investigated the entire subject, with the aid of the best
mediums in the world. All friends who may desire to assist
in any way will please address a line, in perfect confidence, to
M. M. B , Secretary to the Committee pro tern., 12, Hamilton-
street, Camden-town, N.W. Discussion will be invited and
demonstrations proposed.
LESSONS in French and Spanish, or English,
to Foreigners. Translations from the above Languages
also undertaken. Address by letter, Viola, care of Miss
Burke, 88, Great Russell-street, W.C.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
Now Ready, Price 2s. 6d.,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
The Spiritualists’ Quarterly, for April.
CONTENTS:—
'Editor’s Address.
I.—Ethics of the New Age.
II.—Experiences of Astrology in India.
III. —Mystical Poetry.
IV. —Modern Materialism.
V.—Dante and Beatrice.
VI.—The Sentiment of Immortality.
VII.—A Seance with Mrs. Marshall.
VIII.—Pilgrimages in Prance. No. 1.—To Paray-le-Monial.
IX.—Psyeography.
X.—Buddhism and Christianity.
XI.—The Miracle Land.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
ASTROLOGY. “Worth its weight in gold.”
Every adult person living should purchase at once
“YOUR FUTURE FORETOLD,” a book of 144 pp., cloth, only
2s. 6d. London: Berger, Newcastle-street, and J. BURNS; or
post-free of E. Casael, High-street, Watford, Herts. Instruc¬
tions to purchasers gratis.
PProfessor adolphe didiers pam-
PHLET on Clairvoyance, price 4d. Also on Curative
Mesmerism, price 6d. Tobehad from the Author, 10, Berkeley-
gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office days—Tuesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 2 to 4 p.m.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.RJ3.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily ho worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.;
post free, seven stamps. » ■ 
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane, W.Oi
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books Supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 26, 1878.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, AY.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., C. Loughborough-road
North. Brixton. S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W,
Hopywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Joncken. Henry D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, c. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev.N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D.,Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Ashton. E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Honnett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Ooftin. W. H„ 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., lateofH.M.S. “Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S:E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, AY.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W. i.
Glendinning. A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S E.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, AVestbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.l C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Jjamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred. E.. 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs.. 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Morse, .T. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. w. Stainton, M.A., University College, N AY.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Oowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould. Rev. W AY., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, AY., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-roart, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Relrrers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Strawbr dge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.AY.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. ReJcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock; St. George. M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, AY.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, AY.
AA hite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
With alt, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AY.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J • K. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn AYittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
r Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empercur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdj& Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Gnldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
JE1 Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Yeh, I, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresoreri e, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearjrchand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylno, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sireet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. AYittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria. Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M .F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vcmon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. 11. Gledstanes; Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery,Esq., 2.Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson.Memphls, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq.. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S A.
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre. Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels. '
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A,
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
3. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.\Y.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Beigrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico d&l Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris. .
Herr J. H. Strath, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Joscfstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Rcpublica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
A STROLOGrY, a Popular Sketch of
Celestial. Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J.
Pearce, author of the Weather Guide Book, &c. Price
Is. 6d. Sent post free by the author on receipt of stamps ;
address, 3, Cedars-terrace, Queen’s-road, South Lambeth, S.W.
The TEXT BOOK OP ASTROLOGY, by the same author,
is now preparing for publication. Vol. I. will contain the
complete rules, and all tables necessary for calculating Na¬
tivities on the Placidian method improved by Zadkiel, by
spherical trigonometry (the only reliable and truly scientific
method). To subscribers the price will be 7s. the first volume.
Intendihg subscribers will please send their orders to the
author.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF UR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
cfc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OP SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. P. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains ihe
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
♦he. rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : COLBY AND Rich. London : Spirit¬
ualist Office.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Predk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co. ■
EAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
Prom the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
T~ HE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. I saac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., <fco. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,*
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above. 
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
. LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment, Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. W. EGLINTON
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
 S.W. 
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE. RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
dours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat tbe sick at their homes.
MRS. C. E. BASSETT,
9, CHOBHAM TERRACE, CHOBHAM ROAD, STRATFORD
  LONDON, E. 
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
® engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefield-road, Kings-
land, N.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (83 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
6 is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
"IVTISS MANCELL, • Spiritual Clairvoyant
-LtJL and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
MISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 40, St. Mary’s-terrace, Maida-hill West, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible com¬
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.C.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
1%/TEDIUMSHIP : ITS
NATURE
AND
-A-tJL VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 88, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
V0]LUE TwEEYEi KuMBER ^EYE^TEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 26th, 1878.
THE IMPRISONMENT OF MEDIUMS IN LUNATIC
ASYLUMS.
The comparative absence of lunacy among Spiritualists, I
as compared with the amount of lunacy among persons of j
other religious beliefs, is perhaps due to the circumstance j
that Spiritualism advances by scientific and experimental
methods, subject to logical accuracy of thought, and that it
not only does not encourage the psychological dram-drinking |
yclept revivals, but understands the purely mesmeric causes j
of such scenes of excitement. Dr. Eugene Crowell, of New |
York, did good service by collecting statistics from every
lunatic asylum in the United States, and proving therefrom j
that the proportion of insane persons among Spiritualists is |
much below the average. The accuracy of his figures is I
admitted in this country by an authority upon such subjects,
Dr. Tuke, who in his recent article on “ Insanity in Ancient
and Modern Life” says:—“One remarkable feature of j
modern life—Spiritualism—has been said to produce an j
alarming amount of insanity, especially in America. It has
been recently stated by an English writer that nearly ten
thousand persons have gone insane on the subject, and are j
confined in asylums in the United States; but careful j
inquiry, made in consequence, has happily disproved the !
statements, and we learn that the amount of insanity pro¬
duced from this cause is almost insignificant, much less than j
that caused by religious excitement.”
Yet mediums are in occasional danger of being locked up
in lunatic asylums. Mrs. Lowe, honorary secretary to the
Lunacy Law Reform Association, was once so locked up
because she was a writing medium. Automatic writing,
much of it of an unpleasant and worthless nature, purporting
to come from intelligences outside herself, was given through
her hand. Like other writing mediums, she was perplexed
by it, and criticised it as any disinterested person would have
done; yet she was shut up in a lunatic asylum, and had
much difficulty in getting out. Last Sunday week, Mrs.
Weldon, who is perfectly sane, was “interviewed” by two
men who obtained entrance to her house on the pretence of
wishing to know something about her Orphanage; and they
perhaps led her on to talk of one or two abnormal experiences
she may have had in her lifetime—such, for instance, as a
remarkable vision. Other people have had visions, especially
after lobster suppers. However, they departed with bow
and scrape; and next day came to her house three persons
to take her away to a madhouse. Had she gone there,
nothing might have now been known in the Spiritualistic
world of the whereabouts of Mrs. Weldon, for many letters,
written by alleged lunatics to their friends, have been stopped
at the outset by the proprietors of asylums. Thus, the liberty
of a British subject may hang upon the certificates of two
doctors who sneak into a house for an hour or. so at the
bidding of a third person. As to the qualifications required
by law in the third person, Mrs. Lowe informs us that any
person may sign the order for incarceration—a shoeblack or
a thief—and only the person who signs the order can cancel
it, without the authoritative interference of the Commis¬
sioners, which is seldom exerted.
A good remedy for all this would be that the alleged
insane person, after being allowed twenty-four hours to
communicate with his friends, shall be taken before the
nearest police magistrate and have the case publicly in¬
quired into ere he can be imprisoned in a lunatic asylum ;
also, that the cause and fact of his incarceration shall be
advertised in certain newspapers. The objection that this
might be a slur upon him in after life does not indicate
nearly so great an evil as the locking up of sane people in
asylums. Besides, the public are Jess afraid of publicity
than in past times. In the Blue Book recently issued on
the subject of Lunacy Law, Mr. Mortimer Granville \TfiQ
Lancet's Commissioner), says that one-third the patients
in lunatic asylums *i might be out advantageously to them¬
selves and the public ! ” “ One-third,” be it understood,
amounts to about 22,200 persons.
We have just read through the report of the Parlia¬
mentary Committee on the subject, and find no plan in it
which, if adopted, would have secured the release of Mrs.
Weldon had she been locked up last week, neither is there
the suggestion of the infliction of any pains and penalties
upon anybody who might have intercepted letters she wrote
to anybody she chose. Therefore, the report is a practical
failure. Let Mr. Dillwyn, who has been moving honestly
and generously in this matter, tell the House of Commons
that if the sane Mrs. Weldon had been reading the report
of the Committee last week in a lunatic asylum, she would
have been justified in tearing it up and condemning it as
worthless, so far as protecting the liberty of a British sub¬
ject is concerned. The presence on the Committee of one
or more persons having an interest in lunatic asylums was
not reassuring to anybody who wished thorough investiga¬
tion ; they had the power of making ex parte statements to
the Committee when the public were absent and when the
report was being drawn up ; in short, their presence there
was in as bad taste as the presence of a coupty magistrate
on the bench during the hearing of a case in which he is
interested.
One word about mediumship, and those psychological
phenomena about which nearly all medical men are thoroughly
ignorant, although there are a few exceptions, and Dr.
Lockhart Robertson is one of them. If a person constantly
sees strange visions, and narrates what he sees with perfect
sanity from one year’s end to another, is that a reason why
he should be locked up in an asylum, any more than a man
who has a cut finger, and talks rationally about it to a
doctor ? The celebrated Mrs. Guppy once had constant
visions, and by her father’s advice said little about them lest
she should be imprisoned in an asylum; afterwards she sat
at a table for physical manifestations, and from the moment
the wonderful external phenomena developed in her presence
her visions ceased. Had she been shut up in an asylum
she would no doubt have been driven mad in real earnest.
Where doctors kill, when they come into contact with
disorderly undeveloped mediumship, Spiritualists cure. We
do not for one moment assert that all visions seen and voices
heard by sensitives come from spirits; many of the phe¬
nomena are purely subjective, and depend upon physiological
and other disturbances. There are also phenomena of an
apparently somewhat similar nature, but due to the action
of an external intelligence trying to communicate with this
lower world in obedience to fixed laws, as proved by the
abundance of scientifically tested and well authenticated
cases on record in this journal; but of these facts and their
laws the doctors who get people shut up in lunatic asylums
are ignorant.
The best thing we can find in the report of the Parliamen¬
tary Committee is this:—“ It seems also desirable that the
person signing the order, or some one on his behalf, should be
required to visit the patient once in every six months.” The
words, “ or some one on his behalf” ought to be struck out.
At all events, it ought to be absolutely compulsory that he
shall visit the patient within one week after incarceration,
and that the patient shall have power to invite any three
| ! persons he pleases, to be present at the same hour; there
{51 should also be ample security that the said three persons re-
| (| ceive the invitation in good time. If one person gives an
! | order which destroys the liberty of another, it is not too
j ) much that he should be compelled to attend at the asylum
| I once every six months. Moreover, this person is exactly the
!(i one who? in some cases? the incarcerated individual may not,
194
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Apeil 26, 1878.
in the interests of justice, desire to see, yet the report permits
that, as in past times, all power shall be in his hands. The
patient should have power to nominate three respectable and
responsible guardians, who should, in the eye of the law,
stand in the same position as the man who signs the order.
Mr. Dillwyn has now a practical case before him, and any
future condition of the Lunacy Law is a failure, if it does not
secure that sane persons like Mrs. Weldon shall, if locked up,
get free again within three days. He will probably agree
that neither the law as it stands, nor as recommended to be
altered, would have achieved that result. How would the
plan answer of the nomination of three (i Lunacy Guardians ”
by the patient ?
Mrs. Lowe, to her honour, rescued Mrs. Weldon from her
fate just in time. How many sane persons are there in
Lunatic Asylums who had no Mrs. Lowe to save them ?
A NEW EDITION OF “FESTUS.”
The tenth edition of Festus, by Philip James Bailey, has
recently been published by Messrs. Longmans. Festus is
probably the most Spiritualistic poem written in modern
times in this country. It was penned by the author many
years ago, when he was quite a young man, and so teems
with spiritual imagery that it could have been given only
by inspiration, by the true divine afflatus^ by unrecognised
mediumship. The author says :—
Read this, World! He 'who writes is dead to thee,
But still lives in these leaves. He spake inspired ;
Night and day, thought came unhelped, undesired,
Like blood to his heart.
The religious sentiment of Festus is broad, and is indicated
in the following lines :—
Lucifer. Here men worship mighty Brahma ; there,
Pure Buddh alone is named in prayer;
And yonder, nought save Heaven ;
Far round, Islam hath conquered been ;
And Moses, and the holy Nazarene,
O’er half the world hath driven.
Festus. I doubt not; each of varient rite,
But all concerned with the Infinite ;
The one, the sole ; in whose kind hand
Lie all things by Him formed or planned,
All orbs, all souls ; to none denied,
Save hearts of prejudice and pride,
Grace, whereby each is sanctified.
O’er all the world one faith I deem,
Howe’er unlike the expression be,
In type, tradition, liturgie,
The life immortal, God supreme.
Lucifer. True ; and to such conclusions come,
On 3 might almost have stayed at home.
Festus. A moment breathe we. Every land,
Beside the sacred trivialities,
Which most the unthinking millions please,
Hath its own sanctity.
We append another quotation :—
LIFE IN THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Festus. Behold now heaven, the spirit exclaimed, and I
One vast and universal heaven behold ;
God’s world-pervading and perpetual smile,
Which, harmonising, lights all, all light o’erspreads.
There everything hath life, the elements
All vitalised, and glorified, and named
Love, wisdom, strength and beauty, and all hues
Which nature owns, from earth’s original blush.
To heaven’s eternal azure, hallowed are;
There sentient clouds, the delicate chariots oft
Of journeying souls, inspired by musical winds,
Winds fragrant as the breath of deity, shed
Grateful, their choicest effluence round the skies.
There, spirit exalting joys abide; there flow
The fountains of eternal life and streams
Of perfect virtue for soul-baptism; there,
Roll faith’s abysmal mysteries, darkly clear ;
Though soundless, shoreless, luminous with life,
Tempting to be explored. There, grow the groves,
Whose trees of golden boles and pearly fruits
Breathe, as wind moved, the harmonious lauds of souls,
Freed from the illusions of more mortal spheres.
Cities and fanes of diamond crown the hills,
Bright with the sole companionship of heaven,
In this pre-earthly paradise, wherein
Who enter are, by kindliest angels, clad
In garments wrought of rainbows; and in robes
Woven as of sunset clouds ; while viny wreaths
Gemberries bearing, form their coronals,
Exuberant of all fruitage. Food they need not
Who live on life, and quaff eternal joy ;
And rest in peace as in the down of doves.
There, many pass all time, the hour of God,
In pure and whole contentment. Others, still,
In ceaseless, boundless progress, as from star
To star, from bliss to bliss pass, until all
Like rays of light, light all attractive, all
Delightful light redeemed up to the sun,
Return to God renewed. In one band, there,
Souls of all faiths, earth-holden, gracious live,
In mutual forgiveness blessing each
The other ; what too in their several creeds
Is proved false, each casts off; what true all keep,
Uniting and amending, for in all
Was truth, if most in one. Thy soul it joys
She said, the spirit, to see this. Search thy heart ;•
Search, wouldst thou enter these abodes, and know
There is a secret sign, whereby the soul
Feels certainty of safety and of power
Imparted, public to the universe,
By a single world unwist of, but to one
Conscious of soul’s divinity a sign
Infallible, of the life immortal; sign
Stamped in the spirit, as is the gleaming seal
Thou sawest on brows of those imparadised,
The true, triliteral monogram of God.
I searched, and in my vision deemed I found.
But what avails it now ?
Lucifer. Aught said she more ?
Festus. What need Ihe spirit more speak ? No more I heard.
She ceased, the all-create; and gazing down deep,
As into her own breast, she crossed in peace
O’er that abyss her life embracing arms.
She ceased; and all was silence. Earth and heaven,
Like solar seas unfathomably bright,
Rolled forth their inmost radiance in twin tides,
Immeasurable. Since the first begotten day,
Until the last born eve when all shall end,
And life’s great vein within the embosoming skies
Be utterly dried up ; till night shall come,
As some cloud-monster eats up, star on star,
The children of the light; till dew no more
Shall freshen earth’s lip, nor breeze her breast, hath been
Beheld such glory, nor shall be, nor may,
Of nature serving God ; she sibyl-like,
Instinct with inspiration, and he her
Endowing with all bliss unendingly.
Lucifer. The universe is but the gate of heaven.
See from this highest orb, the crown of space
And footstool to the infinite, thou may’st gain
Already, a glimpse of glory unconceived.
Festus. See how yon angels stretch their shining arms,
Wave their star-haunting wings which gleam like glass,
And locks that look like morning’s when she comes
Triumphant in the east.
And yet another :—
TRUE LOVE.
Festus. At last came love; not whence I sought nor thought it;
As on a ruined and bewildered wight
Rises the roof he meant to have lost for ever.
On came the living vessel of all love ;
Terrible in its beauty as a serpent;
Rode down upon me like a ship full sail,
And, bearing me before it, kept me up,
Spite of the drowning speed at which we drave
On, on ! Was this not love ?
Lucifer. I know not, I.
Is’t likely I can tell ? I am not in love;
But I have ofttimes heard mine angels call
Most piteously on their lost loves in heaven;
And, as I suffer, I have seen them come ;
Seen starlight faces peep between the clouds,
And hell become a tolerable torment.
Some souls lose all things but the love of beauty;
And by that love they are redeemable;
For in love and beauty they acknowledge good ;
And good is God—the great Necessity.
Festus. I loved her for that she was beautiful;
And that to me she seemed to be all nature,
And all varieties of things in one:
Would set at night in clouds of tears, and rise
All light and laughter in the morning: fear
No petty customs nor appearances;
But think what others only dreamed about;
And say what others did but think ; and do
What others would but say ; and glory in
What others dared but do; so pure withal
In soul; in heart and act such conscious, yet
Such careless innocenc'e, she made round her
A halo of delight; ’twas these which won me ;—
And that she never schooled within her breast
One thought or feeling, but gave holiday
To all; and that she made all even mine
In the communion of love : and we
Grew like each other, for we loved each other ;
She, mild and generous as the air in spring;
And I, like earth, all budding out with love.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
195
April 26, 1818.
Lucifer. And then, love’s old end, falsehood; nothing
worse
I hope ?
Festus. What’s worse than falsehood ? To deny
The god that is within us, and in all
Is love ? Love hath as many vanities
As charms ; and this, perchance, the chief of both;
To make our young heart’s track upon the first,
And snowlike fall of feeling which overspreads
The bosom of the youthful maiden’s mind,
More pure and fair than even its outward type.
If one did thus, was it from vanity ?
Or thoughtlessness, or worse? Nay, let it pass,
The beautiful are never desolate;
But some one always loves them—God or man.
If man abandons, God himself takes them.
I know not why love falters. Sense perchance
Of other’s perfectness discourageth us.
However this, there came, between our twin stars,
A cloud.
* * * # #
Twice did I madly swear, hand clenched, to heaven,
That not even he nor death should tear her from me.
Profane defiance ’twas, ’gainst each. Here, last,
Upon this breast, she swooned ; here, midst these arms;
Here, cloudlike, poured she forth her love which was
Her life to freshen this parched heart. In vain.
Nor looked I e’er again on her alive.
She wished, she said, to die. She wished; she died.
The lightning loathes its cloud ; such souls their clay.
Can I forget that hand I took in mine,
Pale as pale violets ? that eye where soul
And sense met, like divine ? Ah no, may God
That moment judge me when I do 1 Oh ! fair
Was she, her nature once all brightness, spring.
And ominous beauty, like a maiden sword
Startlingly beautiful, whose dark flashes hide
Deaths many, more triumphs. I see thee now.
Whate’er thou art, thy spirit is in my mind;
Thy shadow hourly lengthens o’er my brain,
And peoples all its pictures with thyself.
Gone, not forgot, passed, not lost; thou shalt shine
In heaven, as even a bright spot in the sun.
And now I am alone.
The aspirations of man towards God are thus depicted :—
ANGEL-GUARDED.
Festus. God, sole and onemost; God,
Eternal fountain of the infinite, thou
On whose life-tide the stars seem strown like bubbles,
Forgive me that an atomie of being
Hath sought to see its maker, face to face.
I have viewed all thy works, thy wonders ; passed
From star to star, from space to space, and feel
That all to see which can be seen were nothing,
And not to look upon thee, the invisible.
The spirits I met all seemed to say, as on ■
Starwards, they sped,—their lightning wings o’er me
One moment slackening,—with superior glance,
I might not look, whate?er I were, on God:
But thou this spirit beside me didst empower
To make me more than them, with gifts immortal;
So when we had winged through thy wide world of things
And marked stars made and saved, destroyed and judged,
I said, and trembled lest thou heardst me not,
Nor madest thyself right ready to forgive,
I would see God before I die in heaven.
Forgive me, Lord.
-God. Mortal, rise. Look on me.
Festus. Nought
Unless like dazzling darkness, see I.
Lucifer. Good.
I knew how it would be. I am away,
Festus. Thy creature, God, am I. O slay me not;
But bid some angel take me, or I die.
Guardian Angel. Come hither, Festus !
Festus. Who art thou?
Guardian Angel. ■ I am one
Who hath aye, till late, been by thee from thy birth,
Thy guardian genius, thy good angel, I.
Festus. I knew thee not till now.
Guardian Angel. ' I am never seen
In the earth’s low thick light; but here, in heaven,
And in the air God breathes, I, too, am clear.
Withheld from active charge on earth, that God’s
Ends, by yon spirit challenged, might show plain
In his own eyes, I have here sojourned ; and now,
Leave asked of God, in view of all to come,
And separation’s ends, accomplished, seek,—
Telling to God each night thy thoughts and deeds,
And watching o’er thee on earth, as here,—again
To attend thee through thy life-time. Pray for me,
As I for thee pray daily and intercede.
Festus. Hear, Lord, the prayers of man and angel oned.
And this is heaven. Lead on. Will God forgive
That I did long to see him ?
Guardian Angel. It is the strain
Of all high spirits towards him. Thou couldst not
Even if thou would’st behold God; masked in dust,
Thine eye on darkness lights ; but when flesh-freed,
And the dust shaken off the shining essence,
God shall glow through thee as through living glass,
And every thought and atom of thy being
Shall guest his glory; be o’erbright with God.
Hadst thou not been by faith immortal made
For the instant, lo ! thine eye had been thy death.
Come, I will show thee heaven and angels, all.
The close of the following quotation shows that the author
has grasped the spiritual idea that Heaven is a state, not a
place:—
SUNRISE.
Festus. Morn on the mountains! Mark her lifening glow,
Light’s blessed advent prophesying; and now
The awful signals, sensible, but scarce seen,
Of the under-welkin’d sun. Here, midst this fane,
With the awe of space domed, let me, sole with God,
In privacy of his omnipresence, pray;
And while the unboundedness of earth and sky
Seizes in silence all the spirit, let me,
With nature one, for like dependent life,
Grateful adore.
Lucifer. Oh, pray adore : I’m dumb.
Festus. In silence soul most nears the Infinite.
Hail beauteous Earth. Gazing o’er thee, I all
Forget the bounds of being; and I long
To fill thee, as a lover pines to blend
Soul, passion, yea, existence, with the fair
Creature he calls his own. I ask for nought
Before or after death but this—to lie,
And look, and live, and bask, and bless myself
Upon thy broad bright bosom.
Lucifer. ' Earth’s the-Lord’s.
Festus. True; I should be more reverent. Thou hast all
Nature’s supremest sanctities, earth. From thee
Sprang I, to thee I turn, heart, arm, and brain.
Yes, I am all thine own. Thou art the sole
Parent. To rock and river, plain and wood,
I cry, ye are my kin. While I, O earth!
Am but of thee an atom, and a breath,
Passing unseen and unrecorded, like
The tiny throb here in my temple’s pulse,
Thou art for ever ; and the sacred bride
Of heaven—worthy the passion of our God.
Oh ! full of light, love, grace !—the grace of all
Who owe to thee their life ; thy maker’s love ;
His face’s light. All thine rejoice in thee;
Thou in thyself for aye; rolling through air,
As seraphs’ song, out of their trumpet lips,
Rolls round the skies of heaven. But who is this,
Burning the clouds before him; the round world
Apt to his golden grasp ? his fingers all
Streaming with light effectual to impart
Full fellowship of illuminate life; from out
The depths extreme, who comes, of orient space ?
Undo those gilded bars ; fling wide yon gates
Eastwards, of changeful pearl; wide o’er his ways,
Strew palms, as ’fore heaven’s conqueror, and the night’s
Flying hosts, star-standarded, oh, make pure his paths
With rain of liquid crystal. He shall see
How earth can put on majesty, to meet
The king in her own mansion. Let the morn
Pour, penitent for the past, o’er all his head.
Her wealthful waste of perfumed sweets; his feet
Let kiss, with all her dews. It is he, the sun f
God’s crest upon his azure shield the heavens.
Canst thou, a spirit, look upon him ?
Lucifer. Ay,.
I led him from the void, where he was wrought,
By this right hand, up to the glorious seat
His brightness overshadows ; laid on piles
Of gold his chambers, and upon beams of gold
His throne built; flung a fire -veil round his face;
Crowned him with rays reverberant from all clouds ;
And bade him reign, and burn, like me. Like me
Fall too, he must. I have done, do, nought else
From my first thought to this and to my last.
No matter ; it is beheath this mind of mine
To reck of aught. I bear, have borne the ill
Of ages, of infinities—and must.
I care not. I shall sway the world as now;
Which worse and worse sinks with me as I sink,
Till finite souls evanish as a vapour;
Till immortality, the proud thing, perish ;
And God alone be and eternity.
Then will I clap my hands and cry to him,
I have done; have thy will now; there is none but thee.
I am the first created being. I
Will be the last to perish, and to die.
Festus. Thou art a fit monitor, methinks, of pleasure..
Lucifer. To the high air, sunshine and cloud are one i
Pleasure and pain to me. Thou and, the earth
196
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Alone feel these as different; for yo
Are under them ; the heavens and I above.
Festus. But tell me, have ye scenes like this in hell ?
Lucifer. Nay, not in heaven.
Festus. What is heaven ? not the toys
Of singing, love, and music ? Such a place
Were fit for glee-maids only.
Lucifer. Heaven is no place;
Unless a place with God, all where; no more
Therefore conceivably to come than now.
It is the being good ; the knowing God;
The consciousness of happiness and power;
With knowledge which no spirit e’er can lose,
But doth increase in every state; and aught
It most delights in the full leave to do.
Festus is a great work, but, in common with some other of
its admirers, we hold that the earlier editions are much better
than the later; on the present occasion we have been debarred
from giving some favourite quotations of former years, be¬
cause they have been so altered that their poetic fire is gone’
and prosaic art substituted. Some quotations may be given
hereafter in evidence of this. But it is a great work. A long
time ago it was burlesqued in Firmiliam, a Spasmodic Tragedy,
published in Blackwood's Magazine.
INDIAN MUNTRU OR INCANTATION SCENES.
The Dublin University Magazine is not only giving much
attention at the present time to psychological phenomena
and advanced religious problems, but now and then in past
times it has printed articles of the same nature and of
permanent value. In the years 1848 and 1849 it published
much about psychological phenomena among the natives
of India, showing that the phenomena of modern spirit
circles have long been common in Hindustan. We append
a long quotation from an article by Professor Bal Gungadhur
Shastree, printed in The Dublin University Magazine of
December, 1849:—
I The necromantic Waren may suggest recollections of
the scene enacted by the witch of Endor, as described in
1 Samuel xxviii. Between the general subject of Waren,
indeed, and of that mysterious Hebrew ob, which plays so
remarkable a part in the Old Testament, and which has so
much exercised the ingenuity of scholars and commentators,
there exist analogies, which may hereafter merit special
examination. At present, however, we shall merely add
an example of a process more closely resembling that per¬
formed before Saul, than the curious and original system
described by the learned Shastree. This second form of
necromancy is the formal attempt to raise, by Muntru, or
incantation, not the Waren of the deceased speaking through
the lips of a living person, but the shade or ghost of the
dead, appearing and speaking in its own well-known linea¬
ments and voice. This, however, belongs entirely to a
different category : it is wholly unconnected with, and un- .
accountable by, and cannot be, therefore, a mistaken result |
of physical disease or nervous excitement; but must rank j
among the pretensions, true or false, to black magic. Yet, I
as both aspire to partake of the supernatural, there is a j
certain connection between them; and the particular |
instance we are about to detail was enacted before one who, |
though in other respects a man of strong sense and rather |
incredulous in his views, seems in some instances to have |
yielded to peculiar superstitious influences and beliefs, that I
of Waren among the rest—this was the late ex-Baja of !
Sattara.
“ This prince was long served and guided by a favourite j
minister named Vitthul Punt, who died some years ago. !
After his death his widow became subject to Waren, and !
the extraneous personality which spoke in her during such j
intervals of possession, declared itself to be the spirit of |
her late husband the minister. During these fits she |
prophesied the most extravagant worldly glories to the !
Raja; that he would recover the whole of the original j
Mahratta sovereignty, to the amount of eighty crores of !
revenue ; that he would expel the English; that he would !
ascend the throne at Delhi, &c. These ravings were care- j
fully recorded. A book in which they were compiled was I
found in the palace when Sir James Carnac arrested thq 1
Baja; and there is great reason for supposing that this
delusion, which was the more remarkable in a prince natu¬
rally of so shrewd and even sceptical a temper, mainly con¬
tributed to support him in that line of conduct which
resulted in his ruin.
“ The Waren which possessed this lady seems to bear
some remote analogy to the Daku Waren.
“It is not a little singular that the family of Sattara
seems to have been always somewhat under the influence of
Waren, and to have owed its first rise to the same cause
which has precipitated its fall.
“ We find the earlier records of the family of Mallojee and
Yithogee Bhonsula, of Shahjee and of Seevajee Raja, full of
supernatural visions, which, connected as they are on the
one hand with the worship of the family deity Amba-Baee,
a form of Devee already noticed in a former paper, and on
the other hand, with rigorous fasts, fits of gloomy abstrac¬
tion, prophesying, attempts at suicide, and other occasional
acts on the part of Seevajee, betokening temporary insanity,
we can now perfectly understand, on the supposition that
| the Waren of Amba-Baee was hereditary in the family.
“In a gloomy little recess within the fortress of Purtaup-
gurh, a hill-fort situate in one of the wildest scenes which
it is possible for the imagination to picture, still burns the
flame which Seevajee kindled before the black and hideous
image of his household goddess. The savage mountain
amphitheatre around forms a fitting girdle for the shrine
of the gloomy divinity. Here no pine springs from the
rock, nor heather blooms, nor thistle ‘shakes its hoary beard
in the wind;’ but far as the eye can reach, below and
around, the ground is brown with gigantic fern, whose
palmated but sombre leaves bend in the breeze, like
phantoms of a sad and solemn aspect: intermixed, here
and there, with clumps of Turwur bushes, whose yellow
blossoms, like our own wild mountain furze, crown with a
meet and savage beauty the surrounding desolation.
“ Such, with an occasional tuft of wild mint or Indian
nettle, on the barer spots, is the covering which clothes the
sides of these mountains, and the little valleys into which
they decline ; but the summits are sheeted with masses of
black rock, interspersed with patches of grass, and fringed
with thorn and brushwood. There is no level ground to
the extent of a hundred yards ; it is one continued series of
hills and mountains, which either slope in gentle declivities
or break into abrupt chasms and dells, down which a
hundred little streams of the purest water find their way
into the hollows. In the distance are immense valleys,
from which a thousand ghauts are seen to emerge and swell
upon the eye, like a vast assemblage of pyramids and towers;
and beyond, on the extreme verge of the horizon, the view
is bounded by interminable ranges of high table land, or
scarped and castellated eminences, which frown in the
clouds like the walls and battlements of a giant city. The
stupendous extent and savage abruptness of outline which
distinguish this landscape give it a character of the most
stern and sublime grandeur. In such a scene you look in
vain for the wave of woodlands, the bower on the lake, and
all those softer combinations of natural beauty which press
upon the heart in solitude, and make it swell almost to
tears with a feeling of pensive pleasure. Here, on the
contrary, all is angular, naked, and severe ; and while the
contemplation of so much magnificence fills the beholder
with wonder, it can hardly fail to impress his mind with a
sensation little short of dread. During the south-west
monsoon, the whole atmosphere, from Ray-gurh to the
uttermost western range, is one continued sheet of fire and
water; and the falling of the torrents, the roaring of the
winds, and the crashing of the thunder among the hills,
produce a din so deafening and incessant as to affect the
hearing of the sojourner long afterwards :—
“ ‘. . . , . far along,
From peak to peak, tlie rattling crags among
Leaps the live thunder! not from one lone cloud,
But every mountain now hath found a tongue ;
And Ray-gurh answers through her misty shroud,
Back to the joyous Ghauts, who call to her aloud.’
“ This mountain fortress of Purtaubghur was built, or, at
leasi, occupied and enlarged by Seevajee, in the dawn of
his power; and, after the assassination of the Mahomedan
April 26, 187§.
197
April 26, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
general, Afzul, he buried the head of that ill-fated com¬
mander to the south of the entrance, erected over it an
additional tower, and connected this tower with the rest of
the fortification by an extensive curtain. To this fort,
moreover, he transferred the shrine of his household
goddess, Amba-baee, before whose image the lamp first lit
by him burns, as we have said, incessantly to this day,
and to whose altar his descendants, the Rajas of Sattara,
were accustomed to make a yearly pilgrimage, accom¬
panied by their whole court. If the native histories and
legends of Seeva.jee are to be believed, all the evils and
bloodshed which followed the rise of that robber-chief to
power, and the subsequent, predominance of the Mahratta
armies in India, were attributable to a series of visions,
in which the goddess aforesaid appeared to her votary,
urged him on to his first enterprise, and foretold his
success.
“ To return, however, to the late ex-Raja’s dabbling in
necromancy.
“Besides the very singular process of recalling the
spirits of the dead into the bodies of their living relatives,
there are among the Hindoos, as we have intimated before,
necromancers, who pretend to quite another power, namely,
that of raising up, by the force of Muntrus or spells, the
bodify appearance of the deceased, and making it speak.
“ One of these knowing, probably, the affection of the
ex-Raj a of Sattara for his former minister, Yitthul Punt,
and having, perhaps, heard also of the Waren, which pos¬
sessed his widow, and excited so much notice at court,
offered to call up the shade of Yitthul Punt himself before
the Raja. His offer was accepted, and he appears to have
succeeded, for a time at least, in deceiving all parties.
“ Into a room of the palace, assigned to him for his
operations, he introduced, in the dead of the night, and
after a long series of incantations, fumigations, and other
rites of necromantic magic, Govind Yitthul, the son of the
deceased minister, and told him to behold his father. The
young man looked, and saw before him, amidst a cloud of
incense, and faintly lit by a pale streak of moonlight that
fell slanting from a window above him, an aged form,
whose figure and dress exactly corresponded with that of
his father; and whether it was that the dooputta or
mantle, which the minister usually wore, shrouded his
countenance, or that the young man’s memory of his
parent’s features had waxed faint in the years which had
intervened since his death, or that his heated imagination
magnified a general resemblance into identity, or from all
these causes united, he became thoroughly convinced it
was the spirit of his father that stood before him.
“ The following brief dialogue took place between the
necromancer, Govind, and the supposed shade of the
minister, his father :—
“ Necromancer [addressing the shade]—Is this your son
Govind ?
“ Shade—It is my son.
“ Necromancer [addressing Govind]—Is this your father,
Vitthul Punt ?
“ Govind—It is my father.
“ Necromancer—Would you question him ? If so, pro¬
ceed.
“ Govind—How, father, did you die ?
“ Shade—This much I may reveal, my son, that I died
from poison ; but press me no further.
“ Govind—By whom, father, were you poisoned ?
“ Shade—Forbear, my son, this question ? I may not
reveal more; it would only produce calamity.
“ The Raja, also, attended by several of his courtiers,
came and saw the shade, and all were, for the moment,
satisfied it was, indeed, the former minister whose phantom
they beheld. The Raja addressed to him several ques¬
tions regarding past transactions. The replies, though
sometimes couched in the same tone of mystery by which
he had checked the curiosity of his son, evinced sufficient
acquaintance with the circumstances spoken of, and, with
the Raja’s secret councils, to remove all scepticism.
“After a short time the shade besought the necromancer
to suffer him to depart, and the latter, requesting all parties
to leave him alone with the spirit, proceeded, as was sup¬
posed, to perform the magic rites of Gutee or departure.
I In the course of an hour he came out of the room, and the
shade had disappeared. The attendants of the Raja had
remarked, as they looked at the minister’s form, that his
feet were contorted, and this served to crown their con¬
viction, and to impress their minds with awe; for the
Hindoos believe, that all devils and all phantoms sum¬
moned from the dead, according to their ideas, rank in
this class, have crooked feet, a notion curiously corre¬
sponding with the cloven foot of European demonology.
“ Subsequently, however, two different opinions were
formed of the transaction. The most numerous class,
including many Pundits, believed, and still believe, the
whole scene to have been real. One learned man quoted
it triumphantly to the writer of this paper as a proof of
the reality of magic. Others, more sceptical, have sup¬
posed that the necromancer- had got hold of some man
with deformed feet, who bore, perhaps, a general resem¬
blance to Yitthul Punt, and by an exact observance of cos¬
tume, and an able tutoring as to family affairs, and the
Raja’s transactions with the minister, both of which might,
without much difficulty, have been extracted by a skilful
I agent from the young man Govind himself, enabled him
| to personate the shade of the deceased.
“ According to the statement of the ex-Raja’s Moonshe,
it would seem the prince himself ultimately came over
to this opinion; for some time after the nocturnal scene,
he banished the necromancer from Sattara.
“ The recognition of personal identity in this case may
seem strange, but it has many parallels. An impostor
| who, in 1828, with the help of some papers which came
! into his possession, and aided by skilful assistants, per-
| sonated, at Poona, Govind Row Ghorpude, chief of Mood-
hoi, a prince who had been slain in the battle of Ashtee
several years before, was so successful that, besides many
I other parties, the brother of the deceased chief swore to
| his identity ; and what is still stranger, the widow of the
! chief also acknowledged him, resumed her bangles, or, in
other words, cast off her mourning weeds, and went to
| reside with him 1”
MOURNING FOR THE DEAD.
i Fool.—Good Madonna, give me leave to prove you a fool.
| Oliv.—Can you do it ?
| Fool.—Dexterously, good Madonna.
| Oliv.—Make your proof.
Fool—I must catechise you for it,-Madonna! good my mouse of virtue,
answer me.
Oliv.—Well, sir, for want of other idleness, I’ll bide your proof.
| Fool.—Good Madonna, why mourn’st thou ?
I Oliv.—Good fool, for my brother’s death.
| Fool.—I think his soul is in hell, Madonna.
Oliv.—I know his soul is in heaven, fool.
Fool.—Then more fool you, Madonna, to mourn for your brother’s soul being
in heaven.—Take away the fool, gentlemen.
Twelfth Night, Act 1, sc. 5.
| The clown in Twelfth Night deals a most absolutely crushing, because
logical, blow at the folly of mourning for the dead—a folly to which we
| are all, or nearly all, addicted, a folly above which only the superior
| mind can raise itself. To say as much is to fly audaciously in the face
1 of a wide-spread prejudice; I know it, but though this folly be a
i universal fact, it cannot lessen the greatness of the folly, for the fact of
| its folly, its puerility, its impiety, its gross selfishness, remains. Selfish¬
ness ! This is the key to the whole secret. Grief for the dead is solely,
wholly, and absolutely selfish, unless it arise from a belief that the
| departed soul is gone to endless punishment, and in this belief, thank
God, very few of us remain to-day. No philosopher, no sage of ancient
or modern time, has ever taught with more terseness, more point, more
| unanswerable logic, the folly, the impiety, the fault against the dead,
the fault to nature, the violation of reason, the gross selfishness in
| mourning for the dead, than Shakespeare has. To mourn for the dead
j proves in the mourner one of two things, a complete and absolute selfish¬
ness, for he mourns what he has lost, not what the dead has gained,
j over which did he truly love he would rejoice; or he shuts out heaven
from his creed, admits either annihilation or eternal punishment, thus
! desiring to retain for himself what God condemns to nothingness, or
| clinging to what God hates. To mourn for the dead, therefore, is either
to exhibit unusual selfishness or unworthy infidelity. There is no
i escape, they are rotten apples both, and we must choose. We mourn
because of our loss, or we mourn because of theirs—which is it? If
111 for our own sake we must admit the selfishness, if we believe that our
j | beloved dead are in heaven and yet mourn, we must be envious. Do
| i we grieve over our friend’s promotion, our brother’s advancement, our
| | mother’s, our child’s happiness ? There is no need to pause for a reply,
I (j our common nature gave it years ago—we do not; then why mourn
11 i because our friend, our brother, sister, child, or mother has attained a
| | blessedness which we hope through the same portals of death to achieve ?
—Charing Cross Magazine,
lf-&
THE SPIRITUALIST
April'26, 1878,
THE EETURN OF DR. SLADE TO BERLIN.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—We think of leaving here at the end of this week for
Berlin.
Dr. Slade’s health is poor, owing somewhat, I think, to
the climate, which now, at the change of the season, is very
trying to him.
Direct as before to the Kron Prinz Hotel.
J. Simmons.
St. Petersburg, April 15tb, 1878.
AN APPARITION SEEN BY LIEUT. GENERAL FYTOHE.
Lieut.-General Albert Fytche, C.S.I., of Pyrgo-park,
Havering-atte-Bower, records in his new book Burma, Past
and Present (0. Kegan, Paul and Co.), how he also is one
of the large number of witnesses who have seen the spirit of
a friend about the time that friend’s earthly body was dying
a long way off. He was at Maulmain at the time, and his
statement is—
“ I had an old schoolfellow, who was afterwards a college
friend, with whom I had lived in the closest intimacy. Years,
however, passed away without our seeing each other. One
morning I had just got out of bed, and was dressing myself,
when suddenly my old friend entered the room. I greeted
him warmly; told him to call for a cup of tea in the verandah,
and promised to be with him immediately. I dressed myself
in haste, and went out into the verandah, but found no one
there. I could not believe my eyes. I called to the sentry,
who was posted at the front of the house, but he had seen no
strange gentleman ... . A fortnight afterwards news arrived
that he had died, six hundred miles off, about the very time
I saw him at Maulmain.
CURIOUS EXPERIMENTS. j
The Christian World of last Friday contains the following j
paragraph:— j
“ W. S. Coop, of Tranmere, attributes the phenomena to S
the action of * unconscious sympathy.’ He says, ‘ My first |
experience some years since was with a Planchette. A friend j
and myself placed our finger upon the toy. When it indi- |
cated, by motion, that it was sufficiently charged, we put the f l
question, p Who made the world ?’ We were unanimous as j }
to what the answer should be, and therefore the instrument I <
wrote out the word, clearly and plainly, 1 God.’ This is an j
experiment easily made, and those who make it will find !
that if they do not agree with the opinions of those with j
whom they are operating, there will be more or less of inde- !
cision in the motion of the instrument. How do Spiritualists j
explain this? A friend, in the course of an experiment, |
placed one end of a piece of copper wire, of which he held f
the other, upon the thumb of a lady who had both her hands j
upon a Planchette, and when the writing was examined it i
was found to be in the usual hand of my friend. To an |
impartial mind this must speak much more strongly in i
favour of natural forces than of spiritual agencies.’ ”
Mrs. Corner, of St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney, London, I
can obtain the writing of any sentences she pleases but does i
not utter, when she touches the wrist or arm of her daughter, j
who is a writing medium. It would be interesting to know j)
the results of the latest experiments, also whether Mrs. j
Corner can get the sentences put down in her own hand- j
writing, and whether her influence will pass through metal | j
or wood in the manner mentioned by Mr. Coop. I j
Passed to Spirit Life:—On the 20th instant, at 30, Francis-street, j (
New Leeds, Leeds, Ann Erskine Lorraine, wife of George Thompson, Esq., i /
ex-M.P. for the Tower Hamlets. Aged 70 years. * I (
Lecture at St. George’s Hall.—"On Sunday next, at four o’clock, | /
a lecture will be delivered by Herr Christian Reimers, at St. George’s i <
Hall, Regent-street, London, on “ Twenty-five Years’ Experience of i )
Psychological Phenomena.” Syllabus: — Strange facts ; Stranger j I
theories; More difficult experiments; Faraday’s checking influence; j(
Further experiments in England; Suspicious interruption of a Seance ; \)
Swelling literature . of the subject; Dr. Carpenter’s Lecture on it
“ Epidemic Delusions ; ” Healthy reaction therefrom; More severity ||
in test arrangements; Strange reluctance of mediums to submit to i >
them ; Critical appliances to test alleged materialisation phenomena; i (
Extraordinary and conclusive results; Final separation of fact and |
illusion. i
REMARKABLE RESULTS OF ORIGINAL RESEARCH IN
SPIRITUALISM.
The next number of The Spiritualist will be of unusual
interest, and will be illustrated with diagrams and engrav¬
ings. The Research Committee of the British National
Association of Spiritualists has been trying experiments
with Mr. Williams, the medium, on a weighing machine,
while several kinds of manifestations have been going on,
and the details will be published in our next number. Self¬
registering apparatus was attached to the machine to record
the weight of the medium at every moment throughout each
entire seance, and the results are altogether new. No work
of so much value has been done in Spiritualism since the
most remarkable of the results obtained with Florence
Cook about three years ago. The revelations are most in¬
teresting and valuable. The whole of the next number of
The Spiritualist will be got up in such a way as to make it
of exceptional value to present to the outside public. As
the London season is just beginning, great good would be
done by the extensive circulation by Spiritualists of the
next number at the West End of town. This sTiould not be
left undone because of the action of the principle that
“ What is everybody’s business is nobody’s business.”
Those who will circulate the next number in large quan¬
tities, can have them at twelve shillings per hundred, by
ordering them at the branch office of The Spiritualist, in
Great Russell-street, London, not later than Wednesday
morning next, in order that a sufficient number may be
printed.
THE TWO ANGELS.
God called the nearest angels who dwell with him above;
The tenderest one was Pity, and the dearest one was Love.
“ Arise,” He said, “ my angels, a wail of woe and sin
Steals through the gates of heaven, and saddens all within.
“ My harps take up the mournful strain that from a lost world swells,
The smoke of torment clouds the light and blights the asphodels.
“ Fly downward to that under world, and on its souls of pain
Let Love drop smiles like sunshine, and Pity tears like rain.”
Two faces bowed before the Throne, veiled in their golden hair;
Four white wings lessened swiftly down the dark abyss of air.
The way was strange, the flight was long; at last the angels came
Where swung the lost and nether world, red-wrapped in rayless flame.
There Pity, shuddering, wept; but Love, with faith too strong for fear,
Took heart from God’s almightiness, and smiled a smile of cheer.
And lo 1 that tear of Pity quenched the flame whereon it fell,
And, with the sunshine of the smiles, hope entered into hell!
Two unveiled faces full of joy looked upward to the Throne,
Four white wings folded at the feet of Him who sat thereon.
And deeper than the sound of seas, more soft than falling flake,
Amid the hush of wing and song the Voice Eternal spake :
<( Welcome, my angels ! ye have brought a holier joy to heaven ;
Henceforth its sweetest song shall be the song of sin forgiven.”
J. G. Whittier.
Religious Mania.—At Brentford, on Saturday, Andrew Redrup
was charged under the following circumstances :—At midnight he was
seen standing in the road praying to God for pardon for people who
were sinners, and saying he saw blood in the sky, and he also saw
God Almighty and Jesus Christ. He also stated that the world was
coming to an end before half-past twelve o’clock that night. The
chairman said there was no offence in praying on Good Friday. TLe
constable said the man had had fits again on Saturday as he was being
brought to the court. They were praying fits. The chairman (to
prisoner) : aI am afraid you have been on the drink.” The prisoner :
“My master put me to work, and it is bad luck to go to work on Good
Friday.” Dr. Goodchild stated that he was of opinion that the
man was of unsound mind. The magistrates said they thought
they should send the prisoner to the workhouse, where he would be
looked after, for a few days. The prisoner (who is a man of repulsive
features) : “ I hope you won’t, gentlemen. They took me to.Hanwell,
but they would not admit me because I was not good-looking
enough.” The prisoner was ordered to be taken to the union.—Daily
Telegraph,
THE SPIRITUALIST
199
Apiml 2G 1878
The medical certificates against an alleged lunatic are in
force for seven days after they are signed, consequently Mrs.
Weldon could not appear at Bow-street last Saturday, without
being in danger of being locked up in a madhouse, the
certificates having been signed on the previous Monday. A
barrister consequently appeared for her on Saturday. The
following details of the proceedings at Bow-street are from
last Monday’s Daily Telegraph :— .
The further hearing of the charge of theft brought against Jean
Menier was appointed for Saturday afternoon, but on his being placed
in the dock, before Mr. Flowers, it was stated that Mrs. Weldon, the
prosecutrix, was not in attendance, steps having been taken to secure
her arrest as a lunatic.—The prisoner was charged with having stolen
a large quantity of furniture, wearing apparel, and jewellery from
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, during the absence of Mrs. Weldon
in France, and some of the property had been traced to apartments
taken by the prisoner in the Euston-road, while other articles were
found in a box at an hotel in Golden-square, where he had resided for
two nights. It was also proved that the prisoner had duplicate keys in
his possession which fitted the drawers and boxes from which some of
the things had been stolen. The inquiry was remanded, and Mr.
Flowers expressed his opinion that it was a case which the Treasury, in
the absence of a public prosecutor, ought to take in hand, as the lady
appeared to be quite helpless in the matter.—Mr. Macnamara now ap¬
peared for the prosecutor, and Mr. Besley for the prisoner.—Inspector
Kerley stated that Mr. Wontner had been instructed on the part of
the Crown to take up the prosecution, but he was unable to attend till
a later hour in the day.—Mr. Macnamara said that he had been in¬
structed by the solicitor of Mrs. Weldon to explain the extraordinary
circumstances which had transpired on the last examination, and which
would account for the lady’s absence that day. Shortly after her last
appearance at the court certain persons, upon the authority of a cer¬
tificate signed by two medical men, contrived to get access to the
residence of Mrs. Weldon, with the view of conveying her to a lunatic
asylum. No doubt there were many painful features in this case, and
probably this step had been sanctioned, if not directed, by Mr. Weldon,
her husband. It was, however, a totally illegal proceeding, and he held
in his hand an opinion given to that effect by one of the highest legal
authorities of the country. He also possessed two certificates from
medical gentlemen who had seen Mrs. Weldon so recently as yesterday ]) I
(Friday), and they had no doubt whatever of her sanity. It became j ( j
his duty, therefore, to appeal for the protection of the Court, and he I j j
was pleased to hear that Mr. St. John Wontner had been consulted in j) j
the matter by the Treasury, although he had not yet had any oppor- I ( i
tunity of conferring with that gentleman on the subject. He suggested j j j
that, in this present dilemma, it would be better to ask for another |) j
remand.—Mr. Besley observed that he should ask the magistrate not to | (|
allow the interference of the Treasury in this case, as it was not one out i j ]
of the ordinary course.—Mr. Flowers : But the Treasury have taken it in
up at my own request. How can I, then, ask them to withdraw from j (j
it ? Besides, it seems to me that if this lady is insane—and she certainly i) j
exhibited no sign or symptom of insanity when she was here last—it i (i
appears to me that the conduct of the prisoner is all the more repre- i i \
hensible.—Mr. Besley said his client did not believe her to be insane, i) j
but he sought to justify his conduct by certain letters of instruction j (j
which he had received from Mrs. Weldon, and some of which he begged j U
to hand up for %he inspection of the Court.—Eventually it was arranged I (!
that the prisoner should be remanded for another week, and Mr. ! ( |
Flowers, on the applicatipn of Mr. Besley, consented to accept sub- j (j
stantial bail. I ; j
The three madhouse people who came to take away Mrs. j (j
Weldon, last Monday week, belonged to the private lunatic i j
establishment of Dr. Llewellyn Stuart Winslow, popularly j I
known by the name of his deceased father, the eminent Dr.* j j |
Forbes Winslow. Mrs. Lowe, who called at Tavistock j) j
House, at the request of Mr. Harrison, who knew nothing j j
of madhouse people being there, entered just in time. Mrs. m
Weldon had barricaded herself in her room, and the keepers !) I
were in the passage. Mrs. Lowe explained the Act in that I !
case made and provided to the three keepers, who, not j (j
knowing how to deal with an accomplished lunacy lawyer in j) j
petticoats, felt the difficulty of the position, and left for j j
further instructions. Mrs. Lowe then induced Mrs. Weldon u j
to leave the house at once, and a few minutes afterwards m
Dr. Llewellyn Winslow came to the house to take her, but | \ \
he was too late. , in
Mrs. Weldon will, as before, conduct her own case against |);
Menier at Bow-street next Saturday (to-morrow) at twelve I (:
o’clock. | (|
On Wednesday evening next, at the soiree of the National Asso- || i
elation of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-street, London, the Rev. i) i
W. Stainton-Moses will give an address on ft Some of the Difficulties i) i
of Inquirers.” Members will do well to take this opportunity of js j
introducing inquiring friends, who will be able to state their diflfi- j> j
culties, or find them already met by the lecturer. h I
The Graphic last week published favourable notices of the poems of
Miss Ella Dietz and of those of Mr. Earle, B.A.
The Presidential Address of Mr. Serjeant Cox to the Psychological
Society has been re-published from these pages in The Harbinger of
Light, Melbourne.
The" Lord Lindsay is now President of the Royal Astronomical
Society, and will probably be elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in
June next.
The second subscription seance with Mr. W. Eglinton at the rooms
of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism will be held
on Wednesday, the 1st May, at eight o’clock.
Madame Leymarie writes that it is the intention of the managers
of the Revue, Spirite to open a reading room for Spiritualists in the
best quarter of Paris during the Great Exposition. Foreign societies
are requested to co-operate by supplying the Spiritualist journals
and other literature of their respective countries for the benefit of
the visitors, many of whom will, perhaps, thereby learn for the first
time what an extensive literature Spiritualism possesses.
A Question of Weight.—Last Sunday night the preacher of the
sermon at Christ Church, Folkestone, mooted an extraordinary problem
in relation to the words of Mary Magdalene at the sepulchre :—“ Sir, if
thou have borne Him hence, tell me where thou hast laid Him, and I
will take Him away.” The minister remarked that the weight of a full-
grown man, added to the weight of the irremovable resins and cloths
used in embalming was so great, that, had she found the corpse, she
could not have carried it, but her love made her forget all this. St.
John says (chap. xix. v. 39) that the weight of myrrh and aloes used in
embalming Him was one hundred pounds.
At the last soiree of the National Association of Spiritualists, there
was so much speaking, singing, and music, that some of those present
complained of the partial destruction of the social character of the
gathering by there being so little time for conversation. Yet several
persons who wished to make some kindly parting remarks about Dr.
Peebles were prohibited, including Miss Kislingbury, Mr. Morse, Mr.
Harrison, and several friends invited to speak by Mr. Fitz-Gerald;
consequently Dr. Peebles, who had been invited to attend, did not
hear the words of many who wished to bid him farewell.
The Graphic last week published an article on the obnoxious nature
of the two million mothers-in-law of the United Kingdom. As most of
these forced their daughters to marry from worldly motives and not
from love, and as the husbands, therefore, have little natural affinity
even for the wives, it is easy to see that, according to the laws of the
transmission of hereditary characteristics, the mothers-in-law are likely
to be specially objectionable.
Self-Sacrificing Spiritualists. — The Dalston] [Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism has the best and largest public lending
library of any organisation in connection with Spiritualism, chiefly
owing to the unceasing energy of its honorary secretary, Mr. Blyton,
who, in our opinion, has, in proportion to the means at his command,
done more self-sacrificing and continuous rational work for Spiritualism
for the past seven years than any other person whatever in the United
Kingdom. A remark like the preceding necessarily brings to mind a
dozen or eighteen other workers, whom we do not mention because of
the risk of omitting six out of the eighteen. In the past, Mr. Charles
White, of the Marylebone Society, has done much in proportion to the
means at his command, for the good done must be spiritually measured,
not by the absolute results, but by the self-sacrifice of the worker. In
some of the past years, although not at present, Mr. Blyton gave about
three days a week to Spiritualism, calculated by the amount of work done,
although he was fully engaged otherwise in his accountant’s occupation.
The Resurrection of the Dead.—“ One man at this election amused
me. He hung about outside my committee-room, and whenever he
saw me, he wrung my hand. On my first interview with this patriot,
he informed me, that at an early hour of the morning he had personated
Dr. Gumming, and had voted for me as that divine. Each time I saw
him, during the day, he said that he had been personating some one,
and always a clergyman. I remonstrated with him, but uselessly. He
had personating clergymen on the brain. A candidate knows very
little of the details of Ins election, but, so far as I could make out, dead
men played a very important part, on both sides, in this contest between
Lord George and me. No sooner were the booths open, than men, long
removed from party strife, rose from thei? graves, and hurriedly voted
either for him or for me. I wonder if this sort of thing goes on now in
large constituencies ?”—Truth, April 18th.
Sriritual Teachers.—An intelligent boy, living in one of the most
picturesque portions of the beautiful county of Kent, in the locality
immortalised by Ingoldsby, has made himself a local authority on the
subject of postage stamps, and for some time past has become the pos¬
sessor of many of those from foreign countries attached to letters
addressed to The Spiritualist office. He is also a practical and theo¬
retical authority on all matters connected with the trundling of a hoop.
Last Sunday we discovered that he had been selected by the ministry
to teach in a Sunday-school—to unfold to others younger than himself
the mysteries of creation, the designs of the Almighty, the career of
man in the world beyond the grave, the first principles of religion, and
other subjects entrusted to him by those who selected him to teach. At
the moment this is written he is training immortal souls in the funda¬
mental principles of religion and morality. How many of us, who have
had to weed out with pain and suffering the errors implanted in us in
infancy, received from a similar source what were said to he the primary
truths of religion? The lively proceedings of the youthful specimen
now under notice, whose cries of f‘Cock-a-doodle-doo!” in the back
garden rival those of the shrillest rooster, naturally raise the inquiry,
What are the necessary qualifications of a spiritual teacher?”
THE ATTEMPT TO LOCK UP MRS. WELDON IN
A MADHOUSE.
200
THE SPIftlTtTALlST.
April 26, 187&.
THE SHOPKEEPING MATERIALISM OF ENGLAND.
Heine, the poet, was for some time the correspondent of |
Augsburg Gazette. He always professed an intense dis¬
like to Englishmen, and the following passages about us, in j
one of his letters to the Gazette, although almost classic j
in Germany, have never been translated into English until j
they were given last week in Truth, thus :—
In genera], the English—may Heaven pardon me the sin |
—are antipathetical to me, and occasionally I carry this !
feeling so far as not to regard them as human beings, but ;
autpmatons — mere mechanical machines, set in motion |
by egotism, as by a spring. When in this humour, I seem
to hear the whirr of- the wheels, by means of which they
think, feel, calculate, and pray. Their prayers, their me¬
chanical devotion, their methodical attendance at church,
with a gilt Prayer Book under their arms, their absurd and
wearisome mode of spending their Sundays, their awkward j
and silly bigotry, are utterly repugnant to me. I am firmly j J
convinced that a swearing French trooper is a more pleasing j|
sight to the Divinity than a praying English shopkeeper. |
At other times, these English float before my brain under a j!
still more strange form—a procession of fantastic shadows, |;
a nation of lugubrious ghosts; and more terrible to me than 11
the pale phantoms of the midnight hour, is the aspect of J
these spectres, with red cheeks and broad backs, who appear 1
under the full blaze of the sun. Add to all this their want S
of all politeness. With their angular limbs and their stiff j
elbows, they come into collision with everything and every ]
one, without ever uttering an excuse. When I speak of the i
English, I am, perhaps, not quite impartial, and it is j j
possible that my unfavourable estimate of them, and my j J
aversion to them, arises from a sense of disquietude. Since 11
I have realised what impassable egotism is at the bottom of | j
their policy, they fill me with a superstitious terror. I | J
respect their superiority in all material things. They have j i
the brutal energy which formerly gave to the Romans the j |
Empire of the world, but to the rapacity of the wolves of j j
Rome they unite the cunning of the serpents of Carthage, j \
Against the first the world is armed, but against the mur- j j
derous stratagems of these Punicians of the North, we are j J
without defence. And more than ever England is to be h
dreaded whenever her commercial interests are endangered, j J
The entire creation contains no creature more inhuman than j j
a merchant whose commercial ventures are unsuccessful, or j j
a shopkeeper who fears that his customers will be faithless |
to him.
But are the English really clever politicians ? In what j
does their superiority consist ? In that they are archi- |
prosaic creatures; that they are never led into error by i
poetical illusions; that, blind to every ideal mirage, they fix I
their eyes steadily upon the real state of things; that |
they calculate with exactitude the conditions of time and |
place, and their calculations are never troubled by any j
generous thought. Yes, their superiority consists in absence j
of imagination. This defect is their strength, and is the j
principal reason why they succeed in political enterprises, |
as in material ones, such as in commerce and the construe- j
tion of machinery. They are not fanciful. This is their j
secret. Their poets are only brilliant exceptions to the I
general rule, and this is why they are ever at war with their j
countrymen, that nation of snub noses, low foreheads, and |
contracted heads, the elect of prose, who in Italy and in j
the Indies remain as prosaic, as cold, and as calculating as j
in that centre of their city, Threadneedle-street. The per- j
fume of the lotus intoxicates them as little as the flames of j
Vesuvius warm them. They drag their teapots up with |
them to the verge of the volcano, and drink their tea with a j
lugubrious seasoning of cant. j
I am told that Taglioni found few admirers in London, |
and in truth this is an evidence of her talent. Had she !
pleased the English, I should have commenced to doubt j
the poetry of her movements. The sons of Albion are |
themselves the worst dancers in the world, and Strauss has !
assured me that hardly one of them is able even to keep | J
time. Poor Strauss, he fell ill, when he had gazed upon j
the English dancing. These beings have no ear either for j j
measure, or for music in general, and this renders their | j
infatuation for the piano and singing all the more insup- !
portable. Nothing, indeed, is more horrible than English
! music, unless it be English painting. This nation, whose
f sense of hearing is so defective, is absolutely wanting in
| the sentiment of colour, and occasionally the suspicion
I lays hold of me, that they cannot even smell. What a
I people! With their eyes they fail to see, with their ears
| they fail to ear, and with their snub noses they fail to smell.
Even if Englishmen were individually brave, the mass of the
| nation must be collectively enervated by the habits of comfort,
j contracted during a period of peace, which has lasted above
i a hundred years. Yes, for more than one hundred years
I they have had no intestine war, and they have maintained
their foreign wars by means of mercenaries, who have been
recruited for money, and other nations whom they have sub¬
sidised. It would never occur to a London shopkeeper,
not even to the Lord Mayor, to risk his own life, in order
to defend the interests of his country. Owing to a pro-
I longed state of peace, the curse of too much wealth on one
side, and of too much poverty on the other, the political
corruption which is a consequence of their representative
■ Government, the enervating regime of manufacturers, too
intense a development of the commercial spirit, religious
| hypocrisy, and that pietism, which is a more pernicious
| narcotic than opium, the English have become as unwarlike
a nation as the Chinese, and England would be conquered
could an army of 100,000 men land on its shores.
A Photographic Mystery.—The following is extracted from the
Reading (United States) Eagle :—•“ The small shop at the south-west
corner of Ninth and Penn Streets is occupied by a German watch¬
maker, He has in his possession the photograph of a young lady who
formerly resided on North Ninth-street, this city. The most wonderful
and mysterious history is told concerning the picture. The young
lady, about nineteen years of age, was in excellent health, rosy-
cheeked, dark-eyed, and in the best of spirits, about five months ago.
She resolved to have her photograph taken, and went to the Reading
gallery. In the course of a few days she got the pictures and took
[ them home. What is said to have followed was told to an Eagle
■ reporter by the watchmaker this morning. She took her photographs
| home and showed one of them to a member of the family. The
mother examined the picture awhile, and then said in German, * Why,
this picture has a death’s head on it.’ She pointed to the tie worn
about the lady’s throat, and what looked like a skull was distinctly
seen on the picture, and it excited some curiosity. No attention was
paid to this, and a few days afterward one of her photographs was
looked at again, and to their great astonishment they discovered that
I the figure, or what greatly resembled it, of another skull had appeared
] "just above it. This was also pointed out to the young lady, and she
became deathly pale, and took to her bed. She slowly sank, and in
| two months after she had her pictures taken she was a corpse. The
■ reporter asked to see the photograph. It was shown. It represented
a stout, healthy, fresh, and prepossessing young lady. When she had
her picture taken she wore a rose at her throat. This flower was so
shaded that its picture really represents a skull. Below can be traced
with a magnifying glass the outlines of another strange-looking face.
I / i It is a strange' freak at best, and must be seen to be properly
| I understood and realised. It is stated that the young lady died from
I i fright.”
1(1 The Efficacy of Prayers to St. Antony of Padua.—The Tablet is
|| a well-edited Catholic journal, but are not the experiences of Augustus
Philip Bethell, “Tertiary of St. Francis,” a trifle absurd? The
| Tertiary resides in a villa at Sydenham. The other day he lost a rosary
! in his garden. It had been stolen by a vagrant. The Tertiary on this
| prayed St. Antony of Padua to “ get it back ” for him. The next day
| .back came the vagrant with the rosary. “ Those who are acquainted,”
continues the Tertiary, “ with the life of St. Antony will not be sur-
| prised to find that he can now do in Heaven what he could do on earth.”
| A novice had stolen from the saint a manuscript. The saint prayed that
I/j it might be returned. The prayer was granted. The novice related
i ji how he was just going to cross a bridge, when there suddenly rose up
| I before him a man of savage countenance barring the way, threatening
j him with a drawn sword, and sternly commanding him to restore the
jj book. If Angustus Philip Bethell, “Tertiary of St. Francis,’’ really
I) i possesses the power to induce St. Antony to cause to be restored lost
II articles, how invaluable he would be at Scotland-yard ? Why should
he not commence by insisting that “ a man with a savage countenance
! and a drawn sword” should “sternly command’’ the robber of Lady
i Dudley’s jewels to restore them to her ladyship, or bring back to me an
umbrella that I lost last week? “ The practice,’’ says the “ Tertiary,”
| “of invoking St. Antony is sure to supply a great want, and prove of
immense benefit to those who will adopt it; but,” he adds, ((they would
do well to begin by making a little offering to St. Antony’s new mission
at Anerly.” Hum ! It is not usual to pay the reward, in these cases,
| in advance. Now observe the strange no?i sequitur in the story of the
i Tertiary. He loses a rosary, of no intrinsic value, in his garden. It is
picked up by a vagrant. Two days afterwards the vagrant, finding the
rosary to be unsaleable, returns it to the owner in the hopes of a reward,
j During the intermediate day, the Tertiary prayed to St. Antony and ate
j his dinner. It is a mere assumption to say that the saint had more to
do with the return of the rosary than the dinner. Surely the Tablet
j would have been wiser not to have published the trashy communication
of the Tertiary.—Truth, April 18th,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
201
April 26, 1878.
THREE SILENCES. . j j
Three silences there are, the first of speech, j 11
The second of desire, the third of thought; , j,} j
This is the lore a Spanish monk, distraught m
With dreams and visions, was the first to teach. I (i
These- silences, commingling each with each, M !
Made up the perfect Silence, that he sought {i
And prayed for, and wherein at times he caught
Mysterious sounds from realms beyond our reach. ' I j I
Oh, Thou, whose daily life anticipates I (I
The life to come, and in whose thought and word
The spiritual world preponderates, ' j) |
Hermit of Amesbury ! thou too hast heard
Voices and melodies from beyond the gates, I j i
And speakest only when thy soul is stirred. j) j
Longfellow to Whittlei'. ! [!
CotteapmvDence.
{Oreat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed j) !
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; j) j
copies should be kept by the w?,iters.'} j) i
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY IN THE DARK. j) I
Sir,—To continue my record:— u
Leb. 4.—To-day we got no photograph, though throughout all the i > ]
preceding week we had never failed to get a good one, either of t|
“ Angela ” or of “ Glaucus,” singly, or of the two together, side by side. \ i
They appeared to have become so “ strong ” that it seemed to have been J) j
each time a sure thing, and with progressive improvement from day to day. j (j
The first jjose to-day, as usual, was for my mother, which was, as we nj
might have expected, again unsuccessful. The reason of the equal |) j
failure of the second pose seems to have been this (and there is instruc- j (!
tion in every one of these small particulars, and that is why I relate j j |
them). During the process of the first that of my mother, one of tl
us, holding a match in his hand, ready to relight the candle when the I \ j
signal should be given to “ recap ” the camera, happened by some j j
mechanical accident to light the match out of time. Within a fraction /1 j
of a second he blew it out. There was but a small flash of light for an H
immeasurable instant. We thought that it might, perhaps, suffice to j /
spoil the first pose, then about finishing. But it equally spoiled, or j (
prevented the success of the second one also. And it is the second one j j
which, through all the preceding week, had invariably and splendidly )
succeeded. The plate destined for the second one is always put
inside the cabinet to be “mesmerised” during the process of the first \
pose. This time the second pose was protracted for an unusual length )
of time ; but in vain. “ John King” afterwards wrote to the effect that
the flash of light had spoiled all by its startling effect on the spirits
materialising, and also that if the curtain had been open it might have |
been very dangerous to the medium. And that they would try again j (
to-morrow.
Feb. 5. — A remarkable picture to-day; time of pose about two j
minutes, as measured by my counting in the dark approximative seconds j (
on my fingers. The preceding pictures had been of about from half to j
two-thirds length on large plates; the faces, as determined by the focal | j
distance, being quite large. With a view of getting full lengths, as far | [
as we could do so in the sriiall room, we increased the distance by | '
requesting that the spirit form should stand at the very rear of the ! (
cabinet against the wall (instead of in front of it as before), and at the I \
corner, so as to get diagonal length for the focus. The result has been | (
a fine full-length of “ Angela.” No flowers this time, but her gold and ] (
turquoise cross appearing on her right arm a little below the elbow, j)
apparently bound round it by its fine chain. Full face, identical with ! I
that of her bust, and with the two faces which had preceded the bust ;
(the one to the mid-cheek, the other to behind the ears). The hair, j)
however, wholly different. The figure seems to rest mainly on the j |
perfectly modelled right leg, bare up to above the knee; the other i (
covered with drapery.* Both arms bare, but with this curious circum- ;)
stance. The right arm, hanging down, is evidently attached to the j
shoulder in just proportion and connection. The left one, bent hori- i j
zontally across the figure, is evidently detached (under the drapery) I /
from its socket in the shoulder. In a figure of natural size, its i (
upper part would be at least six inches vertically, detached from or | j
below its shoulder. Both arms are finely modelled, and terminate in i /
beautiful hands. The right foot rests flat and firm on the sole, and, j
with its ankle and toes, is finely formed. “ John King,” writing after- !
wards, explained about this left arm (evidently detached from its ! j
proper connection with the shoulder), that the materialising of the i
whole form had absorbed so much “power,” that they had not been j)
* The truth of it seems to be that the spirit form, materialised from the photographic
pose, floats erect, resting on air, or on nothing, just as did the horizontal full-length “ John
King,” as described in a preceding letter some couple of months ago. Our custom is that
before the photographic seance proper, the Count puts the camera at the exact proper focal
distance by making Mrs. ¥irman stand close in front of the curtain of the cabinet, with a candle
held up to her tace, so as to enable him- to catch the exact focus for that distance. "When
that is well obtained and secured, a folded shawl under her feet marks the spot on which
the materialised spirit is to stand for the same focus. This is the way in which the spirits
get focussed, at second hand, as it were. Now, when she is thus jwsecf, this time against
the wall, to establish the focus, her feet rested of course on the ground, or rather on the
mattress on which Firman himself was to lie when the seance should take place. His body
would then necessarily interpose between the camera and the feet and ankles of the
materialised form, if the latter occupied exactly the place marked out for it. Its feet and
ankles ought, therefore, to be invisible on the plate, being intercepted by Firman’s body
lying just in front of them. Either the light passed through his body thus interposed,
clothes and all, as though they were non-material, or non-existent; or the spirit “Angela,"
as above described, stood floating in air some six or eight inches above the mattress on
which the entranced Firman lay like a log, and on which Mr. Firman had stood for the
focussing. I find it easier to believe the latter to have been the case than the former.
“ Angela” floated and stood erect in air, just as “John King” floated horizontally in the
photograph before described to you.
able to hold the form entirely together long enough. It would seem
that though the left arm had fallen apart from the shoulder, they had
yet been able to hold it up in position, a little lower down than where
it ought to have been—long enough for it to impress the plate. The
point of disconnection is hidden with drapery. On former occasions,
before they had got strong enough to “ hold together,” we have had
figures strangely dismembered, with legs and arms scattered about as it
were, and sometimes no heads ! Disjecti membrapoetoe. Though thus
curiously defective, this picture, as a test proof, is perhaps more
interesting than if it bad been perfect, as probably another one will be.
The defect (covered with drapery, namely, the detachment of the upper
end of the left arm from its shoulder) does not strike the eye at the first
glance; it is only on a little further examination that it becomes
manifest. It is a pity that these successive and always varied
photographs could not be reproduced in engravings on your pages. Your
readers must be content with these poor descriptions of them. I hope
to be able to bring over to the Association some specimens of them.
Feb. 0.—Again to-day a splendid reproduction of the photograph of
yesterday. The same, but with variations in almost every detail.
These variations can only be appreciated on comparison of the two side
by side. Needless for me to specify them; the general statement should
suffice. Any gentleman or lady disposed to doubt, or desirous of
verifying, can come over to Paris, with a reasonable introduction to the
Count de Bullet, and see for themselves. In both these pictures the
graceful form floats erect in air, that is clear and certain. In that of
to-day there is a flower just under the foot, as though the foot rested
upon the flower and on nothing else. And it is the “Angela” of the
paraffin mould, and no mistake. As yet we have only seen these two
last photographs on the glass plates {cliches), not transferred to paper.
That of to-day seems to be the best yet obtained. The left arm is to-day
in its proper place in connection with its shoulder. No renewed attempt
was made to-day for a photograph of my mother; the whole “ power ”
was to be concentrated on “ Angela.” Before we began “ John King ”
asked whether we should like the same pose as that of yesterday? “ Yes,”
was the reply. Accordingly it is the same in general, though (I repeat)
in every detail different.
We are led to expect “ Alexandrine ” next. She wrote that as
“ Angela ” had now given so many, and was somewhat “ fatigued,” and
also “ had a great deal to do,” she thought that she (“Alexandrine”)
would try again to-morrow.
Feb. 7.—But it was not “Alexandrine” this morning. The whole
undivided effort was given to my mother, for whom the plate was
mesmerised beforehand, but again without success. This effort was
evidently prompted by deference to her wish and by kindness to me.
It is strange that some of the spirits cannot succeed, while others can.
I am sure that to-day (as they have before said they did, standing by
her side while she posed) they all did their best to help her—but in
vain. On what conditions do these differences depend? My mother,!
must say, seems to have always had less ufluidic strength” than the
others. “Angela” is the one who has been generally able to come the
oftenest, stay the longest, and come forward the furthest. She, too,
was the first to be able to dip into the paraffin. I was not at the seance
to-day, so that there was no disturbing influence (as before) from my
over-anxiety for success. Perhaps the over-anxiety may have existed
on her side, in reference to my getting her photograph before I leave.
“John King ” has more than once told us that it is very hard for them
to come down to our material plane; and he once illustrated his mean¬
ing by comparing it to a man going down into a deep well, where he
cannot himself breathe, and where a candle in his hand will go out.
My mother once wrote of herself (through Madame R ) that she
was not “a very high spiritbut “John King” speaks of her as
“very noble and very good,” and “Glaucus” once, in writing of her,
designated her by the name of “ Heavenmind." “ John King ”
evidently has a great deal to do with the operation of these spirits
getting materialised, but they would seem to need some personal
strength of their own to “ hold togetherf On the only occasion in
which any impression on the sensitised plate was produced by my
mother, he afterwards wrote that he “had got her beautifully formed,”
but that she “ melted away into clouds j” and the plate well justified
what he said. He added that he was sorry to present my mother
to me in <( such a dreadful predicament”—that is to say, all scattered
in “ clouds;” which clouds produced a corresponding photographic im¬
pression on the plate. At-the close of the seance “ John King” wrote
that he <(had tried very hard for Mrs. O'Sullivan's picture, but
somehow or other she did not seem to Itnoio what to do. We will suspend
it for a little while.”
February 9.—To-day a full length of “ Alexandrine,” standing on
nothing. Not a good picture, though some parts come out well. The
weather said not to be good. She afterwards wrote that she had
“moved,” but would try to do better on Monday; that it was some
time since she had posed, and that she got a little “ out of practice”
At the outset of the seance I thanked “ John King ” for his
effort for me of day before yesterday, even though it had been
unsuccessful, and asked what were the conditions which determined
success for some and failure for others—-“ was it over-anxiety on
her part ? ” “ It is not that alone, though she is very anxious
that you should receive her picture before you leave, and so
am I. There are other causes besides, but it icould take long to explain
them to you.” I said I should content myself with receiving it later,
and it was promised that it should be sent to me. One of our number
then asked if she would show in her picture as she was in this life.
“ I icill try to do so as much as I can,” was the reply, “but the higher
spirits rise on this side the less do they remain in face and features what
they were in the earth-life.” I remarked that I supposed that the
higher spiritualised beauty within translated itself, as an in-forming
influence, into higher types of exterior beauty. Apropos of which I
will mention that at one of the remarkable stances I held with Mr, Bell
202
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 26, 1878,
Hammann, in San .Francisco (see Spiritualist of March. 30th, 1877),
among the various spirits of old friends who wrote and signed their
names was one very familiar and dear, some forty to fifty years ago—
an old-maid housekeeper named Priscilla. Poor “ Prisey” as she
signed herself, was one of the “ugly ducks,” but I was sure she
became a swan in the spirit life. Especially she had the most awful
and double squint I ever saw. After writing several characteristic and
identifying things (I was to her still “JbAjmy,” and my mother she
referred to, as she invariably did in life, as 11 Mrs. whom she said
she “ still took care of,” adding, “ and 1 have a good deal of care to
take of you too”), she said, what I know must be true : “ I am as well¬
looking now as the rest; and, Johnny, I see straight noio.” What a
devoted creature she was, to he sure ! And her heart was one burning
coal of Love. If I ever get her photograph I am sure she will show
as beautiful now as “ Angela,” upon whose photograph a distinguished
painter recently remarked, “ What a fine picture of the Holy Virgin
could be made from that! ” I shall not, therefore, be surprised if the
photograph of my mother now should not be recognisable as a por¬
trait, though she was very beautiful in her youth and middle age;
(she died in her sixty-ninth year, after about fifteen years of great
suffering and helplessness). John King, however, says he will try to
preserve her features of the earth life as much as he can. When I
have seen her in the materialisations, it has only been in expression
and action, and in general form of face, that I could recognise her,
though once or twice, when brought within two or three inches of my
face, and shown by John King’s light, she was wonderfully like her
very self of earlier days.
We are led to expect a “surprise”, on Monday, 11th. It was to
have been given to-day, but John King said the weather was bad, and
that he wished not to fail. Something was said which will be very
curious, if it proves to have been a foreshadowing of the nature of the
“surprise.” It is not worth mentioning it now in advance.
Referring to jour editorial remarks about Dr. Monck’s splendid
materialisations, on page 67 of your number of February 8, under
the heading of “New Materialisation Phenomena,” allow me to
remind you that before I came into these seances the Count de Bullet
had witnessed as many as nine spirits at a single seance come forward
into the room, full-formed from head to foot, and these at one time,
and that the medium was also led forward by them. Also, I have
told you how we once had the curtain drawn aside, so as to show us
Firman asleep in an armchair, and two spirits on each side of him—
namely, Nathalie and Alexandrine on the one side, and my mother and
John King on the other—he parading his light in front of them all, so
as to show them all five at the same time. I have also fully met your
queries about the “ living flexible faces.” J. L. O'Sullivan.
2, .Rue Solferino, Paris.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN BIRMINGHAM. i
, Sir,—Some weeks ago we formed a psychological cii’de at the i
appended address, under the mediumship of Mr. John Summerfield, i
and, being an old reader of your valuable paper, I send you an account i (
of the results. I j
At our first sitting, the medium was controlled by a philosophic and | j
religious spirit, who made some appropriate remarks for the guidance j \
of the circle ; after which, a bell was taken from a shelf and rung over j (
the heads of the sitters ; the sitters were touched by materialised I )
hands, which seized the hands of some of the sitters, and took them up ] (
towards the ceiling, as far as they could reach. The guides then told j (
the sitters they would try to bring some flowers, which promise they ]
fulfilled, by importing a great variety of flowers in season. The sitters j (
felt the spirit hand placing the flowers between their fingers ; most of | )
the flowers were found to be wet.
At our next sitting, several attempts were made to lift the medium j <
on to the table 3 this, in a little time, they accomplished, and placed
him, chair and all, in the centre of the table. After a short time, a
chair was floated from the floor on to the table ; the chair and table,
by knocking, then beat time to the singing; afterwards the chair was
floated'back to the floor.
At our third sitting, Mr. Summerfield was floated from his seat,
over the table, over the heads of the sitters, and placed at the other
end of the room. After taking his seat again at the table, he was con¬
trolled ; a glass of water was fetched from the mantelshelf and held
to the medium’s lips. While he drank the water, all persons at the
table had their hands joined, including the medium.
On Monday evening last we met, according to arrangement, for
a flower test. According to instructions received from the guides of
the medium, a large covering in the shape of an inverted sack had been
provided, and suspended from the ceiling. After being thoroughly
searched, Mr. Summerfield was seated on a chair, the sack was drawn
over him, and the bottom of it nailed to the floor. After some
minutes, the control informed us that we might uncover the medium,
and, on doing so, we found the floor strewed with beautiful flowers.
The medium also was decorated with flowers ; some , had been placed
in the buttonholes of his coat, some on the top of his head, and other
parts of his body. After Mr. Summerfield became conscious, the
flowers were divided among the sitters, and a very impressive address
from the controlling spirit concluded the seance.
I may state that the above seance was held while the lamp was
burning in the room. John Colley, Sec,
312, Bridge-rstreet West, Birmingham, April 21st, 1878.
TEE ALLEGED MYSTICAL TODAS.
Sir,—I should be soiry to endorse Madame Blavahkj’s attacks on
science, or on those travesties of Christianity which she made the bases
of her assaults on it, on the assumption that they were its authorised
opinions; but I do think that she has fair ground of defence against
those who impugn her statements about the Todas, such instar omnium
as “ Late Madras C. S.”
He has evidently a thorough acquaintance with the region in which
those of whom she writes dwell, and where some of them do now
perhaps live ; but may we not accept what he says as true, and yet find
that she is correct in her statements also ?
Are there not Todas and Todas? Has he not confounded the
followers with their chiefs, the “ hewers of wood and drawers of water ”
with the “ chosen people?”
All he says refers possibly to the people whom I remember forty-three
years ago called Todas generically, the inhabitants of the table-land of
the Neilgherry hills, who, until they were accidentally discovered by the
. two tiger-hunting officers, were utterly unknown to the Indian Govern¬
ment, and who, stranger still, were equally ignorant of the people of the
country below their hills. But were these the class of whom Madame
Blavatsky writes, any more than an ordinary Hindoo is a Guru, an
unitiated Turk a high Dervish, a vassal of the olden time a Thane, or
the 11 pro-Fanum vulgus ” adepts in the Eleusinian mysteries ?
Accepting this view, we may well believe that, as she says, “ nobody
has ever seen more than five or six of them together; ” that “ they never
marry; ” that their Goparams and places of worship are “ most
splendidthat they have been “moving away to other parts as un¬
known and more inaccessible than the Neilgherry hills had formerly
been,” and so on.
Nothing in such statements is inconsistent with the interesting record
given by “Late Madras C. S.,” of his acquaintance with the ordinary
inhabitants of those hills; the essential facts do not contradict one
another. A. T. A.
April 22nd, 1878.
MISREPRESENTATIONS OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The following paragraph appears in the last number of
The Christian World:—
Mr. William Howitt, writing from Rome, says :—“ The editor of the
Spiritualist, commenting on my statement in the Christian World of
the direct expulsion of Christianity from the programme of the soi-
disant British National Association of Spiritualists, point blank denies
the fact. For more than half a century my name, writings, and cha¬
racter haye been familiarly before the public, and nothing is better
known than that I am not accustomed to state untruths. This hardy
and impudent assertion, of course resulting from the smart of my
exposure of the real condition of Spiritualism at present, and of the
character of the journal in question, can therefore only recoil on the
head of this editor. Any one turning to the pages of the Spiritual
Magazine of that time will find that in my assault on the shameful
programme of the Association, I took care to quote literally the very
words of the programme containing the express exclusion of Christianity
from their proclamation, and naming the person who had suggested the
insertion of this article, a very active medium and lecturer at the present
time. In a subsequent number of the same magazine I noted also the
erasure of the obnoxious article at a public meeting of the Association,
and that avowedly in consequence of my exposure. The thing wasn’t
done in a corner, and too many people are aware of it for it to be
lightly disproved. The editor proceeds to deny the wrangling character
of his journal. That is a point that any one can determine for himself
by reference to that publication. My great object has been to give a
prudent warning to inquirers into Spiritualism under • present condi¬
tions, and that, I think, I did effectually in my letter in the Christian
World of March 22 ; and there I leave the matter.”
It will be remembered that three weeks ago Mr. Howitt
told the readers of The Christian World that the National
Association of Spiritualists called upon its members to
renounce Christianity. This monstrous statement of his,
I j calculated to arouse wide-spread prejudice, was not true.
I | The two secretaries of the Association wrote to The Christian
| I World that there was no truth in the statement.
In the above paragraph Mr. Howitt now asserts that his
| | statement in The Christian World was that Christianity was
|) | expelled from the programme of the National Association,
111 but it is not true that this alone was his original statement.
His original printed and utterly unfounded statement was,
| I that the members of the Association were called upon to
I \ \ renounce Christianity.
Of course Christianity has no more business in the pro-
bj gramme of the National Association than it would have in
i j the programme of the Royal Institution ; both these
lU organisations have no desire to interfere with the freedom of
I) I religious opinion of their members.
j | But if any man persuaded hundreds of thousands of people
| | that the Royal Institution called upon its members to re-
j j nounce Christianity, when the Institution had never for a
] moment dreamt of doing anything of the kind, and if he
| J did not afterwards most thoroughly and unreservedly apologise
j for the false statement, his proper place in the social scale
| | would be understood if not expressed.
We have received letters on this subject, not compli-
! (i mentary to Mr. Ilowitt, but see no use in printing them.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
203
April 26, 1878.
Mr. Howitt’s statement is merely not true, and there is an
end of the matter. It is Mr. Howitt’s duty to withdraw it
entirely in the columns in which he made it, and to write an
apology to the National Association. There is no other
escape for him socially.
We have never felt anything but pleasure at anything
Mr. Howitt has printed about The Spiritualist, and decline
to be led away by him from the main issue, by talking about
any such trivial side question. For the last four years he
has again and again, amid our silence, abused en bloc the
most intellectual and honourable Spiritualists in this country,
and because he has done so on the ground of his own personal
and particular kind of Christianity, it may be worth while, at
last to stop him. Our Christianity is not that of Mr.
Howitt, which to us is heathenism; but, broadly speaking,
and with some exceptions, we accept the Christianity of
Mr. Haweis, and have no sympathy with iconoclastic
Spiritualists, who would tear down everything connected with
the culture and spirituality of past ages, as well as the
science of the present. Mr. Howitt has brought his gall and
venom to a maximum by telling in print hundreds of
thousands of persons that the National Association of
Spiritualists called upon its members to renounce Chris¬
tianity. Therein, our specially sanctified friend has uttered
a “ whopper” injurious to the public interests of Spiritualism,
and the question now is, in the words of the title of a novel,
if What mill he do with it?'1' In watching what he will do
with his Frankenstein, we intend to adhere to this vital and
important utterance just as pertinaciously as if it had been
spoken by the original Pecksniff, who unconsciously sat to
Charles Dickens for his portrait.
Body and Spirit.—Archie Campbell, the head of the Old Town
Guard of Edinburgh, was a somewhat remarkable man in his way.
His old mother died, and Archie, being well to do in money matters,
resolved to take her back to her native place in the Highlands, and did
so. Thinking it a great pity to be taking the hearse back to Edinburgh
empty, he thought of the plan of sending a few gallons of real small-still
smuggled whisky, which he could easily sell to the members of the
Town Council with a good profit. After his feelings of regret had got
somewhat blunted by years, he used to think it a great joke to say o’er
his toddy with some of his cronies—“ I took awa’ the body and brought
back the speerit.”—Dumfries Courier.
Oaths among Savages.—Among the Nomad races of the North, three
kinds of oath are said to be usual—the first and least solemn one being
for the accused to face the sun with a knife, pretending to fight against
it, and to cry aloud, “ If I am guilty, may the sun cause sickness to
rage in my body like this knife! ” The second form of oath is to cry
aloud from the tops of certain mountains, invoking death, loss of
children and cattle, or bad luck in hunting, in case of guilt being real.
But the most solemn oath of all is to exclaim, in drinking some of the
blood of a dog, killed expressly by the elders and burnt or thrown away,
“ If I die, may I perish, decay, or bum away like this dog.”* Very
similar is the oath in Sumatra, where, a beast having been slain, the
swearer says, “ If I break my oath, may I be slaughtered as this beast,
and swallowed as this heart I now consume.”t The most solemn oath
of the Bedouins, that of the cross-lines, is also characterised by the same
belief which appears in the case of the slain beast affecting with sym¬
pathetic decay the man guilty of perjury. If a Bedouin cannot convict
a man he suspects of theft, it is usual for him to take the suspected
before a sheikh or kady, and to call on him to swear any oath demanded
of him. If the defendant agrees, he is led to a certain distance from
the camp, “ because the magical nature of the oath might prove per¬
nicious to the general body of Arabs were it to take place in their
vicinity.” Then the plaintiff draws with his sekin, or crooked knife, a
large circle in the sand with many cross-lines inside it, places his right
foot inside it, causes the defendant to do the same, and makes him say
after himself, “ By God, and in God, and through God, I swear I did not
take the thing, nor is it iff my possession.” To make the oath still more
solemn, the accused often puts also in the circle an ant and a bit of
camel’s skin, the one expressive of a hope that he may never be desti¬
tute of camel’s milk, the other of a hope that he may never lack the
winter provision of an ant.J Firm, however, as is the savage belief
that the consequences of perjury are death or disease—a belief which
shows itself not unfrequently in actually inferring the fact of perjury
from the fact of death—escape from the obligation of an oath is not
unknown among savages. On the Guinea Coast recourse was had to
the common expedient of priestly absolution, so that when a man took a
draught-oath, imprecating death on himself if he failed in his promise,
the priests were sometimes compelled to take an oath too, to the effect
that they would not -employ their absolving powers to release him. In
Abyssinia a similar process seems to be in vogue ; for the king, on one
occasion having sworn by a cross, thus addressed his servants, “You
see the oath I have taken; I scrape it clean away from my tongue that
made it.” Thereupon he scraped his tongue and spat away his oath,
thus validly releasing himself from it. §— Gentleman's Magazine.
* Klemm iii. 68. f Wiittke, “ Geschichte cles Heidenthums," 103.
t Burckhardt, “ Notes on the Bedouins,” 73, § Latham, Descriptive Ethnology,” ii. 98.
WAR
“The powers that be” are trying hard to drag England into the
great crime of a war with Russia; nobody knows what about, so far as
ostensible reasons are concerned. The real reasons are that the non¬
productive classes have been long out of political power; they have
been checked in their old habit, as shown by the national statistics, of
increasing taxation, of involving England in wars, and of enlarging the
national debt. During their last lease of power they did much in this
way by bringing all the influence of a great nation to bear on King
Coffee, killing him, and bringing back to a majestic empire the umbrella
of the poor savage. Now, when they find Russia half bankrupt, and
exhausted by a war, they are very brave in bullying, especially as
Russia has no fleet to let it create in this country the criminal horrors
our Government is likely to inaugurate in other lands. The newspapers
never had such hard and prolonged work before to manufacture a war¬
feeling among the ignorant, to carry out the desires of a few military
and political men : but they, at last, have been more or less successful.
It would be well to pass some such resolution as the following, at
great public meetings held all over the country, and that, too, without
delay:—“That, while regretting that modern civilisation is not yet
sufficiently advanced to make the prohibition of all kinds of war
possible, this meeting regards any Government (the present one
included) which threatens to plunge this country into any aggressive
war on the mere speculation that it may prevent a future defensive
one, as the natural enemy of the British nation, and of all religion and
morality, consequently has no confidence in it whatever, and will exert
itself to the utmost to remove it from power.” If something like this
were passed at crowded meetings all over England within a few days, it
would disconcert military men out of work, political men who want to
largely tax the industrious for the benefit of a few of their friends,
newspaper men who are “ in the swim,” and other loafers about the
clubs, who are few in number, not of much importance in themselves,
but doing great harm, just as a farthing rushlight may fire a powder
magazine. The ingenuity of The Standard in getting out inflammatory
placards, and of the Daily Telegraph in supporting a Conservative
Government, in abusing Mr. Gladstone whose boots it recently licked,
and in supporting measures likely to result in the taxation and shooting
of many of its readers, shows the fearful ignorance of the populace,
who will have to suffer for their sins.
At present, beneficial reforms are out of the Government programme;
the taxation of the many, accompanied by expenditure among the few,
is going on vigorously, amid the cheers of the ignorant people who pay
the cost, and the general position is well summed up in the following
paragraph from a country newspaper :—“ Our spirited foreign policy is
costing money. The Government recently asked for an extra six
millions, and they got it, and have spent more than half of it. In
the Budget they have increased taxation by four and a half millions
sterling. The price of tobacco is raised owing to the higher duty;
the income tax is more than double what it was two years ago; the
dog license is raised, and there is a prospect of poverty among a
large number of families in which the bread-winner is in the reserves
now called out. We were promised a spirited foreign policy, and we
begin to see that it has its drawbacks.”
| The spirit of Benjamin Franklin materialised at a somce last evening
! sufficiently to say in a derisive tone of voice: “Yaas! you claim to
j have progressed, and you have entered on your second Centennial, and
! you havn’t hung an embezzler or an insurance wrecker yet.” And he
I snorted three times contemptuously, and floated through the stove-pipe
hole.—New York Graphic.
Spiritualists’ Meeting.— On Wednesday, last week, a meeting of
j Spiritualists, convened by Mr. Enmore Jones, was held at Grafton Hall,
i London. About eighty persons were present. Floral decorations orna¬
mented the platform, and some twenty or thirty alleged spirit drawings,
paintings, and photographs were on view. The Welsh national air,
I “ The Men of Harlech,” was played as the speakers and others came on
I the platform. The meeting was commenced by all joining in singing
“We praise Thee, 0 God” (Jackson). In the course of the evening,
1 | “ There are angels hovering round,” “ Sweet bye and bye,” and “ Thou
| j whose Almighty word,” were similarly rendered. The speakers were
i I Mr. J. Enmore Jones (who took the chair, as he had announced that he
> j would do), Mr. H. D. Jencken, Mr. Thomas Shorter, Mr. H. T. Hum-
! | phreys, Herr C. Reimers, Dr. Peebles, and Dr. Maurice Davies. On
i the platform were Katie and Maggie Fox (now Mr§. Jencken and Mrs.
| | Kane), the original mediums in whose father’s house the first manifesta-
( i tions of modern Spiritualism were given. During the speeches the
) I knockings were frequent and loud, and could be heard throughout the
( I hall; several of the flowers, as arranged on forms along the front of the
( j platform, were seen shaking vigorously, in consequence of the vibra-
) I tions. Mr. Jones explained that he wished to get up meetings in
i j which Spiritualist ministers and clergymen should take part. He
) | ascribed the thin attendance that night to the wet weather.
204
April 26, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
PSYCHOGRAPHY.
(From 11 Public Opinion,” April 2Qth.)
Psychography : A Treatise on one of the Objective Forms
of Psychic or Spiritual Phenomena. By u M.A. (Oxon).”
(W. H. Harrison.)—il M.A. (Oxon)” is well known as the
pseudonym of a learned man; and his object is to prove
that the class of psychic phenomena which is termed psycho¬
graphy, or abnormal writing, is due to the operation of a
force and of a governing intelligence external to a human
body. That force is conveniently called Psychic, and is,
according to him, identical with the Odic or Od force of
Reichenbach ; the nerve force or Aura of other writers ; the
Ectenic force of Thury; the Akasa of the Hindus; or,
comprehensively, Yital Force. He proposes the term
“ psychic” and its compounds to be applied to the force, the
channel through which it flows, and its various forms of
manifestation. This word, which is so much clearer than
the horrible and vague word “ medium”, will be probably
adopted by the psychologists who inquire into the genuine
phenomena. The first feature of the book which must
strike every reader is the rigorously logical manner in which
the author has marshalled all the scientific evidence which
he could bring to bear on the subject. He has taken as his
motto the words of Voltaire, in his Philosophical Dictionary,
which say that a testimony is sufficient when it rests on a
great number of sensible witnesses, who agree on having
seen clearly; who are sane, bodily and mentally; who are
impartial and disinterested; who unanimously agree; and
who solemnly certify to the fact. Such testimony is given
from the verbal and written statements of eminent judges,
journalists, magistrates, scientific men, conjurors, and gene¬
rally good witnesses as to the reality of the fact that, under
observed conditions, writing has appeared on slates and
other objects in the presence of Baron Guldenstubbe, Slade,
and Watkins (of Hew York). The imitation of these
phenomena by professional conjurors, either on the stage of
the public theatre or within the ranks of what has been
called “ Spiritualism,” has been proved to be of a different
nature to that evinced in the presence of the genuine
u psychic.” The thimble apparatus, the veneered slate, the
prepared message, all mark epochs in the series of mere
tricks which bear about as much resemblance to the original
as the penny telephone does to the genuine instrument.
. The careful exclusion of all doubtful or problematical cases,
and all records which proceed from ardent and superficial
observers or mere accomplices to a trick, will help scientific
men to solve the problem which has been declared worthy of
investigation by some of the most eminent physicists of the
age. The real objection which has led to the public igno¬
rance of the phenomena of psychography is the fancied
assumption that somebody (who is usually a psychic” of
ill-regulated mind, unacquainted with the value of meta¬
physical conceptions) is firmly convinced of the doctrine of
individual conscious immortality, and wishes to make him¬
self believe, or at least to make other folks believe, that the
genuine drivel which is often written under perfectly honest
conditions, proceeds from some disembodied spirit. Though
we are quite unable to divine what the author’s own opinion j
is on this subject, he gives us three theories which may j
account for the occurrence of genuine writing under abnormal
conditions, without having recourse to a supernatural theory, j
and so far complying with the creeds of large sections of |
Christendom as to
Keep the ghosts safe barred in purgatory,
as Dr. F. G. Lee expresses it, or lay them in the Red Sea
with Pharaoh and his 11 Mahedis.” But entirely en ecartant
the ghost theory, or that of the “ Spiritualists pur sang," j
there are hypotheses which have been advanced by Dr.
George Wyld, by Dr. Collyer, and by the Kabalists, each of j
which accounts for a portion of those facts which are genuine.
Such slate-writing as we have seen may be but the uncon¬
scious and feeble products of an untrained “ spirit,” and it
is suggested that these unconscious and unregulated psychic j
phenomena should be discouraged, and that the sure and
calculated efforts of a trained will should be substituted for
these feeble and uncertain results. The author, though he j
considers this claim coherent, is apparently inclined to
advocate another theory, though none more readily than j
himself would admit that no' “ all-round theory” would
explain all the phenomena. His style is eloquent, and parts
evince the highest forensic and didactic skill. Graceful and
forcible, he appeals to the common sense of his readers
rather than to their emotional attributes; and he points
out, in language which leaves nothing to be desired for its
lucidity and elegance, that a theory which shall cover all the
phenomena must be relegated to the day when psychology
shall have, by the careful accumulation of such facts as he
has collected and verified, risen to the rank of an exact
branch of anthropological science.
SIRE’S “ CHINA AND THE CHINESE.”
The following instance of a prophetic dream is quoted
from China and the Chinese, by H. C. Sirr, M.A. (Orr and
Co., 1849), Vol. I, p. 236
“ The interior of the island of Chusan is remarkably beau¬
tiful and picturesque, and no part is more beautiful than the
long valley, christened by Europeans 1 Anstruther’s Valley,’
as it was there that officer fell into the hands of the Chinese.
One of the most extraordinary circumstances connected with
Captain Anstruther’s capture is the following:—Those who
| believe in dreams, and that ‘ coming events cast their shadows
before,’ will, by this recital, have their belief strengthened.
| The night before the captain was missed, a brother officer,
i in passing near his tent, heard moans and suppressed groans
I of agony. Anstruther was awaked by his friend, who in¬
quired what was the matter; the reply was that he had
dreamed that the Chinese had surrounded him and made him
a prisoner whilst he was out making a survey. Anstruther
laughed^ thanked his friend for looking in to see what was
the matter, and wished him good night; his friend returned
the salutation, hied off to the mess to tell Anstruther’s dream*
and many a hearty guffaw was indulged in at the captain’s
vision.
“ The following day, the 16th of September, Captain
Anstruther went out to take a survey in the island, accom¬
panied by an old Lascar (who was the captain’s faithful ser¬
vant), both being, as usual, unarmed. Captain Anstruther
was taken prisoner by the Chinese, and the poor old faithful
Lascar was butchered before his master’s face.”
From the same book we learn that parents sell their
daughters as wives for material and social advantages, as
among people of fashion in England; but in China it is
done openly, without hypocrisy. A mandarin gives, some¬
times, six thousand taels for a wife; a tael is about six and
fourpence of our money. In the middle and lower classes,
the affair is managed in a business-like way—by instalments.
(c At first, what is termed the bargain-money is given—this
binds the parents of the female to dispose of her to no other
person; the presents are then stipulated for. When the
last instalment is paid, and the last gift received, then, and
not until then, is the bride transferred to her husband.” In
these trade marriages the principals have little to do with
the matter; sometimes they have not even seen each other,
but the relatives arrange the whole thing in the way they
think of most advantage to the family. Instead of sending
the young lady’s portrait to the swain, the mother of the
damsel, who is usually active in clinching the bargain, some¬
times sends him her shoe, to prove the abnormal smallness
of her feet. Chinese marriages being purely matters of
business, planned by relatives, and not matters of affection,
woman is in no rank regarded as the companion of man;
may never but once in her life—that is on her marriage day
—take a meal with him at the same table; and, in the lower
ranks, is treated much as a beast of burden. Very few
amongst the females, of even the highest rank, can read or
write. The higher-born are taught to sing a little, and to
accompany themselves on a three-stringed guitar; and,
being destitute of mental resources, fall early into habits of
betel-chewing, tobacco and opium smoking, gossiping, and
card-playing. Of the seven causes for which a marriage
may be dissolved, disobedience to the husband or his parent
is one; talkativeness is another.
The Earl and Countess of Caithness will return to London in a few
days’ time.
A letter from Hr. W. H. Terry, of Melbourne, dated Feb. 20th,
1878, informs us that Mr. and Mrs. Hai’dinge Britten were then at
Auckland, New Zealand, en route for Australia.
Apeil 26, 1878.
THE SPIEITTJALIST,
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Gcl.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of . Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
pubbshed to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yolk, crown 8vo., 15s.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
?s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 21s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the nudiumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
or his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES^OF NATURE, given inspiraut. n-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis,
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.”
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
I ' „ II.
„IH.
„ JV. „ .
„ Y. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Aratmla, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures .....
d.
5 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 8
3 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 0
3 6
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
2
3
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 2'i 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The SpiaiiUAixsi Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ' . . . . .. . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . is 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . , 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Antobiojxapliy, by Robert Dale Owen , 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to, India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Tito. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 fi
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.B. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
iilanation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
By Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 0
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original ,
Arabic, by George Sale . . _. .  10 0
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by tee Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Lz, Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of « priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and ’hose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.’’—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id, post free.
w, h. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
"EAYEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald, Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr. Bonghton, St. George’s-
road.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new hook by
“M.A. (OXON)," ON
P S Y C H O G R A P II Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
synopsis oe contents.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psycography in the Past: Guldenstnbbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences In Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
1.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King,’ Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Yon
Yay, G. H. Adshead,W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetlierbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II. —From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black- ■
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins) ;
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III. —From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Biake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.G.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—^Evidenceof
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C E.
Detonating Noises In Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London: W. H. HARRISON, 33, Great Russell-street.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post" free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful hook to place In public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writlng-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-medlumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treheme)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamant a’’—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Yision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burse—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D .—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci, Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies. D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “M.A, Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Yolci of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F. R.G. S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C. 
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may ho
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 /or Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities whore mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than la
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should he multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed, information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors.or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,”
IT
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 26, 1878.
A
NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATCTtE DEATH BY NATURAL MKAXS 
T ORD BEACONSFIELD justly stated the other.
day that “ the health of the people Is really the foundation
upon which ail their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
FNO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face,- Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Slomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
ipNO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ili-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.’’—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
‘(UNO'S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
SL “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
ONO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
. I li “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
"WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
TANG’S FRUIT SALT,
A-J AS A
GENERAL L iXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of finite from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
n which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.  
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the systefn, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus ot itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C.Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease :—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, 1 feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. —I am,
dear sir, yeurs respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett ”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
YNAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
'U Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
.MARK—Eno's Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
 Bold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Scle Agent for Paris— PH ARMACIE DE BERAL. 1 RUE DE
LA PAIX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE. LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON. , '
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. the Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the • Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the 1Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From’ The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves-the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); A.M. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume."
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself... . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself, some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea'; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a .handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.''
From The Bristol Daily Post. ^
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit..... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L 10. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good In their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in Itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of Ug
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many tiw.es over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appej.ed in the columns, of this paper a short time ago,
anl ivhich ci'eated such a furore at the time.” \N.B. An
irtjt member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
w. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price Ss. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State ot Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objecte: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—^Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S iiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—HisOdyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcrait, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, anti Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Oases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley's Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Oases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Rctrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Cler gy-
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Me
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Con cludirg
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr. London, and published by E. \v. Allen, a > e
Maria-lane, Loudon, E.C.
