Registered as a Newspaper.
GLfyt #I5jist |ttfas|japr ttmmdi:^ toiflr Spiriteslism in <§rai §rilain.
TH E SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : it, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 266. (Yol. XI.—No. 13.) LONDON: FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontents.
The 'Wave-Movement of New Ideas  ... ... 145
What is Death ?    145
A Very Strange Story 145
Mr. J. M. Peebles in Ceylon 146
Heaven. Given through the Mediumship of Lizzie
Doten. (Poetry.)   147
Continental Private Mediums. By P. ClavairozAnna
Ennemoser—Giacomo Lorbeer—Gottfried von Majer-
hofer    148
Death of One of the Davenport Brothers in Australia ... 150
Miss Wood's Mediumship   150
PoetrySoldier, Best—The Permanency of the Affec¬
tions—A Jeu de Mot, perhaps a Jeu d'Esprit—Hans
Christian Andersen   152
Correspondence:—Reincarnation—Problems—The Occa¬
sional Tricks of Sitters at Public Seances—Practical
Philosophy—The Effect of Light in Mesmerism 152
A Case of Imposture at Philadelphia ...   154
Witches and Other Night Fears     ... 155
Answers to Correspondents 156
Paragraphs:—The Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism, 147; The Brixton Psychological Society,
147; The Self-Education of Mediums, 147; Wealth,
147; Madame Blavatsky’s Book   161
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
PT1HE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;,His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, E.G-S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. IT.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. Wilham Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ^United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-ohurchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines,.and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor.G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio,. Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News-
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
PADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be
obtained speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7,30,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for September, 1877.
Wednesday, 5th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Saturday, 8th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 pm.
„ „ Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
Tuesday, l\th.—Finance Committee, at 6 p.ra.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, \Mh.—Seance Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, \5th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
Friday, 21s£.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, Tind.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
Wednesday, 28th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 28th.—Library Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 22th —Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
 E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
MR. J. J. MORSE’S BENEFIT SOIREE
Will he held at the
CAVENDISH ROOMS, MORTIMER STREET,
REGENT STREET, LONDON,
On Wednesday Evening, October 17th.
Tickets, 2s. 6d., with tea; and Is. after half-past seven.
They can he had of Mrs. Maltby, 16, Southampton-street,
Fitzroy-square, and at the doors on the evening of the
meeting.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
As exhibited at the Caxton celebration), is a self-inking one
and can easily b® worked by a child of ten. Its work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saving you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW
TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of printing
materials, specimens of type, &c., &c., post free 13 stamps.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co., Patentees.
Show Rooms :—18, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Price from £3 to £9 10s.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-huildings, Chaneery-lane, W.O
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
 FRANCIS RAYENSOROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of halms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.  
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff, Ad- .
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
P’R ■e1 q im? xr,p
HENRY D. JENCKEN,* ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association, for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton
Rooms—53, Sigdon Road, Dalston Lane, Dalston,
London, E.
(Close to Hackney Downs Station, Great Eastern Railway,
and five minutes’ walk of Hackney Station, North London
Railway.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are beld weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special stances with professional media, lectures, discus¬
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have-the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership .•—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a 'minimum donation of £2 2s.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hole at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the Duke’s Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d. •
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d.,paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, price 4d.
LAIRY0YANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
he had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
The soul, and how it found me ;
being a narrative of phenomena connected with the
production of England and Islam, by Edward Maitland.
Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. 28, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
OF
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, I, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Qerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tol.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. MakdougalJ, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, O. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. D., Bose-villa, Church-end, Einchlev.N. •
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, Sqpth Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo.,‘M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-vUla. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
BInney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., lateof H.M.S. “Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yaubrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.VV.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sir'awbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
V hite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, M l> Tlie Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq,, 1, Hereford-squaro, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Moreli Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or .Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan deRassim Pacha aBahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Yay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Yisconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Banca Fenzi, Florence, Italy,
err Constantin Delhaz, Singerstrasse No. 7, Vienna, Italy.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co'.,New Jersey, G.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimiile, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
BabooPearychandMittra, 7, Swallow-lade, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittlg, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
TV! .F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A. r
Mrs. J. M. Snear, 2210, Mount Vemon-strcet. Philadelphia,U.S-A.
J. II. Gledstanes;Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2. Rue de Rocrol. Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
I M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Unlon, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. HonOre, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr.Grurihut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Netrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
. J. W,. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Halfock, 54', Denbigh-street, Bel grave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 78, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratll, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-foad, Brixton, S.W. —
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Yisconde do Torres-Solanot.
SociedadEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarlta.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
p RANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
vX will be published as soon as Mrs. 'Weldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Da Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolnor, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Oh. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, marshall & Co.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: r an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish .Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS. FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer-
: cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London Spirit-
uali H Office.   .
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner lAfe; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London : Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
mHE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
J- describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.  
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fondS par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue do Lille. Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
.Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
Cl, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.  
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St Honord,
Paris, „ - * "  
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired)
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.O. 
MESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
71, Pocock-street, Blackfriars-road, London.
MR. J. HAWKINS, 11, Mount Pleasant,
East-road, City-road, Magnetic Healer, open to en¬
gagements to start seances and to develope mediums.
PSYCHOMETRY.—For delineation of cha-
racter and information on development consult (if by
letter enclose photo and 10s. 6d. as fee) Mr. J. Skipsey, Ash-
ington Colliery, near Morpeth, Northumberland.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER is about to form a
Spiritual Circle for the higher forms of mental mani¬
festations, to be held weekly,Jand the number of sitters limited.
Those who wish to join these regular seances are requested to
correspond with Mr. Fletcher, 2, Vemon-place, Bloomsbury,
W.C.
MR. J. COATES, the mesmerist, is about to
visit Ireland, calling at Belfast, Dublin, Cork, and
intermediate places en route. He will undertake the treat¬
ment of patients directly or under medical supervision; also
give sittings for the development of clairvoyance. Persons
desiring a visit will please write him at his address, 12, Lime-
street, Liverpool.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRIT-
UALISTS.
MUSICAL BOX.—A fine Musical Box,
eight-aired, and in good condition, to be RAFFLED
FOR. Thirty-two shares at half-a-crown each. A few shares
still to be disposed of. Application to be made at once to the
Secretary, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300for Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6d., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
YOB DISTBIBUTION AT PUBLIO MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
The food that we live on. in¬
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
PLANCHETTE, or the despair of
SCIENCE, by Epes SabGent. This book, by an author
of considerableability,givesa bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomena], Histosical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
% ipipiijb: xA Ip xJ nv& tA
Votuj^E Eleven. Kumber Thii^teejh.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28th, 1877.
THE WAVE-MOVEMENT OF NEW IDEAS.
New ideas move in waves. When they enter into the
world in advance of their time, they are now and again
driven back, to return with fresh strength. There has
recently been some recession in the wave of Spiritualism, in
consequence chiefly of the misconduct of certain physical
mediums in Europe and America;. some of them have im¬
posed upon the credulous by mixing the false with the true ;
others have turned gj exposers,” and presented genuine me-
diumship as conjuring; others, again, have given trouble by
their attacks upon their rivals out of jealousy. All these
things will lead to a much more stringent watch being kept
upon them in the future, and are bringing home to the
public knowledge that they are not the prophets of a latter
day dispensation, but mesmeric sensitives, who require
study of the same nature as that given to the condition of
irresponsible sensitives upon the platform of a “ biologist.”
In the middle of the present depression, we should be doubly
grateful to those physical mediums who, in the midst of
their trials and temptations, have not been guilty of mis¬
conduct.
But while the wave of Spiritualism is gathering fresh
strength for another rush, the wave of Mesmerism is in the
ascendant. “ Mesmerism is true, and we always said so,”
shout the orthodox men of science of to-day, oblivious that if j
further questioned they know nothing whatever about it, and
never made any attempt to learn. But while men of science j
own Mesmerism to be true, and Spiritualists and the public |
own it likewise, the older mesmerists, with the exception of j
Captain James, make no sign. Now is their time to come j
forward; now is the time to invite mesmeric lecturers to
speak from all our platforms, and now is the time to, above !
all, encourage the healing of diseases by psychological j
methods. The philosophy of mediumship will never be |
understood until Spiritualists by experiments at home, and j
by other means, gain a practical knowledge of the facts of j
Mesmerism; and mesmeric phenomena can just now be j
used with advantage to prepare the public mind more com- I
pletely for the phenomena of Spiritualism.
WHAT IS DEATH ?
The following is a communication from a spirit, given |
through the mediumship of the late Mrs. Juliette T. Burton:
We wish to speak of what you call death. This thing,
death, is the decay of corporeal substances, the transmuta¬
tion of the material into the elements of its origin.
When death came to me, as you call it, I found life hold¬
ing the light in reality to show death out, and I saw the
shroud thrown as a curtain to hide from the human sight
the back scenes of the grandest drama it is possible for the
economies of the universe to realise.
Life is the attendant of death, for as the forces of animal |
matter decay, the soul springs up from its ashes and plays j
in tune to a stronger pulsation than ever throbbed to music !
of arteries, vein, or cerebellum. When the rottenness of
decay, the effluvia from the surface of matter, arise in the
nostrils of friends waiting around the corpse, there is an
aromatic body gathered, out of which is shaped another order
of body. The substance only being removed, the shadow
comes, some say ; but we say the shadow is laid, and the
substance which is exuded is the real body, the interpreta¬
tion. The corona being laid low, out of it arises a corolla of
beauty, that stretches its aroma until it reaches immortal
height, breadth, and depth; and it is eternal.
When I died, and as I grew stronger, I saw the forms of
spirits about me; gradually I saw more clearly not only
forms, but the meaning of those forms, their corresponden¬
cies ; and not only their correspondencies, but their origin; i
not only their origin, but their causation and their attri¬
butes, consequences, and results. This happened in the
third quarter of thirty-six hours, and I was also aware of
the matter lying in stiff state, and saw tears, and heard
sighs, and groans, and moans, and prayers, and text; and I
witnessed the gradual decomposition, and for all that I was
mystified, and could not exactly solve what had happened to
me, and not until the full thirty-six hours had passed did I
realise that I had passed the transition state, that the butter¬
fly had left the chrysalis, and was free, light, and varied
from its old body only by its elasticity, all aching, and pain,
and heaving secretions gone.
I was emptied of corruption, was everlasting. My joints
seemed to sit in sockets that were as free to move as motes
in the sunbeam. I was uplifted from the corpus materia and
placed in spiritu untrammelled.
Judge Inckease Sumner.
A VERY STRANGE STORY.
The following circumstantial narrative was printed in the
early part of this year in The Religio-Philosophical Journal
I (Chicago), and other American periodicals, who claim it to
| have been taken from the St. Petersburg Medical Weekly
| Journal. Will M. Aksakof be kind enough to sift the story
to its roots, and let us know the result:—
Orenburg is a town of European Russia, situated in the
| Ural Mountains, near the Asiatic border. About a year ago
I Abraham Chorkov, a wealthy Jewish inhabitant of that
town, was lying dangerously sick with typhoid fever. On
| the 22nd day of September, at midnight, a crisis set in
which seemed to take a fatal course ; the man suffered and
struggled, and his physicians called it the agony of death.
A number of Jews were called in, prayers were offered, wax
candles were lighted, and behold ! the patient, who was sup-
| posed to be in the last stages, commenced to breathe freely,
opened his eyes, and looked with astonishment at the sur-
| rounding scene. But the sequel has no precedent. The man
| soon after fell into a sleep which the physician declared to
| be a healthy one. In the morning he awoke, saw wife and
children around him, who, partly in anguish and partly in
joy, were waiting for his awakening. His wife, overwhelmed
with joy, wanted to throw herself upon his neck, but by
signs he repelled her, and demanded something in a lan¬
guage which none of them understood.
It should be mentioned here that Abraham Chorkov is a
man of sallow appearance, tall and lean, looking like a
! genuine Russian Jew, with long black whiskers and beard,
| black eyes, and a long Oriental nose, and that before his
| sickness he understood no other languages than Hebrew and
| a little Russian, being one of those illiterate Jews found in
| such large numbers in that part of the world. Now the
| man began to speak in a language unintelligible to all
i around him. The physician who was summoned did not
j understand him. With contempt he pushed away his wife
| and children whenever they attempted to come near him, and
| the doctor gave it as his opinion that in consequence of the
I typhus the fellow had become insane. The despair of the
| family lasted for many days. His wife had, in the mean-
j time, sent to Tamboy for his parents, but on their arrival
| Abraham would not recognise them, did not understand
| their language, and appeared to be angry that no one under-
| stood him. After a week he rose from the bed, and his
! wife gave him his clothes as worn by him before his sickness,
j the usual habits of the Russian Jews. He examined them
| closely and laughed heartily. He wanted to run out, but the
| people quickly shut the doors, fearing he would take cold,
i He remained in the room, pacing it with meditation. Pass;
146
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 28, 1877.
ing a looking-glass he beheld his figure in it. He stopped
before the mirror amazed, touched his curls, his big nose, his
long beard, and burst out laughing, but then, all of a sudden,
became quiet and earnest and in deep meditation.
His wife and parents, who had witnessed this strange
behaviour, looked at each other with astonishment, and it
now appeared i to them that the man before them was not
their Abraham Chorkov, but a stranger. But Abraham’s
forehead bore still the black line with which he was born, so
that even the physicians who had attended on the patient for
nearly two months had to laugh at the idea.
Abraham Chorkov looked often out of the window, and
seemed surprised at the country about him, and one day he
made strong efforts to run away. The family now decided
to call in the Government physician and other doctors, who,
after a careful examination, pronounced him thoroughly sane.
Although they did not understand the tongue in which he
spoke, they recognised it as a regular language, well articu¬
lated. Thinking that he could make himself understood in
writing, Abraham wrote a few lines on a piece of paper,
which the physician read, but without comprehending their
meaning. The writing is in a plain, good hand, in Latin
letters, but the language was unintelligible to all, and no
one could make out how Abraham Chorkov came to use
Latin characters.
So things went an until it was agreed to take Abraham to
St. Petersburg to the medical university, to hear the opinion
of the prominent scholars. As soon as Professor Orlow
heard the language of Abraham he recognised it forthwith
as English. Abraham expressed immense pleasure at being
enabled to make himself understood, and, after some con¬
versation, Professor Orlow pronounced Abraham to be a very
intelligent Englishman.
“ But, for God’s sake ! ” cried his wife, (c how does my
husband come to be English, and how did he forget his
Hebrew language ? ”
Professor Orlow listened with astonishment to the story of
Abraham’s life, and would not believe that he had been a
common illiterate Russian Jew. He asked Abraham in
English who he was and whence he came, and Abraham
replied in the same language, “ lam from British Columbia,
in North America; my native town is New Westminster. I
have there a wife and one child living, and God only knows
how I came here, or to this woman.”
It is easy to imagine the great amazement on all sides.
The Professor declared the parties to be frauds, or that a man
abduction had taken place. He called upon the Government
to have the matter investigated, and the family physician of
Abraham,his neighbours, and others were officially examined, j
the examination lasting for weeks. But nothing came of the j
examination, the matter remained as deep a mystery as ever,
and the physicians contented themselves with declaring it
to be a psychological puzzle, a revelation of the human soul
which could not be explained. Abraham told the Professor
that although his name is Abraham, it is not Abraham Chor¬
kov, but Abraham Durham, and that he had no other desire
than to go back to his family.
One morning, when his wife arose, she found his place !
empty:—he had disappeared. The marvellous story soon J
reached the ears of the Russian Emperor, who forthwith (
ordered diligent search to be made after the lost one; but all <
of no avail, the man could not be found; and at last it was j
generally believed that he had been insane, and in his in- <
sanity had sought his death in the river Neva.
In the spring of the year 1875, Professor Orlow, of St.
Petersburg, visited Philadelphia, at the request of his
Government, to arrange the preliminaries of the Russian
department of the Centennial Exhibition. One day, reading
a newspaper, the following arrested his attention :—
“ In New Westminster an occurrence recently took place j
which caused great sensation throughout the whole territory j
of British Columbia. On the 22nd day of September, 1874, j
a fur dealer of said city, was in a dying condition, suffer- j
ing from typhoid fever, and no one, not even his physicians, ||
seemed to entertain any hope as to the possibility of his re- j
covery. Nevertheless the patient rallied and fully recovered. |
But, wonderful to relate, the patient, who was an intelligent j
Englishman, had forgotten his mother tongue, and speaks a j<
language which is understood by no one around him, but B
which at last is recognised by an inhabitant of this city to be
a jargon of bad Jewish-German. The patient, a short stout
fellow, refuses to recognise his wife and child, but insists
that he has a wife and child somewhere else. The man is
believed to be insane. All at once a European traveller
arrives, marked with a genuine Hebrew face, and claims to
be the husband of the wife of the fur dealer. He speaks to
the woman in the same language her husband was wont to
speak to her ; he gives her, and even his parents who reside
in said city, but who, of course, do not recognise him as their
son, the most detailed and minutest description of bygone
events, and insists upon being the woman’s husband and the
parents’ son. The poor woman is almost in peril of her
reason by the effect of the trying ordeal. She incessantly
asks, ‘ Who is this fellow ? How does he come to claim to
be my husband ?’ When she hears him speak and does not
look at his figure, she is ready to think that he is her hus¬
band ; but as soon as she looks at him the spell is broken,
for, surely, this stranger with the Jewish face cannot be her
husband whom she had just nursed in his sickness. But the
man continues to press his claim, and tells her the most
secret and delicate facts, evidently known only to husband
and wife.”
Professor Orlow now recollected all about the occurrences
last fall, and to solve this “ psychological phenomenon ” he
decided upon going to New Westminster. To his great sur¬
prise he really found there the same black Abraham whom
half a year ago he had seen at St. Petersburg. He asked
the blonde fur dealer in the Russian language whence he
came, and was answered, r From Orenburgand when
asked for the name of his wife, he gave the name of a
Jewish woman who had called upon him with her husband,
now before him, in St. Petersburg. When asked what his
name was, he answered, “ They call me here Abraham Dur¬
ham, but my right name is Abraham Chorkov.”
Professor Orlow was struck with a strange idea. He
reasoned in this way: A man abduction could not have
taken place; the bodies have not been changed; one is
short, stout, and blonde, the other thin, long and dark; and
then New Westminster is 2,000 German miles away from
Orenburg. Metempsychosis must have taken place.
It must be remembered that on the 22nd day of Septem¬
ber, at the midnight hour, both were lying between life and
death, the soul of each one must have flown into the body
of the other, and thus a complete metempsychosis has taken
place; that at the midnight hour of the 22nd September
begins the shortening of the days; that the inhabitants of
the two cities are antecians—that is, if a spike were driven
through the centre of the globe, entering at Orenburg, it
would come out at New Westminster, and that when, at
Orenburg, it is 12 o’clock at midnight, the time in New
Westminster is just 12 o’clock noon.
Prominent men of science are now occupied with this
most marvellous occurrence. Professor Orlow has taken the
blonde fur dealer with him to St. Petersburg, whither the
woman Chorkov of Orenburg will also be brought, and fur¬
ther developments are now expected.
MB. J. M. PEEBLES IN CEYLON.
Mr. J. M. Pebbles, formerly American Consul at Trebizond, and
who is now making his second tour round the world to observe the
progress of Spiritualism in various countries, was recently announced
by the Harbinger of Light to have left Australia, but that journal
strangely omitted to tell its readers where had gone to. The Banner
of Light, received by last mail, says :—
Mr. J. M. Peebles has finished his work in Australia, and departed
for Ceylon per Peninsular and Oriental Company’s steamship Bengalese.
We are indeed pleased to learn that Mr. Peebles’s stay in the island-
continent was marked by a continued ovation, crowded houses being
drawn by his discourses, and that his arguments received good treat¬
ment at the hands of the local press. At the close of his four months’
lecture course a large audience of over two thousand persons assembled
July 1st at the Opera House, Melbourne, where an address to him was
presented by the committee, and a purse of gold containing upward of
one hundred pounds, a large number of valuable books, an album well
stocked with friendly faces, a watch and chain, an elegant dressing-
gown, and other presents were given him. The Children’s Progressive
Lyceum also presented him with an address; both this and the one from
the society are beautifully engrossed and illuminated.
The following are extracts from the address read to Mr, Peebles in
Sept. 28, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST*
147
the Opera House, Melbourne, Australia, at the conclusion of his last
lecture :—
“ In again welcoming you to this city we avowed ourselves assured
of the progress made since your previous visit. . . . Interested and
enlightened audiences have crowded this great building on every
occasion of your appearance ; the sectarian press has been almost just,
and its secular contemporaries even generous ; the pulpit itself bore its
deprivations quietly, while the character and conduct of the meetings
have been invariably favourable.
“Aware that to your eloquence and earnestness this signal triumph is
due, we desire to add to the unreserved commendation of the public,
thus decidedly expressed, the more familiar tribute of our sincere and
unanimous thanks.
“Your wide experience of many lands, your geniality and social
qualities, have contributed in no small degree to extend the respect
accorded to your unblemished character for integrity and purity of life
and purpose  The reward you have sought and so well won in
the intellectual and moral culture of your listeners, will, in its enduring
effects, remain a living monument to your memory 
“In leaving, you resume the pilgrim’s staff, and sow on other shores
such seeds as you have plentifully scattered here.”
After visiting Ceylon Mr. Peebles will go to Madras in India, and
thence back into the interior to see the Fakirs and wonder-workers.
Mr. Edward Maitland has recorded some of his psychological ex¬
periences in a book entitled The Soul, and How it Found Me, published j
to-day.
Mr. Charles Foster, the celebrated American medium, contemplates |
visiting England, and his powers are said to be so strong that they j
cannot be neutralised by any amount of opposition or scepticism. His
presence in this country would be very useful to the movement.
To scepticism we owe that spirit of inquiry which during the last two
centuries has gradually encroached on every possible subject; has
reformed every department of practical and speculative knowledge ; has
awakened the authority of the privileged classes, and thus placed liberty
on a surer foundation; has chastised the despotism of princes, and has
even diminished the prejudices of the clergy.—Buckle.
Dalston Association oe Inquirers into Spiritualism. — Next j
Monday evening, the 1st proximo, the septennial anniversary meeting of
this Association will take place at the Association’s Booms, 53, Sigdon-
road, Dalston-lane, London, E. The hour of assembling is fixed for
seven o’clock, the chair to be taken at eight, which will afford an oppor¬
tunity for inspection of photographs and other objects of interest prior to j
opening of the proceedings of the evening. The programme will com¬
prise a few short congratulatory addresses, vocal and instrumental
music, recitations, readings, and character sketches, contributed by
members and friends of the Association. Members who have not already
expressed their willingness to take an active part in the proceedings, but
are kindly prepared to do so, are requested to communicate particulars to
the hon. secretary on or before the evening of the meeting. An inspira¬
tional discourse was delivered by Mr. W. J. Colville, hon. member, at
the Association’s Rooms, on Thursday evening last week; Mr. G-. R.
Tapp presided. The subject of the discourse chosen by the audience
was “ What Evidence can be adduced that the Phenomena of Spiritualism
are produced by Disembodied Human Spirits?” The discourse was
listened to with marked attention, and after an impromptu poem had
been given upon a subject also chosen by the audience, a cordial vote of
thanks to Mr. Colville for his welcome services was proposed by Mr. R.
A. March, seconded by Mr. F. M. Parkes, and carried unanimously.
The Brixton Psychological Society.—On Wednesday, September
19th, the first discussion meeting of this society since the vacation took
place at their head-quarters, 6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton,
London, under the presidency of Mr. Desmond G-. Fitz-Gerald. Besides
a good attendance of members, several visitors were present, including
Mr. Thos. Blyton, secretary of the Dalston Association, and Captain E.
Corner. The subject was, “ Should Cabinets and Dark Seances be
given up by Spiritualists ? ” After a few remarks from the chairman,
insisting upon the importance of this question, and of the issues
involved in it, Mr. G. R. Tapp argued—1st. That the real question
before Spiritualists is, “ Can cabinets and dark seances be dispensed
with ? ” and, secondly, that if materialisations be desired, it appears at
the present time absolutely necessary that dark stances, or some kind
of arrangement constituting a cabinet, should to some extent be
employed. On the other side it was attempted to be shown that
materialisations sometimes take [place in the broad light; but the
“ghosts’’ which in all ages certain observers have testified to seeing
frequently in the clear moonlight, and sometimes in the daylight, may
not really have been materialisations at all, the observers being simply
clairvoyants. The speaker (Mr. Tapp) remembered no case within,
or even—he thought he might say—outside of his own experience, in
which a form became materialised without at least some preliminary
darkness more or less complete; in fact the vibrations which constituted
light seemed to make the process of materialisation almost, if not quite,
impossible, although the form, when completed, might for some time
withstand the action of light. The other speakers, including Mr. J.
W. Gray, Mr. E. P. Ashton, Mr. T. Blyton, and Mr. F. Barrett,
generally concurred in the above view; but the latter speaker urged
that endeavours should be made to dispense, if possible, with darkness
and cabinets. Mr. Gray insisted that it was quite possible to make
arrangements to secure conclusive evidence of phenomena, which
perhaps may of necessity occur only in the absence of light. The
opinion of the meeting being taken by a show of hands, it was resolved
—1st, that it' is inexpedient at the present moment that dark seances
and cabinets should be wholly relinquished by Spiritualists ; and 2ndly,
that nevertheless efforts should be made gradually to dispense with
tihem if possible.—Emily G. Fitz-Gerald, Hon. Assist, Sec,
HEAVEN.
GIVEN THROUGH THE TRANCE MEDIUMSHIP OF LIZZIE DOTEN.
Oh, where is heaven ? Is it far away,
Where our loved ones dwell in eternal day—
Where the song of birds through the forest rings,
As they flash in the light with their golden wings—
Where the bright, green plains are by angels trod,
And the flowers bloom fair in the smile of God ?
Shall we look for those happy homes on high,
’Mid those shining worlds of the azure sky—
When the night comes forth with her starry wings—
When her smile of beauty o’er earth she flings—
Can we look from this world of grief and care,
And feel that our loved and lost are there ?
Oh, what is heaven ? Is its fulness of peace,
Where the cares of the world and its troubles cease—
Where the spirit floats in its gladness, free
From the fetters of death and mortality—
Where the forms of those whom we loved are near—
And their gentle voices shall greet our ear ?
Will shadows ne’er come o’er the face of day P
Will the moon ne’er shine with her silver ray ?
And the music that floats o’er the crystal sea,
Ne’er lose the charm of its melody 1
Shall we ne’er grow cold at the icy breath
And the chilling touch of the hand of death P
There were those who went forth in their hour of bloom,
At the call of death, to the silent tomb ;
The young and the gentle, the brave and gay,
Like the flowers of summer they faded away ;
And oh! it was hard—it was hard to part,
For love is the life of the human heart.
Oh, when we go forth from this world of ours,
From its sunny hills and its leafy bowers,
When our spirits shall rise to that better world,
Where the banner of life is for ever unfurled,
Shall we find them there in that home above,
With their gentle smiles and their eyes of love ?
Oh, no human footstep has ever been
Through the silent valley that lies between;
Its songs of gladness we scarce can hear,
They fall so soft on the human ear;
But we know that world is all bright and fair,
For the home of Eternal Love is there!
Banner of Light,
The Self-Education of Mediums.—Mr. John Wetherbee says in The
Banner of Light:—“I am always glad when I hear an inspirational
speaker give evidence that he studies to keep up with the education of
the times, so many are indolent, and their eloquent loquacity needs the
sediment of thought that study alone gives. The influence of bright
spirits illuminates a speaker; but the speaker himself has his work and
study to do, or his flowing words are milk without any cream. The
illuminated student never has to repeat himself. Theodore Parker, who
was a first-class medium without knowing it, had no fellow to exchange
with, hence preached every Sunday for fifteen or twenty years to the
same audience, and did not then exhaust himself into thinness. I think
there are but few of our speakers who could do that.”
Wealth.—What is money? Look at it; little circular pieces of
dingy copper, or shining silver, or gaudy gold. Can we eat it ? or
drink it ? or make a garment of it ? or warm ourselves at its glitter ? g
No, a handful of stones picked up by the wayside would answer these
purposes just as well. No, it is hard and cold as the hearts of those
who heap it up merely to gaze upon it, and count it in secret, day by day,
without a thought of making one fellow-creature the happier for all
their hoard. Money lying idle is like man lying idle—lumber, only
lumber. But now let us look around and see what it can do when sent
forth to work at the bidding of man, and we shall acknowledge a mighty
magician; for who can count the good and pleasant shapes in which it
will return to its owners ? Food and raiment, fire and medicine, books,
houses, horses, cattle, schools, ships, railroads, pictures, music, parks,
gardens, museums ; all that may help us to climb the hill of progress,
to adorn this beautiful earth, or to multiply the graces of life. Money
bears the good tidings of the gospel message over land and sea, to
soften savage hearts, and draw closer the bonds of universal brother¬
hood. Money feeds the hungry, clothes the naked, heals the sick, strikes
the fetters from the limbs of the slave. Money is knowledge, power,
freedom, beauty. Why, then, does St. Paul tell us that the love of
money is the root of all evil ? Alas! the reason is not far to seek.
Turn your eyes from the sunny side of the mighty magician, and see the
mighty shadow he casts upon the earth. Once more money has gone
forth on man’s errand, and what are its transformations now? War,
conquest, bloodshed, oppression, slavery, the gaming-table, the betting¬
ring, drunkenness, and all their ghastly train. Behold it in the garb of
the serpent, tempting the housebreaker and the murderer to their deadly
deeds, lighting the gin-palace in the city, filling the village ale-house,
emptying the home fireside. Behold it severing the dearest ties of
kindred and friendship, listen to it whispering the voter to betray a
public, trust, watch it luring men and women into unhallowed marriages
wherein love has no part.—Leisure Hour,
148
THE SPIRITUALIST.
ISept. 28, 1877.
CONTINENTAL PRIVATE MEDIUMS.
BY F. CLAVAIROZ.
Since the raps in the presence of the Fox sisters have |
drawn attention to the phenomena of Spiritualism, thousands
of mediums have appeared upon this new field, and occur- 1
rences of the most extraordinary nature have disturbed fixed
ideas. Laws unknown to science have been revealed, modi- j
fyingwhat had previously passed for truth. This sudden
irruption of soul into a world which delighted in the thought
of there being nothing but blind forces, this light from God j
traversing the darkness into which the savdns had plunged |
humanity, created great confusion at the outset, but gave j
also infinite comfort. Honest and sincere souls, suffering
from doubt, have welcomed with hopeful tears this blessed
ray shining upon their sorrows; others, more cautious, have j
confessed, with ineffable satisfaction, that the proof of |
immortality is taking so decided a character that it is
gradually becoming evident that the day is not far
distant when it will be an admitted fact. On the other |
hand, science is divided into two camps, one consisting of j
the conceited men whose pride will not allow them to admit |
anything new which, contradicting their theories, sends
them—the princes of knowledge—to school again; and the
other consists of investigators who, sceptical from over- j
prudence, dare not give their names, their reputation, and j
past celebrity, to the chances of an affirmation which is not
in accordance with their original belief. Some, indeed, have
listened to the voice of conscience, when it spoke louder j
than that of self-love; they have not hesitated to recognise
the immensity of the revolution agitating the world, and to j
sanction with their avowal a truth that must transform it. j
Glory be to them, for it is not impossible to get astray in j
the midst of the snares of all kinds which human cupidity j
and ignorance have spread on the road. Since mediumship j
has been admitted into the category of forces, advantage has |
been taken of it. Spiritual phenomena are more attractive
than a seance of prestidigitation, and probably the curiosity i
which they excite enters into the designs of God to at- j
tract the attention of men, and make the truth shine forth. •;
But this novelty offers a large field for imposition, and it j
was to be expected that the prevalent positivism would j
seize so convenient a handle. As mediumship is the i
result of certain fluidic conditions inherent in the in¬
dividual, it is exceptional, and among the persons en¬
dowed with this faculty there are a great number who, j
instead of considering it as a sign that they have a mission
to fulfil, have only, thought of utilising it as a gain-
producing instrument; this is much to be regretted, and is
liable to lead to fatal consequences. The paid medium has
become a stumbling-block. Mediumship is a lovely flower !
grafted by God himself upon the tree of universal sensi- j1
tivity. The privileged beings who possess it are specially j i
endowed. They possess a sacerdotal function, and their per- j J
sons ought to be considered sacred \ they ought to be j1
regarded as the source whence spring regenerating truth, ji
and be treated with care and attention. As, however, these | J
faculties, notwithstanding that they result in spiritual mani- ! j
festations, are dependent on material conditions, it follows j i
of necessity that there is a mixture of impure elements. |j
Mediums are fallible like everything human, and low aspira- j
tions possess them in the same degree as those whose
organisms do not admit of communion with the invisible j
world. The power being in proportion to the fluidic compo- i
sition of each individual, medial gifts are divided into 1
infinite varieties. All may be utilised, but all are not of |
the same quality, and some even may be counterbalanced by j j
a tendency capable of perverting the power. It would be a j
great advantage to be able to separate the tares from the j
grain ; to class the mediums in spiritual categories ; to give |
each' medium his rank according to his elevation, inspiration, j
utility, and, above all, morality; by this means the respect j
of the public would be insured. For this it would be j
necessary to have an examining committee, composed of the |
most eminent men among the Spiritualists, whose names j)
would be a guarantee to the public. Their verdict should be j
a sufficient credential, and if, afterwards, any medium j
should become unworthy of such a favour, his name should j j
be struck off the list by those who placed it there. Public j |
confidence would thus be protected against the avalanche of
cupidity which is likely to pervert spiritual manifestations.
If it is impossible not to pay mediums, one would at least
know that from the fact of their conduct being vouched for
the temptation to err would be less. This then, although
not much, would be something gained. We must come
sooner or later to the total suppression of remuneration to
mediums for the stances they give.
Let us not forget that we are engaged in a desperate
struggle between spirit and matter, and that the present
condition of the world is concerned. If spirit gets the
upper hand, its impulse will make the world progress at
once to a superior level, but if matter gains the day, we may
be again sunk for centuries in an abyss of brutality and
hopeless selfishness. Why, then, cannot all we Spiritualists
who are fighting for the truth with all the strength God has
given us, why cannot we collect the necessary funds for
providing those mediums who are recognised as worthy of
the name with the means for carrying on their holy ministry ?
Every religion has its priests, who are paid either by the
state or its adherents, and are we, who say we are numbered
by millions, incapable of finding among ourselves what is
necessary for the maintenance of our priests, the mediums,
who occasionally prove, at the cost of their lives, the great
truth of the communion of the visible with the invisible ?
Let us acknowledge it. Corruption has sapped human
society, and it is with grief that each surgeon examines the
probe he extracts from the wound. Nothing seems more
easy of application than the idea I have just put forth, and
nothing, I think, could be more desirable, and yet there is
nothing more difficult, and why ? Because Spiritualists are
wanting in that force which nothing can resist, namely faith,
for faith is able to triumph over mental inertia. To carry
out this idea, it would be necessary to combine to form com¬
mittees wherever Spiritualists are to be found, to find men
capable of judging mediums, and then for them to cover
them with the protection of their names, to appoint com¬
missions to undertake the financial departments, receive
subscriptions and disburse them, organise seances, and admit
no phenomena that cannot be produced in a manner free
from all doubt, and perfectly unassailable. This should be
done all over the world, and the results thus officially
stamped should be published for the edification of those who
desire to know the truth. But where are the devoted
organisers ready to consecrate themselves to such a labour ?
Where are individuals to be found capable of inspiring every
one with a confidence that no one dare dispute ? What I
have just outlined is perhaps the picture of organisations of
the future, for one is compelled to acknowledge that the
formation of such an organisation at the present day pre¬
sents such difficulties that one’s courage fails, and the
idea is sorrowfully renounced. This is an additional reason
for bringing forward all the true mediums whom God has
raised up. These mediums are to be found everywhere,
irrespective of those who are paid, and who are too often
subject to suspicion. As, however, they act in modest
retirement, avoiding the light of publicity, they pass on
unperceived, and their gifts, unless they are searched for
and published—are unknown. There is then a real utility in
throwing light on these hidden treasures, and making known
to the world that it is not always necessary that seances
should be paid for, since there are other mediums besides
those whose position renders it necessary for them to live by
the altar, and jj the experiences of such powerful inter¬
mediaries it will be interesting to catalogue. If each pri¬
vate circle brought its tribute of research, supported by
personal attestation, we should soon have so large a collec¬
tion of facts, that the only difficulty would be to publish
them. I will now begin a review of unknown mediums,
which I hope will be found interesting. By the side of paid
mediums I place those who are unknown
ANNA ENNEMOSER,
Anna Ennemoser has just died at Trieste at the age of
forty-two. Her uncle, Dr. Ennemoser, was a homoeopathic
physician and a great mesmerist. One day, when passing
through Meran in the Tyrol, he went to see his brother, and
found his little niece, then six year old, so seriously ill that
the doctors had given her up, He began to mesmerise her?
Sept. 28, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
149
in order at any rate to relieve her sufferings, but to his j
great astonishment the child fell into a somnambulic state and j
indicated a remedy which would cure her. Her prescription |
was followed and she was cured. Afterwards her lucidity j
steadily increased. The generous and compassionate Anna |
allowed all sufferers to profit by her gift, and under the j(
direction of Dr. H., a physician as wise as honourable, and j
full of faith, she has made numberless cures. !
Mesmerism and Spiritualism are so nearly connected that j
it is difficult to separate them. Anna, like many other |
somnambulists, herself felt the pains of those who consulted j
her; her diagnosis was clear, precise, and free from hesita-
tion, but it was not at the time she was en rapport that the |
treatment was shown her; it was at night, during sleep, that j
the psychical operation took place—probably a medial revela- j
tion—and the next morning, upon awakening, she perfectly j
remembered the prescription that had been given her over |
night. She saw the spirits, and when examining invalids j
she perceived the influences, good or bad, which affected |
them, and by which the spirits were able to act upon their
organisms. One day, being in a carriage, she distinctly saw
the apparition of a cousin, who had been dead some time,
throw himself at a horse’s head and suddenly stop him. At
the same time the carriage she was in came to a cross road,
when a horse who had got his bit between his teeth came |
down the road at right angles at full gallop, and at the very |
moment he was about to run against her carriage, he j
suddenly stopped as if by enchantment. No one could under- I
stand what caused this sudden stoppage. Anna was a pious j
person, of great sincerity and extreme modesty; it is im- i
possible to doubt her word. I can give no proof of the j
reality of the apparition, but it is certain that Anna saw it j
before she was aware of the danger she was running, and j
that the danger was obviated. Is there not great consolation !
in the thought, supported by this occurrence, that we have |
invisible friends who watch over us without our knowledge ? |
Anna married an honourable professor of music, and she |
herself gave lessons in music and languages. Her know- |
ledge was varied and extensive, accompanied by a simplicity j
that doubled its value. She died a victim to her zeal in j
alleviating the sufferings of her fellow creatures, and during j
her career was loved, respected, and regretted. It is a eon- j
solation to Spiritualists who have known her to feel sure j
that they will meet her again hereafter. |
GIACOMO LORBEER.
At the commencement of this century, in the vicinity of
Marburg, Giacomo Lorbeer was born of poor parents, of
whom he was bereft at an early age. Rescued from being
burned to death in a small house—all that was left him by
his father—he was brought up by some charitable neigh¬
bours, who clothed and fed him, and sent him to school. !
He showed no taste for reading or writing, but bestowed all j
his efforts on music, and became a tolerable violinist. One j
day, while walking in the fields, he saw a person approach- j
ing him, whom he recognised as an old comrade at whose |
funeral he had assisted two years previously. He was so j
frightened that he felt inclined to run away ; his friend, j
however, induced him to remain, and made an appointment j
to meet him next day on a neighbouring mountain. He took j
care to be at the rendezvous, where he found his friend, who j
advised him to continue his musical studies, and told him j
that in a short time he would have dictations direct from
God put into his head, which he must write down. Lorbeer
went to live at Gratz, and never saw the apparition again.
Many years passed away, and Lorbeer became a drunkard, j
The unfortunate habit he had contracted, although morally
degrading, brought into greater prominence the phenomena
of which he was the subject. It was during the eclipse of
his intelligence in 1840 that he began to write medially.
He is probably the oldest writing medium in the history of
modern Spiritualism, and no one at that epoch suspected
the evolution of which Lorbeer was one of the precursors.
In this way he wrote many volumes, some of which have I
been translated into Italian. Here are the titles :—History j
of the Spiritual and Material Creation (published in Ger- j
many, and translated into Italian); The Infancy of Jesus ij
Christ (published in Germany, and translated into Italian) ; ]
Instruction Concerning Eternal Love and Wisdom (published |<
in German) ; Description and Spiritual and Material Ex¬
planation of the Earth (published in German); The Three
Days Passed in the Temple by Jesus (published in German,
and translated into Italian) ; Material and Spiritual Descrip¬
tion of the Moon, with an Essay on the Mesmeric Fluid (pub¬
lished in German); Material and Spiritual Description of
Saturn; Material and Spiritual Description of the Sun;
Correspondence between Jesus and Abgar ; An Epistle of St.
Paul) which has been lost; Explanation of the Gospel of St.
John., and a great number of communications explaining
different phenomena of nature.
I need not say that these writings were all above the intel¬
ligence of Lorbeer. I do not know whether this early
medium was an intuitive or mechanical writer, but the
multiplicity of questions treated, and, in fact, the whole of
these writings prove beyond doubt the intervention of an
intelligence superior to that of this poor fiddler, gaining his
daily bread by the lowest branch of his art, and seeking
forgetfulness of his miseries in habitual drunkenness. Lor¬
beer died before arriving at old age.
GOTTFRIED YOU MAJERHOFER.
In 1862 Dr. Weidele was senior surgeon of the Military
Hospital, at Trieste. He had a son of eight or ten years of
age, who fell ill suddenly and died in a few hours. In the
greatest despair Mr. Weidele rushed out of the house in
search of fresh air, when he met at his door one of his
intimate friends, an officer of artillery, who gave him a letter,
saying: “ I have just come from Gratz, on my way to
Venice; one of my friends, Giacomo Lorbeer, charged me
to give you this letter.” Mr. Weidele did not know Lorbeer.
He opened the letter, and read with astonishment the
directions which Lorbeer gave him, by God’s order, telling
him at the same time that he is about to lose a dearly
beloved son. Lost in astonishment, Weidele flew off to his
friend Majerhofer to tell him of this extraordinary occur¬
rence. Who was this friend? Gottfried von Majerhofer,
born in 1807, at Munich, was the son of Martin
de Majerhofer, lieutenant-general of artillery in Bavaria.
Having entered the Military School of Munich, he
became sub-lieutenant in 1828, lieutenant in 1830,
and first lieutenant in 1830, when he was appointed
aide-de-camp to General Ileydeck, with whom he
served in Greece. He became Captain in 1835, and six
months later major-general on the staff. His military
career gave promise of a brilliant future, but it was doomed
to be prematurely interrupted. A marriage contracted with
a young Greek woman of striking beauty caused him to
retire from the army. Noble was the countenance of Majer¬
hofer, and his was a grand soul, that found itself surrounded
by many human corruptions at a time when even nations,
forgetful of their past glory, allowed themselves to sink in
the social scale, apparently debased by a moral incubus pecu¬
liar to the epoch. At such a time it was pleasant to meet
with pure souls, warm hearts, and superior intelligence.
. Majerhofer possessed all these. He spoke five different
languages, was a distinguished astronomer, an excellent
landscape painter, eminent chemist, and had a smattering of
all the sciences. The study of mesmerism had disposed him
to receive the germs of the new spiritual discovery. He
listened to Weidele with interest, made himself acquainted
with the writings of Lorbeer, which he read with great
avidity, and eight years afterwards he became himself a
writing medium. It is remarkable that those who have read
the writings of both Lorbeer and Majerhofer are unanimous
in attributing the same style and inspiration to each. A
great number of these later communications have been
translated into Italian, but none have yet been published.
Great merit is attached to them. Majerhofer soon became
the chief of a circle interesting themselves in Spiritualism,
all of whom held him in profound veneration. He was a
seer; he beheld the spirits, and he was even able to
counteract the evil intentions of the lower ones, as I have
often witnessed. He possessed, besides, a faculty which, as
far as I know, no one else has as yet possessed. He saw the
faces of those he was in conversation with change according
to the latent feeling that animated them. Although the
features retained their ordinary expression to every one else,
to him was visible the real feelings which their owners
150
THE SEXElTtlALIST.
Sept. 28, 1877-
thought were surely disguised. Majerhofer has made a I
great number of medial cures. His mesmeric power and j
his faith were immense. He is dead, esteemed, loved and |
regretted by all those who knew him. j
Trieste, Sept. 22nd, (To be continued.) IJ
DEATH OF ONE OF THE DAVENPORT BROTHERS IN !
AUSTRALIA. |
Mr. W. H. H. Davenport, one of the brothers whose |
performances [spirit manifestations] have created for them I
h world-wide reputation, died at the Oxford Hotel, King-
street, on Sunday morning, from pulmonary consumption, j
The brothers arrived in Sydney three weeks ago from New j
Zealand, where they had been giving a series of performances, j
but while there William Davenport broke a blood-vessel, |
and came to Sydney under the advice of his medical at- j
tendants. He seemed to be recovering his health after his j
arrival here, and was in excellent spirits; but broke a second |
blood-vessel again last Thursday week, and another one !
yesterday morning. This last proved fatal. He was attended | ;
here by Dr. Markey, who, however, with Dr. Halkett, held j
out no hope that he would ever recover, the disease having |
taken a firm hold of his system. He had been suffering |
from phthisic for some years. He leaves a young widow, |
having been married five months ago. His funeral took j
place yesterday afternoon.—Sydney {N. S. W.) Evening News, j
July 3rd. I
The Banner of Light says : The above in a few words states j
the departure from the field of labour of one who has (in j
company with his brother Ira) been instrumental in accom- j
plishing a great and extended work during the brief term of j
years allotted him. Himself and brother have in years gone j
by appeared successfully before the kings, queens, and great ■
ones of the Old World, and have created among them a j
marked impression, which has in some instances been out- j
wrought in action; they have sowed seeds of truth in the j
minds of the common people which have borne fruit, in j
many cases, of more than an hundred fold, thousands having j
been converted through their mediumship to a belief in i
spirit-return, and a knowledge of the future life awaiting |
every human soul. The opposition, uncharitableness, and |
suspicion of the world have drifted by the departed like a j
cloud, and he has now gone to his reward in the land where |
all wrongs are righted. I
MISS WOOD’S MEDIUMSHIP. |
Miss Wood is a strong physical medium, through whose j
powers musical instruments fly about in a dark room like j
bats, while she is secured by binding, or otherwise, in a jv
variety of ways. This phenomenon in her presence had been j
well tested at Newcastle for several years, when upon one j
occasion some people put wet paint on the musical instru- j
ments, and at the close of the seance some of the paint was j(
found on her hands, whereupon a great cry of imposture was I
raised. . . . ' 'I
But before this, experiments and observations in London I
and America had shown that the temporarily materialised |
hands which form in the presence of certain physical j
mediums are nearly always the duplicates of the hands of j
the mediums, and that they come from and return to the |
bodies of the mediums in some mysterious way. While the j
hands of Mrs. Fay were attached to the terminals of a re- j
fleeting galvanometer in the laboratory of Mr. William |
Crookes, so that she could not quit her hold of the fixed !
terminals, or substitute anything else of the same electrical j
resistance as her body, without the act being detected by the j
indications of the instrument, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. Crookes, H
Mr. Harrison, and others present saw perfect duplicates of jc
Mrs. Fay’s hands and arms coming from an opening in the !
cabinet several feet away from where the hands and arms !
of Mrs. Fay were “ electrically tied.” In the case of Florence j
Cook also, the strong general resemblance of the materialised |
faces and hands to those of the medium, but with occasional j
striking points of difference, had been published in these j
pages over and over again. Further, the painting of instru- j
ments had been tried in America long before the Miss j
Wood case, and a boy condemned as an impostor because j
the colours were afterwards found on his hands. A
gentleman present, however, was not satisfied with the
condemnation, because he had seen the boy put his hands
under a shawl upon a table, and in the partial darkness
other living hands and arms formed under the shawl, and
finally thrust themselves into view about a yard further
than the hands of the boy could reach—a very good mani¬
festation for Miss Wood to sit for regularly henceforth, since
it would quite clear her from all the charges brought against
her. The gentleman already mentioned tried quiet experi¬
ments at home with the boy, after the “ exposure,” and
discovered that when truly materialised hands grasped
painted objects, the colouring matter remained upon various
parts of the body of the medium when the mysterious
hands returned whence they came. Full descriptions of the
experiments were published in The Banner of Light at the
time, and we should feel very grateful to any American
reader of these pages who would obtain and send us a copy
of that article for publication here, for the facts narrated
therein are of permanent scientific interest.
Yet in spite of all this antecedent experience, when in
Miss Wood’s case results were obtained in accordance with
the laws governing the genuine phenomena, she was abused
as an impostor, because the Spiritualists present had not
made themselves acquainted with the results of previous
painstaking researches, and required that the facts should
agree with their erroneous theories, rather than that they
should adopt true theories applicable to the actual facts.
Lately, at Blackburn, Miss Wood has found herself in
trouble again. An alleged materialised spirit was seized,
and discovered to be Miss Wood, who protested that she was
an unconscious instrument temporarily in the hands of an
evil power. In this case there was undoubtedly imposture
somewhere, either on the part of the spirits or of Miss
Wood, and those of the public who do not believe in spirits
at all, will naturally enough unhesitatingly condemn her.
But in this case, before the seance began, why did not those in
charge inform inquirers that it had been well proved that when
living forms appeared at such seances they were almost in¬
variably duplicates of the form of the medium, and that a
few months previously the phrase “ materialisation manifes¬
tations,” had been changed to “ form manifestations,”
by the National Association of Spiritualists, at the
wise suggestion of Mr. W. H. Coffin, because persons ex¬
perienced in these phenomena bore witness that the powers
controlling such mediums had the power (as miraculous as
any power need be) of taking them out of the securest bonds
in the twinkling of an eye, and putting them back again
afterwards. Moreover, the spirits occasionally do not scruple
to use this power to deceive the sitters, the intelligences at
the root of the marvellous phenomena being frequently of a
low moral order. The law is, a The lower the spirit, the
greater is its direct control over common matter,” and it is
a fact that, generally speaking, as the lower physical pheno¬
mena are left behind and trance and clairvoyance obtain,
the messages are higher and purer in their nature. Scarcely
any of the original messages given through strong physical
mediumship, will bear printing in their own religious or
intellectual merits, which statement we make after having
listened to hundreds of them. If these plain and previously
published truths had been told to the sitters before the seance
with Miss Wood began, they would have very much modi¬
fied the subsequent conclusions of the sitters.
During several evenings in advance of the eventful night,
Miss Wood had given form seances in Blackburn, and, ac¬
cording to the somewhat meagre reports which have reached
us, had been secured by tapes by a committee, so that she
could play no tricks, had had her sleeves sewed to her dress,
in fact had been most carefully bound, yet was always found
in the same condition at the close of the seances, the fasten¬
ings untampered with. If this were the case, it proves that
she was in the hands of some strong abnormal power for
several evenings in succession, and if so, great weight is
given to her assertion that she was in the hands of that
same power on the last occasion also. In fact, as much
responsibility rests upon those who secure mediums as upon
the mediums themselves. If Miss Wood’s committee secured
her properly, they ought to publicly testify in writing that
during several evenings she was proved to be under the con¬
trol of some abnormal power, consequently that there is
Sept. 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
151
strong presumptive evidence that she was, as she states, in
the hands of that power on the last occasion. If they did
not secure her with efficiency, they are responsible to the
other sitters for having wasted their time, and for having
given a guarantee of security when none existed ; they are
also responsible to the. medium for not being able to par¬
tially protect her by advancing the presumptive evidence of
her good faith, which those previous early seances might have
afforded had they done their duty.
As regards the last stance, a letter sent us by the gentle¬
man who tied her, tends to show that she was not freed by
abnormal means; the tapes were considerably stretched, as
if to free her hands, and apparently could not possibly have
been replaced as at first. This stance then differed materially
in its details from the others, because at the close of the
others she was always found as at first. Is there no other
explanation than that of imposture on the part of the me¬
dium ? When Dr. John Purdon, late of the Isle of Wight,
but now with H. M. Forces, in India, first saw the mani¬
festations in Florence Cook’s presence, he carefully tested
them, and at last publicly admitted their genuineness. Still
they were so at variance with all previous experience as
almost to make reason reel; he, therefore, with her consent,
in his own home, sewed her up in a tight strong canvas
jacket, sewed her hands behind her back, nailed the bottom
of the jacket to the floor of the cabinet, and applied straps
and buckles in a truly scientific manner. A living face,
draped in white, came to the aperture of the cabinet, and
the medium screamed out that she was being freed. On
opening the cabinet it was found that the lower part of the
jacket had been cut all round with some sharp cutting-
instrument. In great tribulation of mind he recorded the
facts in these pages in a letter very damaging at the time to
Miss Cook. But the more he thought over it, the more
troubled in mind did he become. With her arms secured,
how could she get at any cutting instrument, even if it were
in her own pocket, and how could she reach the skirts of
the jacket ? Moreover, there, in his own house, in broad
daylight, things were taking place which she could not do,
and which he could not explain. So, after taking further
time to consider,-he wrote a second letter to this journal,
saying that whatever the explanation might be, he could not,
after considering all the bearings of the facts, but acquit
Miss Cook in his own mind of having attempted any tricks.
After he had fully “made friends” with the spirits, they
gave him the most marvellous tests of their power, to his
heart’s content, and he has ever since been one of the firmest
of Miss Cook’s friends. The truth is, that with rude rough
hand, he attempted to wrest some of the greatest wonders
from the spirit world, but received evidence that that world
did not exist to submit to his authority, or to that of resi¬
dents in Blackburn and elsewhere.
Who is to say that the same conditions did not exist at the
seance at Blackburn, but that nobody like Dr. Purdon being
near Miss Wood to patiently bring subsequent investigation
to bear upon the facts for weeks, and Miss Wood being an
unprotected professional medium, has fallen a victim to cir¬
cumstances ?
We do not say that this is so, but hold that it is. a view
of the case which deserves consideration. Conditions should
not be made too easy for physical mediums, and when clear
cases of imposture occur, the mediums should be drummed
out of our ranks. In America Spiritualism has suffered most
severely because Spiritualists have not been sufficiently
strict with their mediums, and there has been too much of a
tendency to swallow every thing presented as a manifestation,
and the credulous have had too much public ascendency over
those with wiser heads. We have received a letter censur¬
ing Mr. Blackburn for condemning Miss Wood, the grounds
of censure being that a Spiritualist should not cast the first
stone, and that Miss Wood should have a fair trial. But as
regards the facts, there is nothing to try; they are admitted
without dispute by everybody, the medium included. Miss
Wood was presented as a ghost, either with or without her
own knowledge, so there was deception somewhere. We raise
the question whether this case was not like that witnessed
by Dr. Purdon. The newspaper reports show that there was
a strongly inharmonious and disagreeable spiritual atmo¬
sphere in the room, and that the exacting requirements of the
observers at Blackburn had been successfully met on several
occasions, without a full and honourable and well-earned
written certificate being given in return, so may not the
final result have been intended to show those present that
the powers of the next world are not to be subjected to the
authority of everybody who is quite ready to take in hand
the reins of government ? At the same time, why should
the mediums suffer for the sins of others ?
Looking at the past career of Miss Wood, the severe way
in which she has been tested by hard-headed committees at
Newcastle for years, looking also at the doubts hanging over
the present case and the grievous trouble it has brought upon
her, we think that she had henceforth better sit for day light
| manifestations only, and that nothing about her future
I manifestations should be recorded, except those which it is
1 beyond her power, or that of anybody else to produce artifi-
| cially. Indeed, it is not certain that the latter rule would
i not be a good one to enforce with all physical mediums.
One last word. All form manifestations are in but a
| partially developed stage, often surrounded, when genuine,
| with suspicious-looking conditions, and they exhaust the
| mediums terribly for the time. They are, therefore, more
suited at present for private quiet experimental investiga-
| tion by experienced people, than for presentation to the un¬
informed public, with whom they always do more harm than
I good. Even when the tests are faultless, the phenomena are
| too wonderful to be believed at first by a beginner, there¬
fore, those who try to present these advanced manifestations
to a raw audience, will but involve themselves in trouble,
I expense, ridicule and failure. Simple and good phenomena
in strong daylight should be presented to the public in their
i own homes, and the more simple and unanswerable mani-
| festations are encouraged at present, the better; otherwise
the movement will soon find itself in a quagmire like that in
which it is floundering in America, owing to sufficiently keen
| watch not having been kept by Spiritualists on the tricks and
| the jealousies of the more untrustworthy physical mediums.
Information of a private nature has reached us, of the alleviation of
the most intense suffering in a dangerous case of illness in which drugs
had failed, by home practice of Captain James’s recent instructions,
“ How to Mesmerise.” The family doctor was convinced by the results
of the efficacy of mesmerism.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten is now lecturing in San Francisco.
Mrs. Tappan-Richmond has returned to Chicago from New York. Mr.
Home is in St. Petersburg. Dr. Slade is at Brussels, with Mr. and Miss
Simmons, and Miss Slade still with him; they were recently visited by
Mr. Algernon Joy.
On Sunday next, September 30th, Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a
trance address in the Mill-lane schoolroom, Stockton-on-Tees ; subject,
“ Mediumship: What is it?” Service at 6.30. This meeting is the
inaugural one of the first series of Sunday services in the interest of
Spiritualism in the above town.
The title of Mr. W. H. Harrison’s forthcoming paper before the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism is “Experiments
in the Mesmerising of Animals,” and he will give some conclusions
deduced therefrom. Will the members of the Association try some home
experiments on cats, dogs, and other animals before the paper is read,
and will friends who cannot be present furnish him with authenti¬
cated letters for future publication, on their experiments in the same
direction ?
Madame Blavatsky’s Book.—Dr. G. Bloede, in the course of an
article in The Banner of Light, gives some extracts from advanced
proof sheets of Madame Blavatsky’s book on Spiritualism. He says:—
“ Under ‘ Elemental and Elementary ’ Spirits—a highly commendable
distinction—we read, ‘ Elemental Spirits—the creatures evolved in the
four kingdoms of earth, air, fire, and water, and called by the Cabalists
Gnomes, Sylphs, Salamanders, and Undines. They may be termed the
forces of nature, and will either produce effects as the servile agents of
general laws, or may be employed by the disembodied spirits—whether
pure or impure—and by living adepts of magic and sorcery, to produce
desired phenomenal results. Such beings never become men. They
have been seen, feared, blessed, banned, and invoked in every quarter of
the globe, and in every age. Shall we, then, concede that all who have
met them were hallucinated ? These elementals are the principal agents
of disembodied, but never visible, spirits, at seances, and the producers
of all the phenomena except the subjective. Elementary spirits are pro-
| perly the disembodied souls of the depraved; these souls having at
some time prior to death separated from themselves their divine spirits,
I and so lost their chance for immortality. Once divorced from their
bodies, these souls (also called astral bodies), of purely materialistic
| persons, are irresistibly attracted to the earth, where they live a tem¬
porary and finite life amid elements congenial to their gross natures.
I After a more or less prolonged period of tinae these material souls will
| begin to disintegrate, and finally, like a column of mist, be dissolved
1 atom by atom in the surrounding elements.’ ”
152
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 28, 1877.
SOLDIER, REST.
There was a Russian ;came over the sea,
Just when the war was growing hot,
And his name it was Tjalikayakaree-
Karindobrolikanahdarot-
Schibkadirova-
Sanalik-
Danerik-
Yaragobhot.
A Turk was standing upon the shore,
Right where the terrible Russian crossed,
And he cried, “ Bismillah! I’m Ab El Kor-
Bazaroukilgonautosgobross-
Getfinpravadi-
Kilgekosladji-
Gravino-
Blivido-
Jenikodosk!”
So they stood, like brave men, long and well.
And they called each other their proper names
Till the lock-jaw seized, them ; and where they fell j
They buried them both by the Irdosholames-
Kala talustchuk-
Mischtaribustceup-
Bnlgari-
Dulbary- I
Sagharimainz. Banner of Light. j
THE PERMANENCY OP THE AFFECTIONS.
Oppressed with grief, through blighted love,
To ease my heart of cruel pain,
I strive to think, “It matters not,
For life is short, and joy is vain.
We must lie down and feed the worm,
The light of love fade from each eye,
The lips grow pale and cease to bum
With passion’s feverish ecstasy!”
But still an inward voice I hear,
Try as I will, to still its cry—
“ The thing that loves, unhappy man,
That is the part which cannot die.
Th’ implanted spark, th’ undying worm,
The flame no crystal waters cool,
The hungering, thirsting, craving soul,
That is the thing which loves, 0 fool! ”
Alas ! for me, my heart grows faint—
Can I embrace the raving wind,
Or fragrance of the roses sweet,
And hope in them response to find ?
For she was false, as she was fair,
And fickle as the foam-clad sea,
And to win back the love she sware
Were just as hard and sad for me. L. F. S.
A JEU DE MOT PERHAPS A JEU DESERET.
In Heaven the word “ beatitude,”
The burden of an angel’s song,
Dwindled on earth to “ attitude,”
By echo clipped and borne along.
And thus on earth it lost its life,
Becoming but an empty form;
A source of ritualistic strife,
Of bows and postures multiform.
For H attitude ” is poor indeed
Divested of its right to “ he ”
A poor, uprooted, worthless weed,
A rootless, lifeless, withered tree. T. H.
HANS CHRISTIAN ANDERSEN.
Dear Andersen is dead !
To his heaUtiful soul God said :
“ Arise, and come
To your eternal home 1”
Thus in the dusk of even,
Soft as the sweet dew falling,
He heard Him calling;
As wide the bright gates swung,
A glorious angel sung,
“ Of such is the kingdom of heaven I”
So his wonderful spirit fled.
Bow, oh, lily, and weep!
Mourn, oh, sea-born shell!
Sigh, wet winds from the deep—
Sing melody sweet and low 1
Wave, ye vines that creep 1
And toll, oh, sad harebell 1
Forever sound asleep,
Held by the Mighty Spell,
Lies the voice that blessed,
The hand that caressed,
And the great child-heart in the manly breast.
But the spirit never dies !
Lift up, oh, lily, lift up
Your snowy or golden cup!
Smile, oh, daisy, with eyes
Of purple or winsome blue 1
Anemone, lighting the dell
Through delicate tears of dew,
Think of his sweet surprise
At the star-flowers of the skies—
At the immortelle
And the asphodel,
And the blossoms of Paradise !
Weave, oh, sweet child-souls,
Your loves to aureoles
Around his deathless name
Who was as pure as you!
Pure as the flower-held dew,
Pure as the star-fed flame
In the Northern blue!
Dream of the holy delight
That fills his loving eyes,
As he walks in the fields of light;
Hear him as he cries :
“ Dear Andersen is come
To the children of Paradise—
To the Christ-Child in his home !”
C. H. Woodman, in the “ Wide Aioake.”
Correspondence.
[Great freedomis given to correspondents, who sometimes expressopinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned;
copies should he kepthy the writers.]
REINCARNATION.
Sir,—I send you a letter from a friend on the Continent on the sub¬
ject of reincarnation, which I think merits a place in your liberal and
unprejudiced journal. He says he can write more freely, and with less
reserve, a privaite letter than one intended for publication, as the people
in England are so prejudiced that the truth cannot be spoken to them
right out. Is this reproach from a foreigner a just one ? Perhaps it is.
Some American mediums have told me that their guides have taught
them that reincarnation is a true theory, with the injunction not to pro¬
claim it yet in England. It does, I think, look as if some of the spirits
engaged in teaching us know more about this than they think it wise
to say.
Tien Sien, upon an occasion when his medium was in Paris, found
himself confronted with a party of French gentlemen who came to meet
him on my invitation, for the purpose of learning from him his reasons
for denying the necessity of a succession of existences on earth. This
eloquent and enlightened spirit declined to give his reasons, or to go into
the matter at all. This appeared a strange proceeding on his part, and
was disappointing, and the only conclusion we could draw was, that, like
the needy knifegrinder, he had “none to give.” John King has told us
that he lived in the reign of Charles II. as Sir Henry Morgan, and also
in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, when he was an intimate friend of Sir
Walter Raleigh. To have lived in these two reigns involves two incar¬
nations. He does not like, however, to be questioned on the matter,
and shirks giving any explanation.
It is interesting to find any one who undertakes to furnish evidence
of his different existences. The writer of the letter I send you is prepared,
if encouraged, to produce some on this subject, which it is generally
considered impossible to do. Certainly the account related by Prince
Wittgenstein is a near approach to evidence, and exceedingly interesting.
He says that in the presence of a writing medium and himself, an
ancient medal suddenly fell on the table (an apporf), and that the
medium began to write under the influence of a spirit then attached to a
body which at that moment happened to be asleep many miles away,
therefore, was not prevented from remembering and relating some occur¬
rences through this medium of a previous existence—as a nun, I think
—when this identical medal had belonged to her. This spirit, now a
lady in the flesh, is a friend of Prince Wittgenstein, and he took the
opportunity when meeting her to put the medal in her hand without
saying anything about it. She was curiously affected upon taking it, and
said that she had an indistinct recollection of having seen it somewhere
before.
I suppose the unwillingness on the part of many Spiritualists to
accept this theory, so explanatory of the phenomena of life, arises from
the fact of its not having been inculcated in childhood. But'better late
than never. If one could come to the consideration of this question with
one’s mind a tabula rasa, putting aside the religious ideas our parents—
for want of knowing better—have so carefully instilled into us, we
should be better able to see this matter in its true light. This, of course,
is difficult, if not impossible. If there is any one who does not think
there is any sense in my friend’s letter perhaps he will say so, and
point out where it is unreasonable. It must be conceded, I think, that
the theory of reincarnation is sufficiently important to warrant discus¬
sion, which may have the effect of throwing some light on the subject.
J. H. Gledstanes.
Merignac, Bordeaux, France, Sept. 20th, 1877.
“My dear Friend,—You wish me to say something about reincarna¬
tion, and I am very glad you give me the opportunity of telling you my
mind, with that freedom which I cannot use when writing to journals
whose readers are prejudiced against the subject. No Spiritualist was
more reluctant to accept that theory than I was, till about four years
ago, when such evidence was forced upon my reason and my senses, that
had I resisted it any longer I should have been unworthy of any reveal-
ment of truth. The limits of a letter forbid me to relate the hundredth
part of my experiences in that direction, and how varied and convincing
they have been. I have committed those experiences to writing, and
my lucubration may one day appear in some willing English periodical,
when the subject gets less unpopular, and when other investigators (and
Sept. 28, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 153
they are not few in England, I know), will support me with their j
evidences, which cannot but be similar to mine. Indeed, one-tenth part j)
of what I have experienced would suffice to make any reasonable mind j
look upon reincarnation as upon truth itself. 1 (
“You observe, ‘How is it that some spirits deny reincarnation?’ j)
They deny it to those who are not willing or capable of receiving the j (
fundamental truth. My constant experience has been that spiritual ij
food is given according to the strength of the spiritualistic stomach ; and j j
as I promised to be candid with you, I will tell you that from the (
reluctance both in America and England to even investigate the subject,
I have come to the conclusion that the receptability of spiritual truths is
not very great in the Anglo-Saxon race, which seems to delight princi¬
pally in physical manifestations and materialisations. I well recollect
when iu England ten or twelve years ago, how the English Spiritualists /
used to inquire into the subject of reincarnation. ‘ I say, dear spirit, 1
what about this reincarnation business ?’ ‘ All French folly,’ was the j
suitable reply. Why is it the Tyndalls, the Leweses, the Huxleys, the |
Carpenters, the Lankesters, and the Donkins get nothing at seances f \
Simply because they do not go after truth, but after error. Let me say, | J
in extenuation of the strange conduct of these gentlemen, that they are j |
incapable of swallowing one atom of spiritual food. We reincarna- j
tionists know the reason of this incapability. These men of science, i ]
so-called, are youngsters, requiring at least one half dozen more reincar- j
nations before they can understand spiritual things, for the present they j
can only delight in matter. You say there would be less difficulty in j
accepting the theory were there complete unanimity on the subject
among the inhabitants of the other side. Wait, and ere long you will
have unanimity of teaching. Rome was not built in a day. Our first j
lesson of astronomy was about the moon being a green cheese, j
Woul4 it be well if astronomers were all unanimous with nurses ? i
The apparition at Lourdes, to which you call my attention, is a |
capital illustration of the adaptation of teaching to the intelligence
or preconceptions of the recipients. A spirit personating the Virgin j
Mary, or—for what we know—the Virgin Mary herself, appears i
among Roman Catholics to rekindle their waning faith. The spirits j
of Socinus, Luther, or Calvin would have met there with the same
reception as St. Januarius or St. Philomena at 15, Southampton-
row. You say there is a groupe of Spiritualists at Bordeaux who
know all about their previous incarnations; this is no news to me, j
who have been informed through different mediums, from different
localities, and perfectly unknown to each other, of my fourteen returns
to the flesh, and who have been allowed to see clairvoyantly my relations
and the scenes of my past existences, sights of interest and delight un¬
speakable. Been deceived ? By whom ? Why ? and wherefore ? j
What interest can disembodied intelligences have in bamboozling un- j
offending mortals ? What purpose can it serve spirits to inform me that
I have been clad fourteen times with that vest of Nessus called the
flesh ? That forty centuries ago I was a savage babe-eater in Saturn;
that I have been six times a woman, and that I once lost my head on the j
block as a traitor? Surely, if spirits come for nothing else but to j
deceive us, we had better give up Spiritualism altogether, and throwing I
ourselves at the feet of the first greasy monk we meet, cry ‘ Mea culpa? !
and promise never to deal again with sulphur and brimstone. They are j
not aware, in England, of the progress the spiritual philosophy is
making on the Continent. True, our materialisations and startling
physical phenomena are few, but we approach inquiry unbiassed, and
get rewarded with ever progressive teachings. Persuaded as we are I
that reincarnation is the very foundation of the spiritual philosophy, we
cannot but look upon a cumbrous literature of Spiritualism which
ignores the plurality of existences, as upon a gigantic pap for spiritual
nurslings.
“ When I speak or write on reincarnation, I carefully avoid taxing
any man’s belief. My watchword is 1 Investigate, and you will find
the truth.’ “X.”
EROBLEMS.
Sir,—At the request of, and by the favour of, the author, I have
great pleasure in sending you the following problems for publication,
from the pen of the pioneer lecturer .and editor on Spiritualism in
America. Robt. H. Fryar.
8, Norfchumberland-place, Bath, Sept. 18th, 1877.
To “M.A. (Oxon).”—Sir,—I do not suppose it necessary to apologise
to you for this address. True, it is from a stranger, in a distant part
of our planet, but with subjects on which your facile pen has been
somewhat prolific, I have for many years been familiar. In the Magnet,
a monthly journal I published in Xew York forty years ago, you will
find some of the facts stated in your papers in Human Nature for May
and June, 1877. I commenced my observations of medial phenomena in
the Fox family, and from that day to this have had the most ample
means and opportunities for investigation, have myself witnessed all the
phases of mediumship which I have seen described in the papers, and I
here freely and fully admit all the phenomena alleged to have been
evolved through human mediumship. Fifty years in the field of
psychology has given me a taste for this investigation. But I know
very well that one brain is not large enough to monopolise all that is to
be known on any one given aubject, and now, by the editor’s favour, j
allow me to submit a few points to you on which I am still in want of j
“Light! More Light!” I think I understand what is meant by |
“ faith,” “saving faith,” or faith in the unknown ; and how this is to be |
distinguished from trust in humanity, in the laws of nature, and the !
constitution of things.
But here are my “Problems”:—
A. In respect to mediumship, ancient or modern, between humanity
and the unknown, the motive force of which is faith, inspired by odd, j
enigmatical phenomena—
1. How is it proved that there has been any failure in humanity to
make such a mediumship essential to man’s highest good ?
2. How is it to be accounted for that man had existed so long on this
earth before any such mediumship had been thought of ?
3. How is it proved safe and wise to build practical theories of the
unknown on mystical phenomena ?
4. Mediumship depends upon an idiosyncrasy found in a very very
] small fraction of the race. And how does it appear that these
“ spiritual manifestations ” are not confined to a corresponding small
| class of invisibles on the other side ? Can a being who is in the
highest sense “spiritual” come in contact with the “physical” at all?
B. In respect to Spirits—
1. How do you demonstrate the personal sexual identity of an
| invisibility 1
2. You suggest that we should “'Try the Spirits.” To what kind of
| responsibility do you hold an invisible personage? And what “ tests”
] can in any place be applied to “ spirits ” other than such as evince the
| spirits’ clairvoyance, and force or chemical skill ?
3. In the Wesley family this skill was shown, as it has been else¬
where since, in presenting the forms of animals and other physical
bodies; also iu presenting the forms of infant faces, and any other
i suggested shapes, so that nothing can be determined from such appear-
1 ] ances in favour of personal identity.
il 4. Without human mediumship, how do you demonstrate that
| j “ spirits ” do or can know any more of this external world than we
i know of that spirit world without it. Are not the medium’s eyes, ears,
I and speech the spirits’ also, so far as we can know ?
j 5. It is assured and taught by Spiritualists that their trances and
| “ spirit controls ” are analogous to what occurs in mesmerism. How,
j then, is it proved that there is or can be, in any case, more than one
| spirit, through each medium ? When that “ spirit ” is sufficiently
] clairvoyant, tests are given. Hence the reading of sealed letters, and
| the favourable conditions for so doing,
i C. Of man’s nature and destiny.
h 14 The past and the future are hidden from our sight, while all the
i essentials for our well-being are within our reach. Humanity is
| complete in itself. What necessity can be shown for any revelations
j from any other world, except, indeed, such as are brought by the
| meteor from the skies ?
i 2. Man is constantly outgrowing his memory of this physical world,
I as is shown in sleep and dreaming, so that we may have already
(| forgotten even more than we now know. How does it appear that our
j personal identity cannot be extended beyond death, without a memory
I. of this external world, a memory we do not carry with us in our sleep
! at night, and one we did not bring with us from the “ portal state.”
j La Roy Sunderland.
I Quincy, Mass., United States of America.
THE OCCASIONAL TRICKS OP SITTERS AT PUBLIC SEANCES.
Sir,—It strikes me, as a matter not to be overlooked, that at
public seances deception may be practised by the sitters instead of the
medium.
In fact,’ I have witnessed trickery of which the medium, I am sure,
was wholly innocent.
Such an occurrence must have very evil results, if observed by a non-
i Spiritualist, not only in its effect on his own mind, but in providing
I him with a pretext for jeering at the credulity of Spiritualists. Further,
it might lead to unjust suspicions being thrown on the medium.
] Should you think it worth while to introduce the question into The
| Spiritualist, it might prevent persons from stooping to this mode of im¬
posture.   E. M. B.
PRACTICAL PHILOSOPHY.
Sir,—True philosophy must be founded on science, and be judged by
its fruit as a verification. If the argument of the idealist “ admits of no
| reply and produces no conviction,” I think that Professor Tyndall is
] right in setting it aside as Bacon did. But that Tyndall is quite aware
! of the nature of the position you may see by his allusions in his Belfast
j address and essays. In his essay on “Scientific Materialism,” Dr.
b Tyndall says—“Partly through mathematical and partly through ex-
j perimental research, physical science has of late years assumed a
momentous position in the world. Both in a material and in an intel¬
lectual point of view, it has produced immense changes, vast social
| ameliorations, and vast alterations in the popular conception of the
i origin, rule, and governance of natural things. By science, in the
physical world, miracles are wrought, while philosophy is forsaking its
! ancient metaphysical channels and pursuing others which have been
opened or indicated by scientific research. This must become more and
more the case as philosophical writers become more deeply imbued with
the methods of science, better acquainted with the facts which scientific
men have won, and with the great theories which they have elaborated.”
i Then turn to his essay on “ Matter and Force,” and you find this—
| 1 After many trials it became evident that man’s capacities were, so to
speak, the complement of nature’s facts, and that, within certain limits,
the secrets of the universe were open to the human understanding.”
Now I hold this to be sound philosophy and common sense, and the
! genesis of the human mind inits relation to the objective world observed
in the order of its occurrences is most simple, and the science of the
mind itself becomes a physical science. We find no place for meta-
1 physics except in abstractions, for in fact there is no such thing, or we
| are really of “ Such stuff as dreams are made of,” and all else is sheer
illusion.
Professor Huxley, like the late Mr. Mill, has tried to find some middle
| i way, some sort of compromise, but it is all in vain. You must be
i i logical and thorough one way or the other, let it be Tyndall and Bacon,
1 ] positive philosophy, or Hegel’s absolute idealism, ending in absolute
[j scepticism and negation, or, in a word, ending in a reductio ad ah-
154
SeUt. 28, 1877.
TfiE SPIRITUALIST.
surdum. Newton’s warning was well put, <l Physics, beware of Meta¬
physics ! ” But this is no reply to Mr. Massey, for the argument would
be endless and most unprofitable. Henby Gr. Atkinson, F.Gr.S.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.  
THE EFFECT OF LIGHT IN MESMERISM.
Sir,—The recent articles of Captain James in The Spiritualist induce
me to mention a curious feature of mesmerism, which has shown itself
in the case of a mesmeric patient whom I have recently treated cura-
tively. The patient is sometimes in a clairvoyant state, and can read
(slowly) with her eyes shut, if the type is large. When in this state, if
the room is well lighted, she complains of its being dark, but if the gas
is then turned down she at once remarks that the light has increased,
and she then reads with less difficulty. If I put her into the mesmeric
state in the evening, just before darkness sets in, the invariable result
of lighting the gas when she is under mesmerism is to throw her into a
state of extreme rigidity, and she then complains of a painful sensation
in her arms and legs, which continues till the rigidity passes off. It is
not gaslight only which produces this effect. The light from a match
has the same result. W. Sanderson.
10, Hill-street, Galashiels, August 16th, 1877.
A CASE OF IMPOSTURE AT PHILADELPHIA.
There is great public excitement at the present time in
Philadelphia about the discovery of wholesale imposture in
connection with some seances in - that town. A medium of
shady and immoral antecedents, whose name is Bliss, began
giving seances for physical manifestations in 1874, and for
two years obtained phenomena under tolerably satisfactory
conditions. But in the spring of 1876 he and Mrs. Bliss
moved to new premises, No. 1027, Ogden-street, and began
to meet the public demand for the marvellous with a whole¬
sale supply of materialised spirits. The conditions were of a
most suspicious nature, the large cabinet being “ carpentered
up ” as a fixture on their own premises, and containing a
second, or inner chamber, and when away from their own
premises they could not obtain the same phenomena that
they did at home.
In England such conditions would not be tolerated, and it
will be at once noticed how they differ from the materialisa¬
tions obtained by such mediums as Mr. Williams and Miss
Florence Cook (Mrs. Corner), who have obtained the pheno¬
mena in the homes of scientific investigators whither they
went without luggage, and were either held hand and foot,
or secured by tapes sealed with signet rings, while the
manifestations took place.
We are indebted to Dr. Rhodes, of Philadelphia, for early
particulars of the Bliss case. The Philadelphia Times
narrates how Mr. and Mrs. Bliss began materialisation
seances on their new premises in 1876. At first one spirit
appeared, named Blue Flower, the Indian maiden :
Shortly afterwards Mrs. Bliss, Thomas Evans, formerly a spirit-
photographer, at 403, Vine-street, approached Mr. Bliss and proposed
to enter into the materialising business on a large scale. He said that
his wife and his daughter were accomplished “ spirits,” and that he
could secure the services of a mechanician, who would construct suitable
apparatus and manage the seances secretly. After agreeing upon money
matters, Bliss accepted the proposition. Evans’ friend then constructed
the cabinet and other necessary accompaniments. The cabinet was built
in the north-eastern corner of the parlour of Bliss’ house, in Ogden-street.
It is much larger than such structures generally are, and besides a
door, it has two apertures—one more than is generally provided—as
the “new departure ” contemplated having spirits in the room at the
same time that faces appeared at both openings. The sides of the
cabinet reach from floor to ceiling. Within, in the north-eastern
corner, is a small sub-apartment, built of frame-work, covered with
mosquito-netting. It is provided with a door, and within sits the medium,
Mrs. Bliss, upon a chair, the door having been locked upon her. There
is nothing else to be seen but the solid floor, the solid walls, and the
solid ceiling.
The cabinet constructed, the Blisses began materialisation on a large
scale, Mrs. Bliss, Mr. Evans, and the latter’s wife and daughter per¬
sonating the spirits. Bliss and Evans quarrelled, however, and in con¬
sequence the Evans family left the Ogden-street house, but their places
were soon filled, and from that time until the present the working force
of the establishment consisted of Mr. and Mrs. Bliss, Evans’ old friend, a
young lady who plays the organ and who prides herself upon her curls
and her long flowing hair, a young woman who attends to the domestic
arrangements of the house, and a young lady who represents a multitude
of spirits. This latter is Bliss’ main support. She is smart and quick,
and a wonderful mimic. The performances which this combination gave
were really wonderful, and seemingly gave convincing proof of the truth
of the Spiritualist’s doctrine. The Bliss seances were heard of all over
the country. The circle was always presided over by Bliss. He never
materialised. The audience having assembled he would select the most
ardent Spiritualists and place them upon the front row of chairs, ladies
and gentlemen alternately. Mrs. Bliss would then be locked within a
framework apartment in the cabinet, which is perfectly dark, and, the
lights having been lowered, the spirits would begin to put in an appear-
j. [ ance. The performers so thoroughly understood their business, the para-
{J phernalia was so perfect in all its details, that even sceptics, who had
!;] not their imaginations heated with Spiritualistic doctrines, were fre-
i j i quently awe-struck. Many converts were made, and Bliss was making
i|| : money.
! j The number and variety of spirits to be seen at the Bliss seances was
ill really wonderful. The greatest favourite is Mrs. Mollie M’Carty,
j|| better known as Old Mother M’Carty. She is a little old Irish woman,
111 dressed in black. The smart young lady represents her. When she
! (I retires to the cabinet she is seen to fade away into thin air. This is done
iji by her gradually stooping down, and finally Evans’s old friend, who is
i 11 nearly always posted in a corner of the cabinet, throws a black shawl
Iji over her, making it appear as though she had melted into the darkness of
i i the cabinet. Mrs. Bliss still represents Blue Flower, her original
| | character. She has added to her repertoire the Persian Princess, an
| | airy-looking spirit, who dances before the audience; she only talks, if
j| at all, in whispers, as Mrs. Bliss cannot get rid of her Spanish accent.
|(|; The Parsee Priest, who worships the sun, but who in the seances must
||l satisfy himself with the feeble flashes from almost extinguished gas-
| lights, is also Mrsr Bliss. Billy, the Bootblack, is a great favourite.
| He walks among the audience, and picks up quarters and half dollars
I from his admirers. Mrs. Bliss is Billy. He only talks when he has
| retired to the cabinet, and he does not talk then, for Evans’s old friend
| speaks up for him, as Mrs. Bliss could not talk like a bootblack for all
11 the spirits in the country. Sister Agatha, a sister of charity, is per-
11 sonified by the smart young lady, who recites a prayer in Latin. The
I j Quakeress, the spirit of a young lady who died in New Jersey, is also
j | materialised by the smart young lady. The Silent Doctor is also her
| work. This mysterious spirit has been fully recognised by Mrs. ,
j | as the shade of her departed spouse, who died about a year ago. The
) | Doctor never speaks except to his wife, and then only in subdued
II whispers.
i Lizzie Delarue is an exceedingly tall, beautiful young lady spirit,
with long, waving hair, a present by nature to the smart young woman.
She walks among the audience, and allows them to cut off small locks of
her beautiful tresses, which they may keep as mementos of spirit-land.
One night a prominent visitor cut off a lock of the spirit’s hair fully one
foot long, and when the smart young lady retired to the cabinet she
muttered terrible imprecations in the most spirited manner. Miss
Clara , although the smart young lady knows better, is supposed to
be the sister of , a young Hebrew Spiritualist. Miss  
died seven years ago, when quite young, and her increased stature is
explained on the ground that she has grown in the spirit-land. 
i fully identifies her as his sister. Katie , the spirit-daughter of a
j former United States Minister to Switzerland, is also managed by the
| smart young lady. She played an important part when Bliss was pre-
j sented with a little son some time since. He determined to have a
spirit christening, and Katie was selected as the spirit godmother.
Mr. , and Mr. , it is said, sent quantities of wine to the
christening, and it is also charged that Mr. Bliss, in consequence,
enjoyed himself royally. “ Big Injun,” Swift Water, is a formidable
looking spirit warrior, seven feet high. The smart young lady can walk
around a room on her toes, and a bunch of tall feathers in her hair
makes her fully seven feet high; when he retires, his squaw, Bright
Eye, emerges from the cabinet, the smart young lady making the change
very rapidly.
Bliss pretends to have a mortal fear of “ Big Injun,’’ as that feminine
warrior drags him around the room by the hair of his head. In all
masculine characters neither of the female performers utters a word
aloud when before the audience. When they retire to the cabinet,
Evans’ old friend speaks for them. The favourite spirit of Colonel
 , and his wife, is a colonel who was killed, after losing an arm, in
the rebellion. He is said to be a relative of Colonel , and is fully
identified by that gentleman. The smart young lady does this. The
smart young lady again adds to the spirit list by the shade of Captain
Davis, a privateer in the war of 1812; and the same able person, it is
related, also personates the spirit of the daughter of Mr. . Mr.
 , it is said, also recognises his sister’s spirit, when the smart young
lady fixes herself up properly in the cabinet.
Some time since a brother of one of the circle, after attending a Bliss
seance, said it was “wonderfulif true,” and accordingly he induced his
brother to ask that he be permitted to take a look in the cellar beneath
the cabinet. When this request was made Bliss went under control,
I and Captain Hodges, the leader of the spirit bands, then spoke through
him. He upbraided the man for his little faith, and bade him good¬
bye for ever. Billy, the Bootblack, and “ Big Injun,” and all of the
guardian angels followed suit, and tearfully bade him farewell. The
worthy gentleman could not withstand all this pressure, and he accord¬
ingly begged the spirits’ pardon, and promised never to doubt them
again. On another occasion the same gentleman presented “ Big Injun ”
with a fine red Mackinaw blanket.
Some time since a Mr.  , representing the Spiritualists of New
Orleans, came to this city for the purpose of investigating the Bliss
seances. He was granted a private sitting. He saw, and was convinced
that everything was right and wonderful. His departed wife came to
him, and even called him by the pet names he was accustomed to. The
smart young lady was so smart this time that she succeeded in
making Mr. —— himself mention the pet names, and then by repeat¬
ing them made him imagine that they originated with her. A lawyer
of this city, a scientist, it is said, after a private sitting, pronounced
the Bliss materialisation the greatest of all spiritual manifestations.
Together with his wife he had a private sitting, and it is said fully
recognised his mother, his mother-in-law, and other departed relatives.
After all seances, it must be understood, the audience is permitted to
thoroughly examine the cabinet, and upon no occasion has anything
been found wrong, and soundings upon walls, floor, and ceiling only
served to show that they were as solid and firm as could be.
Sept. 28, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
155
Bliss was making money rather rapidly. His tri-weekly circles netted
him from 10 dols. to 35 dols. per night. For private sittings he charges
10 dols., although it is said Mr. and Mr. paid him 100 dols.
for one sitting. For seances in one’s private parlour he charges 20 dols.,
although the only outside spirit visible on such occasions is Blue
Flower. Besides, he has received costly presents. One gentleman
presented a fine music-box to the spirits, and elegant bouquets were
being almost constantly received.
Mr. Philip Diesinger, a commission merchant and hardware dealer
doing business on Sixth-street, above Market, attended a Bliss seance
about three months since, and although he detected no trickery, yet he
was thoroughly convinced that a fraud was being perpetrated upon
many very worthy people, and he resolved to ferret it out. Since that
time he has almost constantly attended the seances, and grew so rapidly
in favour that he was appointed a director of the Spiritualist camp¬
meeting that ended on Sunday last. A Times representative also
started out to solve the mystery, and worked with Mr. Diesinger with
that end in view. Although the cabinet floor was apparently solid, the
cellar was evidently the first place to be looked after, as it is a singular
fact that when Bliss holds seances in Circle Hall, where he has no cellar
handy, Blue Flower alone comes out of the cabinet.
A time, too, must be selected when Mr. and Mrs. Bliss were absent
from home. The opportunity came on Saturday, when the two started
for the camp meeting, intending not to return until last evening or this
morning. Evans’ old friend and the housekeeper were left in charge
of the dwelling. It was accidentally learned that Bliss’s landlady, a
Mrs. Smiley, in order to drain the adjoining property, desired to run a
pipe through the cellar of 1027, Ogden-street. She sent plumbers to
the house, but Bliss refused them admittance to the cellar, promising,
however, that when he returned from camp meeting they could perform
their work. On Sunday the plumbers, Fricka and Buschner, doing
business at No. 1319, North Seventeenth-street, were visited. They
were informed of the condition of affairs, and being sharp, intelligent
men, they appreciated the situation. Being told that Bliss was absent
from home they agreed to visit the house on Monday morning, and at
once employed the newspaper man as an assistant plumber. Early
yesterday morning the Times representative, with a shovel upon one
shoulder and looking like a demoralised rough, walked with Fricka and
Buschner up the alleyway of Bliss’s house and into the yard. Evans’
old friend and the housekeeper strenuously objected to a visit being
made to the cellar, but upon being told that the work must be done, the
cellar door was finally unlocked. Down into the cellar, the door shut
and a candle lighted and the investigation began. The plumbers
shovelled away, attending to their work and making considerable
noise. The newspaper man hunted around with the candle, and this
is what he found.
The cellar windows were darkened by pieces of matting. In the
centre of the cellar, beneath the parlour, was a structure of wood
reaching to the ceiling, and firmly built, no rays of light having a
chance to filter through cracks between the boards. A door opened
into it. When the candle lit up the scene within, a sight was presented
that would have made the most confirmed Spiritualist open his eyes
in amazement. Hung upon the nails, and lying upon the floor, were a
nondescript collection of dresses and wreaths and shawls, and every¬
thing that goes to make up a first-class spirit. There was the heavily
padded coat of Swift Water, that made the smart young lady look
indeed a “ Big Injun.” Sister Agatha’s black gown, Mother McCarty’s
faded costume, the shawl that the Persian Princess weaves out of thin
air, Blue Flower’s'azure apparel, the Quakeress’ drab dress, were all
hung up or thrown on the floor, together with the other costumes that
add variety to the Bliss programme. On two shelves were a copy of
the Banner of Light, a Boston Spiritualistic publication; the red,
black, and white feathers that make “Big Injun” so tall and terrible-
looking ; beautiful wreaths of artificial flowers, probably presented by
infatuated believers to some favourite spirits ; the dark lantern that
enables Captain Hodges to appear “ in his own light,” and an array of
paints and powders, used by the spirits of the noble red man or the
shades of sickly young girls. Above the little room was nothing but
the uncovered joists and flooring. There was no trap-door. A look
around discovered, in a well-covered corner of the room, a black
curtain. This lifted, and the candle placed beyond, and the
mystery of Bliss’ great materialisation was solved. The second apart¬
ment was hung around with black curtains. A little step-ladder,
lying in one corner, had its steps cushioned in black. Upon a table
was a small, soft cushion.
Directly above the table was a trap-door; the door through which
had passed all the spirits that enabled Bliss to drain the pockets of his
dupes. It was a very ingenious contrivance. An ordinary trap-door,
when being pounded and trampled upon by investigators above, would
either shake or creak, or slightly give way beneath the feet, or send
forth a hollow sound. This one did neither of these. It was, in fact,
the most solid portion of the cabinet flooring.
A double lever screw, with its lower part working upon
an iron bed, forced up the trap-door so firmly that the upper
part of it formed the most substantial part of the floor of
the cabinet. The reason that the edges of the trap-door
were not seen was that three of them were under the walls
and partition of one end of the inner cabinet, the fourth
edge alone being visible, and indistinguishable from one of
the ordinary cracks between the boards.
After the publication of the above details, Bliss sued the
editor of The Philadelphia Times for libel, and certain other
persons for conspiracy to libel, and two of the defendants
were bound over by the magistrate’s court to take their trial.
I Mr. Diesinger then charged Bliss and his wife with con¬
spiracy, and with obtaining money under false pretences.
A a Captain” Harrison swore that he assisted to make the
trap-door, and that at first he and other persons acted the
ghosts; as Mr. Diesinger’s grandmother he had been fully
recognised, and as another man’s father, grandfather, uncle,
and two of his sons. Miss Helen F. Snyder also gave evi¬
dence to the same effect, and that she had personated num¬
bers of spirits. A bagful of dresses and wigs was produced
in court; the head-gear of Swift Water, the wig of Mother
M‘Carty, the mocassins of Big Injun, glass bugles which
had been described as “heavenly jewels”—all were there.
The counsel for the defendants argued that Captain Har¬
rison and Miss Snyder were confessedly conspirators, and
that, even if what they said were true, they ought to be pro¬
secuted with Mr. and Mrs. Bliss. Magistrate Smith said
that the Commonwealth having decided to place two of the
conspirators in the witness-box, the proceedings against
them were quashed. The two defendants were then com¬
mitted for trial, and bail for their appearance was found by
Mr. Jonathan Roberts. The Court was crowded, and the
matter has caused great excitement in Philadelphia.
WITCHES AND OTHER NIGHT FEARS.
The following is from the Essai/s of Elia, by Charles
Lamb :—
We are too hasty when we set down our ancestors in the gross for
fools, for the monstrous inconsistencies (as they seem to us) involved in
their creed of withcraft. In the relations of this visible world we find
them to have been as rational, and shrewd to detect an historic anomaly,
as ourselves. But when once the invisible world was supposed to be
opened, and the lawless agency of bad spirits assumed, what measures
| of probability, of decency, of fitness, or proportion—of that which dis¬
tinguishes the likely from the palpably absurd—could they have to
guide them in the rejection or admission of any particular testimony ?
That maidens pined away, wasting inwardly as their waxen images
consumed before a fire; that corn was lodged, and cattle lamed; that
whirlwinds uptore in diabolic revelry the oaks of the forest; or that
spits and kettles only danced a fearful-innocent vagary about some
rustic’s kitchen when no wind was stirring, were all equally probable
where no law of agency was understood. That the prince of the powers
of darkness, passing by the flower and pomp of the earth, should lay
preposterous siege to the weak fantasy of indigent eld—has neither
likelihood nor unlikelihood, a priori, to us, who have no measure to
guess at his policy, or standard to estimate what rate those anile souls
| may fetch in the devil’s market. Nor, when the wicked are expressly
symbolised by a goat, was it to be wondered at so much, that he should
I come sometimes in that body, and assert his metaphor. That the inter-
I course was opened at all between both worlds, was perhaps the mistake;
| but that once assumed, I see no reason for disbelieving one attested
story of this nature more than another on the score of absurdity. There
is no law to judge of the lawless, or canon by which a dream may be
I criticised.
I have sometimes thought that I could not have existed in the days
of received witchcraft; that I could not have slept in a village where
one of those reputed hags dwelt. Our ancestors were bolder or more
obtuse. Amidst the universal belief that these wretches were in league
with the author of all evil, holding hell tributary to their muttering, no
simple justice of the peace seems to have scrupled issuing, or silly head-
borough serving, a warrant upon them, as if they should subpoena
Satan I Prospero in his boat, with his books and wand about him,
suffers himself to be conveyed away at the mercy of his enemies to an
unknown island. He might have raised a storm or two, we think, on
the passage. His acquiescence is in exact analogy to the non-resistance
of witches to the constituted powers. "What stops the Fiend in Spenser
! from tearing Guyon to pieces ? Or who had made it a condition of his
prey, that Guyon must take assay of the glorious bait? We have no
guess. We do not know the laws of that country.
| From my childhood I was extremely inquisitive about witches and
witch-stories. My maid, and more legendary aunt, supplied me with
j good store. But I shall mention the accident which directed my curiosity
originally into this channel. In my father’s book-closet, the History of
the Bible, by Stackhouse, occupied a distinguished station. The pic¬
tures with which it abounds—one of the ark, in particular, and another
of Solomon’s temple, delineated with all the fidelity of ocular admeasure¬
ment, as if the artist had been upon the spot—attracted my childish
attention. There was a picture, too, of the Witch raising up Samuel,
| which I wish that I had never seen. We shall come to that hereafter.
Stackhouse is in two huge tomes; and there was a pleasure in removing
folios of that magnitude, which, with infinite straining, was as much as
I could manage, from the situation which they occupied upon an upper
| shelf. I have not met with the work from that time to this, but I
remember it consisted of Old Testament stories, orderly set down,
with the objection appended to each story, and the solution of the
I objection regularly tacked to that. The objection was a summary, of
! whatever difficulties had been opposed to the credibility of the history,
by the shrewdness of ancient or modern infidelity, drawn up with an
almost complimentary excess of candour. The solution was brief,
| modest, and satisfactory. The bane and antidote were both before you.
156
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 28, 1877.
To doubts so put, and so quashed, there seemed to be an end for ever.
The dragon lay dead, for the foot of the veriest babe to trample on.
But, like as was rather feared than realised from that slain monster in
Spenser, from the womb of those crushed errors young dragonets would
creep, exceeding the prowess of so tender a Saint deorge as myself to
vanquish. The habit of expecting objections to every passage set me
upon starting more objections, for the glory of finding a solution of my
own for them. I became staggered and perplexed, a sceptic in long-
coats. The pretty Bible stories which I had read, or heard read in
church, lost their purity and sincerity of impression, and were turned
into so many historic or chronologic theses, to be defended against
whatever impugners. I was not to disbelieve them, but—the next thing
to that—I was to be quite sure that some one or other would or had
disbelieved them. Next to making a child an infidel, is the letting him
know that there are infidels at all. Credulity is the man’s weakness,
but the child’s strength. Oh, how ugly sound Scriptural doubts from
the mouth of a babe and a suckling! I should have lost myself in these
mazes, and have pined away, I think, with such unfit sustenance as
these husks afforded, but for a fortunate piece of ill-fortune which about
this time befell me. Turning over the picture of the ark with too much
haste, I unhappily made a breach in its ingenious fabric—driving my
inconsiderate fingers right through the two larger quadrupeds—the
elephant and the camel—that stare (as well they might) out of the two
last windows next the steerage in that unique piece of naval archi¬
tecture. Stackhouse was henceforth locked up, and became an inter¬
dicted treasure. With the book, the objections and solutions gradually
cleared out of my head, and have seldom returned since in any force to
trouble me. But there was one impression which I had imbibed from
Stackhouse, which no lock or bar could shut out, and which was destined
to try my childish nerves rather morej seriously. That detestable
picture!
I was dreadfully alive to nervous terrors. The night-time, solitude,
and the dark, were my hell. The sufferings I endured in this nature
would justify the expression. I never laid my head on my pillow, I
suppose, from the fourth to the seventh or eighth year of my life—so
far as memory serves in things so long ago—without an assurance,
which realised its own prophecy, of seeing some frightful spectre. Be
old Stackhouse then acquitted in part, if I say, that to his picture of
the Witch raising up Samuel—(0 that old man covered with a mantle!)
—I owe—not my midnight terrors, the hell of my infancy—“-but the
shape and manner of their visitation. It was he who dressed up for me
a hag that nightly sate upon my pillow—a sure bedfellow, when my
aunt or my maid was far from me. All day long, while the book was
permitted me, I dreamed waking over his delineation, and at night (if I
may use so bold an expression) awoke into sleep, and found the vision
true. I durst not, even in the daylight, once enter the chamber where
I slept, without my face turned to the window, aversely from the bed
where my witch-ridden pillow was. Parents do not know what they do
when they leave tender babes alone to go to sleep in the dark. The
feeling about for a friendly arm, the hoping for a familiar voice, when
they wake screaming, and find none to soothe them, what a terrible
shaking it is to their poor nerves ! The keeping them up till midnight,
through candle-light and the unwholesome hours, as they are called,
would, I am satisfied, in a medical point of view, prove the better caution.
That detestable picture, as 1 have said, gave the fashion to my dreams
—if dreams they were—for the scene of them was invariably the room
in which I lay. Had I never met with the picture, the fears would have
come self-pictured in some shape or other—
Headless bear, black man, or ape—
but, as it was, my imaginations took that form. It is not book, or
picture, or the stories of foolish servants, which create these terrors in
children. They can at most but give them a direction. Dear little
T. H, who of all children has been brought up with the most scrupulous
exclusion of every taint of superstition, who was never allowed to hear
of goblin or apparition, or scarcely to be told of bad men, or to read or
hear of any distressing story, finds all this world of fear, from which he
has been so rigidly excluded ah extra, in his own “ thick-coming fancies,”
and from his little midnight pillow, this nurse-child of optimism will
start at shapes, unborrowed of tradition, in sweats to which the reveries
of the cell-damned murderer are tranquillity.
Gorgons, and Hydras, and Chimaeras dire, stories of Celaeno and the
Harpies, may reproduce themselves in the brain of superstition, but
they were there before. They are transcripts, types, the archetypes are
in us, and eternal. How else should the recital of that, which we know
in a waking sense, to be false, come to affect us at all ?—or
 Names, whose sense we see not,
Fray us with things that be not ?
Is it that we naturally conceive terror from such objects, considered in
their capacity of being able to inflict upon us bodily injury ? O, least of
all! These terrors are of older standing. They date beyond body, or,
without the body, they would have been the same. All the cruel,
tormenting, defined devils in Dante, tearing, mangling, choking,
stifling, scorching demons, are they one-half so fearful to the spirit of a
man as the simple idea of a spirit unembodied following him—
Like one that on a lonesome road
Doth walk in fear and dread,
And having once turn’d round, walks on,
And turns no more his head ;
Because he knows a frightful fiend
Doth close behind him tread.*
That the kind of fear here treated of is purely spiritual, that it is
strong in proportion as it is objectless upon earth, that it predominates
in the period of sinless infancy, are difficulties, the solution of which
iI might afford some probable insight into our antemundane condition, and
| a peep at least into the shadowland of pre-existence.
My night-fancies have long ceased to be afflictive. I confess an occa-
i sional night-mare ; but I do not, as in early youth, keep a stud of them.
| Fiendish faces, with the extinguished taper, will come and look at me;
but I know them for mockeries, even while I cannot elude their pre¬
sence, and I fight and grapple with them. For the credit of my imagi-
j nation, I am almost ashamed to say how tame and prosaic my dreams
are grown. They are never romantic, seldom even rural. They are of
architecture and of buildings ; cities abroad, which I have never seen,
I and hardly have hoped to see. I have traversed, for the seeming length
I of a natural day, Borne, Amsterdam, Paris, Lisbon, their churches,
| palaces, squares, market places, shops, suburbs, ruins, with an inex¬
pressible sense of delight, a map-like distinctness of trace, and a day¬
light vividness of vision, that was all but being awake. I have formerly
travelled among the Westmoreland fells, my highest Alps, but they are
objects too mighty for the grasp of my dreaming recognition, and I have
again and again awoke with ineffectual struggles of the inner eye, to
make out a shape in any way whatever, of Helvellyn. Methought I
was in that country, but the mountains were gone. The poverty of my
dream mortifies me. There is Coleridge, at his will can conjure up icy
domes, and pleasure-houses for Kubla Khan, and Abyssinian maids, and
songs of Abara, and caverns,
Where Alpb, the sacred river,' runs,
to solace his night solitudes, when I cannot muster a fiddle. Barry
Cornwall has his tritons and his nereids gambolling before him in noc¬
turnal visions, and proclaiming sons born to Neptune, when my stretch
of imaginative activity can hardly, in the night season, raise up the
ghost of a fish-wife. To set my failures in somewhat a mortifying
light, it was after reading the noble dream of this poet, that my fancy
ran strong upon these marine spectra ; and the poor plastic power, such
as it is, within me set to work, to humour my folly in a sort of dream
that very night. Methought I Was upon the ocean billows at some sea
nuptials, riding and mounted high, with the customary train sounding
their conchs before me (I, myself, you may be sure, the leading god),
and jollily we went careering over the main, till just where Ino
Leucothea should have greeted me (1 think it was Ino) with a white
! embrace, the billows gradually subsiding, fell from a sea-roughness to a
sea-calm, and thence to a river motion, and that river (as happens in the
i familiarisation of dreams) was no other than the gentle Thames, which
landed me in the wafture of a placid wave or two, alone, safe and in¬
i' glorious, somewhere at the foot of Lambeth palace.
The degree of the soul’s creativeness in sleep might furnish no
whimsical criterion of the quantum of poetical faculty resident in the
I same soul waking. An old gentleman, a friend of mine, and a
humourist, used to carry this notion so far, that when he saw any strip¬
ling of his acquaintance, ambitious of becoming a poet, his first question
| would be, “ Young man, what sort of dreams have you ? ” I have so
much faith in my old friend’s theory that when I feel that idle vein re-
j turning upon me, I presently subside into my proper element of prose,
| remembering those eluding nereids, and that inauspicious inland
landing.
i A somnambulistic writer, in the August number of the Revue Spirite,
] says, “ The Romance of the Future ” is one of those strange problems
which have no reasonable solution except through Spiritualism. M.
Bonnemere’s account of it is, in brief, as follows : “I saw quite often a
lady (designated), Mme. X., who, after great suffering which she was
called upon to endure in 1861, was prostrated by a nervous affection,
which produced the most marvellous phenomena. Every night during
her sleep her mouth became convulsively closed, and nothing could
open it. About five o’clock, summer and winter, she arose, and seizing
a pen, wrote in the most rapid manner, and without hesitating an
instant for an idea, a phrase, a word. It was an inspired flood, and it
took me double the time to copy that it took Mme. X. to write it.
Endowed with a wonderful lucidity, she would announce the hour when
she could again speak—her teeth remaining clinched sometimes for
sixteen hours. More than twenty-one thousand pages have thus been
written in seven years of time. This includes fifty or sixty romances
and novels; a treatise on hygiene; a history of her life, her malady, her
intellectual development; a theory of liberty; an explanation of all the
phenomena of somnambulism, of typtology, of Spiritualism ; a treatise
on natural religion ; a sort of new Genesis under the title of La Planete,
mixed with medical consultations, formulas of pharmacy or perfumery,
and receipts of all sorts, induced, perhaps, by the conversations of the
day. In 1863 she wrote: ‘ I live two existences simultaneously, and
what is singular is, that while I am myself, and while I feel that I am
controlled by others, I have two very different characters, In my
natural life I am the most feeble of creatures; in my hidden life (ma vie
cached) I am nearly (or quite) strong. In religion, that which I believe
in the first is not at all that which I believe in the second, , , , Some¬
times a month or two beforehand the name of a romance is announced
to me which I am to write. . .. Sometimes, when writing, as a diversion
from my sad souvenirs, I feel the presence of a friend dead a number of
years since; I converse with him interiorly; it is a deep intiure pene¬
tration of my being ; I am as a sponge imbibing his thought.’ ”
| ! ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
\)\ W. N. A.—No address being appended to your letter, it is useless as a certi-
j; j fieate to the public.
]|| Astral.—We do not desire to insert anonymous letters recommending
lij professional persons. Why not add your name and address for publi-
i) j cation ?
] (| Erratum.—In Captain James’s last article, from “ cataleptic trance, and the
l h products,” omit the word “ and,” .
Mrt Coleridge’s Ancient Mariner,
Sept. 28, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit--
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New Vork.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Oa.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;ahd well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 0d.
EOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the sendees of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.‘
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. Ss. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,;also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s. .
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium fight. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents : The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
ana Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth I0s. Od.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
Inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is Illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient inteliigence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that ail spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. od.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. I2s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE . SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conanfc 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton, 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. fid.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The u Poughkeepsie Seer." s. cl.
Nature’s Divine Revelations .* . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .70
The Teacher. „ II. ,, . . • .76
The Seer. ,,111, „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. . , • • .76
The Thinker. ,, V. „ . . . . .70
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . . .76
i Stellar Key'to the Summer Land . . . .86
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .70
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual , . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .30
Events in the Life or a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence .. . . . .20
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .86
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .70
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . , .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .20
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . . .30
Morning Lectures • . . . . > .70
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ....
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieitualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism , 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.».). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.AV Tnn. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 18
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . io
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fisko, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind!; or, A Voice from the Ganges.by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (aileged) Ex-
g'anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . -12
The Dervishes: or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . IS
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10
d;
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Otheb
Obsebvers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
. question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritnalistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-tuming and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be ■
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un ■
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are fixe ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People mil appear
startling and antecedently impossible.’’—RowW Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists."—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE-“KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. fid. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
•London, W.O.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 28, 1877.
The great question of the day.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to he left in sanitary matters, at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless ? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may he set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PEINCE
ADBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours,
INQUESTS. —A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
nvaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of beeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, END’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of END'S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopaedy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PEEPAEED FEOM SOUND EIPE FETJIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver; Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
muts be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L A.C., London, writes:—
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Tour theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“YourFruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Someeby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say : “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost alwaj s recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says be never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M.BBRAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, peice 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Pans—PHARMACY DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gre&ory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor qf
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
• CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator oyer the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Tntro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions m
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VHI: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—^Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly (Exists,
and is Probably the Medimn of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Sutneet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—^Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr." Darling’s Experiments—Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franldin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Will be Published in a few days.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo. richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARUISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
: Contents. '
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10, The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother-in-Law.—16. Wirbelrbewegung.—Vi. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted (Jarman.
Obtainable at The Sjpiritusalit Newspaper Branch Office, London.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsie: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found’in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is ’under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
A LADY ARTIST, Spiritualist, and pupil of
Signor Belucci, Florence, and other schools, will, from
the 15th October, receive sitters for portraits in her studio,
Kensington. Moderate prices to mediums and Spiritualists.
WANTED BY A LADY (Medium) a re¬
spectable girl, of fourteen or fifteen, to train as
nursemaid for two little girls (ages three and two years).
Wages £6 per annum ; to be increased after six months’ training
and regularly so up to ten or twelve pounds per year; wash¬
ing and all found.—Apply first by letter, to Mrs. O. A., 4, The
Terrace, South Lancing, Sussex.
WL. CANEY, photographer. Studio
• opposite the Unity Church, 151, Upper-street,
Islington, London, N.
F HUDSON, photographer, earnestly desires
• EMPLOYMENT that will keep him and his family
from want. Having no premises that can be used for photo¬
graphy, he is forced to look to other means of gaining a liveli¬
hood, and is willing to undertake any other sort of work suited
to his capacity. Address—25, Covent-gardens, Notting-hill.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address 0.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.O.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
VJ ciown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the’ first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ’ will be posted for one year, pos
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Bublislung Office, E W. Allen’s. 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C.
Printed lor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
