Registered as A Newspaper,
SK® joiIS^KS^ otf f^YdSo^oGUda^ ^dis^Kdsi.
(flb-esf fl^fos^apr rxmmd^ Spritwalxsm xn <&xmt ^rifam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosquc 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 297.—(Vol. xii.—No. is.)
Contents.
New Revelations  .'  205
War.—The Lunacy Laws. By the Rev. W. Stainton-
Moses, M.A. ...  205
The Duke of Leuchtenberg    205
Dr. Slade’s Career on the Continent  ... 205
A Personal Declaration. By Gerald Massey. (Poetry.) ... 206
The Farewell Lectures of Dr. Peebles in Liverpool  207
Some Difficulties of Inquirers into Spiritualism. By M.A.
(Oxon):—My Introduction to Spiritualism—How 1
became a Spiritualist—Further Investigation—Con¬
firmatory Evidence—Private Experiments—Various
Inquirers and their Difficulties—^Pseudo-Scientific—
Theorists—The Ignorant—The Captious Critics—The
Spiritualists    208
Diagrammatic Records of Variations in the Weight of a
Medium during Manifestations   210
Weighing a Medium during the Production of Spiritual
Manifestations. By William H. Harrison:—Descrip¬
tion of the Apparatus used—Plan of the Room in
which the Seances are Held—The Recording of the
Phenomena Observed—The Nature of the Manifesta¬
tions Examined—Experimental Seance Number One
—Experimental Seance Number Two—Remarkable
Results of this Seance—^Experimental Seance Number
Three—Further Remarkable Results of Experiments
—The Testimony of Mr. G. O. load—What is the
Philosophy of the Results?..   211
Answers to Correspondents   ... 216
Paragraphs:—Mr. Williams and a Materialised Spirit,
206; Soiree of the Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism, 206 ; Spirit Identity, 206; The
Colouring of Spirit Messages, 206; Reception at Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory’s, 206; Mysterious Affair in Kil-
mallock          206
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ot Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;• His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Rirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. RobertWyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British Nationad Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
he “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London "; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A: Mrs. S. 0. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.O.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling*
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. 10d.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places■
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churehyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Gapucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Ohiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,London, W.C.
LONDON: FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1878.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
EASTER CLOSING.
The Offices at 38, Great Russell-street will be closed for the
Easter Holidays on Thursday, 18th inst., and reopened on
Monday, 29th inst.  
Calendar.
Tuesday, April 30th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5 p.m.
Wednesday,—Soirde at 38, Great Russell-street. Ad-
May Is#. dress by Rev. W. Stainton Moses on
“ Some of the Difficulties of Inquirers.”
Music, Conversation, and Refresh¬
ments. Commence at 7 p.m. Ad¬
mission to Members and Friends, Is.
each.
Friday, 3rd.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee's Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
Monday, 6th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m. Paper by Mr. J. W. Gray,
Member of the Research Committee.
Wednesday, 8th.—Inquirers’ Seance at 8 p.m., Mr. Eg¬
linton, medium.
Friday, 10th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Stance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
Tuesday, 11th.—Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m. Special
Council Meeting to follow. Motion
by Mrs. Lowe.
Wednesday, 13th.—Inquirers’ Seance at 8 p.m. Mr. Eg¬
linton, medium.
Friday, nth.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-noeth, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MISS ELLA & MR. FRANK DIETZ
WILL GIVE
R E C I T A T I O N S
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
During April and May, on
Wednesday Afternoons at 3 p.m. (beginning April 10th), and
Saturday Evenings at 8.15 p.m. (beginning April 13th),
N.B.—There will be no recitation May 8th.
Tickets maybe had at Mitchell’s library, 83, Old Bond-street;
Hayes’s box office, 199, Regent-street; at 'the Hall ; or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of fourteen recitations, one and a half guineas each. Single
tickets—Stalls, 3s.; chairs, 2s. ; balcony, Is.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 ot The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound In one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110.%
London : W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
IS IT TRUE?—Dr. Hugh McLeod will
presently (see future notices) be called upon by a com¬
mittee of ladies and gentlemen, organised for the purpose, to
deliver an intensely interesting course of lectures on the
philosophy of Ancient and Modern Spiritualism. Dr. McLeod
has investigated the entire subject, with the aid of the best
mediums in the world. All friends who may desire to assist
in any way will please address a line, in perfect confidence, to
M. M. B., Secretary to the Committee pro tern., 12, Hamilton-
street, Camden-town, N.W. Discussion will he invited and
demonstrations proposed.  
ESSO NS in French and Spanish, or English,
to Foreigners. Translations from the above Languages
also undertaken. . Address by letter, Viola, care of Miss
Burke, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
Now Ready, Price 2s. 6d.,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
The Spiritualists’ Quarterly, for April.
CONTENTS:—
Editor’s Address.
I.—Ethics of the New Age.
II.—^Experiences of Astrology in India.
III. —Mystical Poetry.
IV. —Modem Materialism.
V.—Dante and Beatrice.
• VI.—The Sentiment of Immortality.
VII.—A Seance with Mrs. Marshall.
VIII.—Pilgrimages in France. No. 1.—To Paray-le-Monial.
IX.—Psycography.
X.—Buddhism and Christianity.
XL—The Miracle Land.
E. W, Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C. 
ASTROLOGY. “ Worth its weight in gold.”
Every adult person living should purchase at once
“YOUR FUTURE FORETOLD,” a book of 144 pp., cloth, only
2s. 6d. London: Berger, Newcastle-street, and J. Burns; or
post-free of E. Casael, High-street, Watford, Herts. Instruc¬
tions to purchasers gratis.  
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office days—Tuesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 2 to 4 p.m. 
FOR THE TOILET. THE NURSERV, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal qf Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.   
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be ■ worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of iuterest and recreation,
besides saving you -time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, Jrom £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—8, LudgateCircus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, r‘HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.
post free, seven stamps.  
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildmgs. Chancery-lane, W.Oj
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
 FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT. Manager.
AS AMANUENSIS OR READER —A
WIDOW, 53, well informed, plays and sings agree¬
ably, and writes a swift and legible hand. Would enjoy
rendering assistance in literary pursuits of any kind, and is
deeply interested in Psychology. Remuneration not of first
importance. R., 18, Bromfelde-terrace, Clapham,
11
THE SPIRITUALIgT.
Mat 3, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION pF'
spiritualist^.'
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calderj Esfl., 1, (lereford-gquare, Ejoutji Kensington, S.W.
. V^-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parltfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fltz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Massey, c. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Eogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finehlev, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Ashton. E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, ,Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., lateofH.M.S. “Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lyuton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
‘ heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. fi., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S E.
Green, O. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hlil, Kent.
Hayle, Thos.,M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.l O.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 1‘99, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, PlaiStow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. w. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould, Rev. W W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’S-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Relmers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-rdad, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redclifle-garderis, West Brompton,
S.W.'
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock. St. George, M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blnckheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale,'W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavehdish-Square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds. *
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq,, 1, Hereford-
square. West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Grme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’S-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J • H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, ESq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjC Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, T, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastian© FenzI, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien; Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., 11 ammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie.Wimllle, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Driimmond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M .D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes; Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Ehjnnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson.Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq.. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxel'es.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A t
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athehee.Ilue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
Tjoiipon, N. W. ♦!
Cantairi'R. E, Burton, F.R.p.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A.R. Wallace, Esij., F.R.GJs., Rosehul, forking ft" .
Isaac E.Ri'ch'i Es'q;,'9, Montgofktefr-plaqe, Boston, CT.S.A. ’
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honored Paris.' ■ 1
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjqs, Hungary.
d- Wl Day,\Esqr,'9,•Montgomcry-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. IJaIfock,v54, Deipiign-streef, BeigrUrtre-rO^d, S.WV
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-stfeet.Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. fi. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York,
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society.1. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Jbsefstadt Efzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth; Hungary.
Dalsto n Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Biyton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston-Iane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi-
dent—El yisconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
ASTROLOGY, a Popular Sketch of
Celestial Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J.
Pearee, author of ‘ the Weather Guide Book, &c. Price
Is. 6d. Sent post'free by the author'on receipt of stamps;
address, 3, Oedars-terrace, Queen’s-road, South Lambeth, S.W.
The TEXT' BOOK OF ASTROLOGY, by the same author,
is now preparing for publication. Vol. I. will contain the
complete rules, and alb tables necessary for calculating Na¬
tivities on the Placidian method improved by Zadkiel, by
spherical trigonometry (the only reliable and truly scientific
method). To subscribers the price will be 7s. the first Volume.
Intending subscribers will please send their orders to the
author. ■
Price Sixpence.
The untrustworthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of fiis book on MesrAerism, Spiritualism,
&c., Historically and Sdentificdlly Considered. Ry Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science. '
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM upon the SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is. ‘
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten.' A companion book'to
Poems of the Inner Life; Ts. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of "the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the. rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrajed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London : Spirit¬
ualist Office.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE, a narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Oolby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Oolhy, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientifle subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, <fcc., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
M£. C. |j. flLLIAMS,
|1, £A]$B’S conduit street, w.o.
At hginq daily from 12 till g/ On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evemhgs'from 8 0’eiock for reception of friends.
  Address as above.  
3VfR. J. YY flmheet
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLAOfi,' BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON1.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. W. EGLINTON
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
  S.W;  
MRS. GLARA DEARBORN
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
Hours from 10 to'4. ”
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially ’with rheumatics, tumours
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as Communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick -at their homes. 1 ■
MRS. O. E. BASSETT,
9, chqbham terrace, ohobham road, Stratford
;' LoypoN, E. ": '
M£. J. W. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
THANpE SPEAKER. ' For terms and dates address
—Elni Tree-terrace, pvtoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual'literature. 
MDLLE. HIJET, good Afedium for Raps.
At home from 12 io 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris'.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Afedium, desires
e engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N. . ’   
CURATIVE MESMERISM.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER,
(33 years established),
Attends Patients, and may be consulted at his residence daily
"from 2 till 5,
10, BERKELEY GARDENS, OAMPDEN HILL, KEN¬
SINGTON.'"  : " '
Private Lessons in the art of Mesmerising. His Pamphlet
on “ Gurative Mesmerism,” 7th Edition, -price Is.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements' to deliver Orations, &c., in
Lopdon or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience^ if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
MISS MANGELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at tb eir homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
RS. WOODFORDE, Developing andHeal-
. ’ ing. Medical advice to ladies and Children. Terms
modified tb suit circumstances. Days.and hours1 of business—•
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russeli-streef, Bloomsbury, W.O.
MISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 40, St. Mary’s-terrace, Maida-hill West, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE' CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit' through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISE. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAJLOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Heb Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. S per cent for cash.
8, HANMER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, S.W.
GENTLEWOMAN, living within two
minutes’ walk pf the Crystal Palace Grounds) offers a
comfortable quiet Residence with superior Board to a Lady.
Terms moderate.’ References exchanged. By letter—H. O.,
care of Charles Lewis, Esq., 7, Jasmine-grove, Penge, S.E.
M
% yijxrigr^ tA i|| nvfc tA ^ptijiiurfbtn*
Vot.ujvie TwEjLVEi Number JEJiqhteen.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 3rd, 1878.
NEW REVELATIONS.
Every new discovery sheds fresh rays of light upon
previously known facts, and the results of the experiments
described in this number of The Spiritualist are no excep¬
tion to the rule. The somewhat common phenomenon of
the floating of mediums in the air becomes more compre¬
hensible now that it is revealed that spirits in taking vital
energy and ponderability from a medium during a stance
can reduce the weight of his body to at least 25 lbs.; how
much lowbr we know not yet. With this revelation the
frequent floating in the air of Mr. Eglintoh at the house of
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory and elsewhere is brought more
within the realms of known law, more in harmony with
mental objections to apparent infractions of the law of the
conservation of energy. Ihe same remarks apply to the
case in which Dr. Maurice Davies, author of Unorthodox
London^ felt Mr. Home all over when lie was floating in
the air in the house of Mr. S. C. Hall, and to the case
narrated by The Lord Lindsay, in an article in The
Spiritualist, in which he told the readers of these pages
that he had seen Mr. Home float out of one window at the
top of a high house, and in again at another. Dr.
Carpenter sought to impugn this last narrative, and to do
so upon anonymous authority, an ungenflemanly way of
dealing with serious subjects and with honourable men.
WAR.—THE LUNACY LAWS.
BY THE REV. W, ST^INTOK-MOSES, M.A.
I hope Spiritualists will keep in view these two matters,
War and the Lunacy Laws.
We pride ourselves on being a free and enlightened
people; and so we are, in some respects, and when our
purely animal and money-grubbing instincts and our
prejudices do not step in. "
But when they do, and this they are doing portentously
now in both politics and religion, observe what happens.
Enlightened Englishmen are not sufficiently wise to see
that they are being driven into war because the army
wants to justify its existence; because some journalists
rave; because the strangely Oriental genius who has forced
his rule on the aristocracy of England, while he mocks' and
flouts them openly, would finish his bizarre career in a
blaze of blue fire fqr which the British shopkeeper may
pay. And it seems extremely probable that Englishmen
will be silly enpugh to obey; npt seeing that war of all
kinds is a barbarous anachronism, and that this war, of all
its kind, is the wickedest and most indefensible.
Free Englishmen, valuing their own liberty as their
choicest possession, will stand by and look on while a lady,
sane as any of themselves, is locked up in a madhouse,
on the information of any secret spy who may worm out
of her, by means on which all English honesty and honour
should cry shame, opinions which chance to be unpopular.
I should have thought that Englishmen would summarily
disown and discountenance such unmanly tactics ; and so
they would, if they were only introduced into their daily
lives sufficiently often for them to see their outcome—the
sapping of that national character for uprightness and
downrightness of which we boast ourselves.
I should have thought that to treat a person as insane,
because we disagree with her opinions, is a manifest con¬
fession of our inability to combat them in any other way.
And I should have thought that the mad doctors with
their tactics, their entrapping into admissions, and all their
paraphernalia of torture, are more suited to the age of the
Inquisition than to this epoch of sweetness and light.
It was right that The Spiritualist, as the organ of those
who are at least more acquainted with free thought and
rational act than those who condemn their opinions as
evidence of insanity, should protest against such words and
deeds ; and I trust that whatever a man may think about
Spiritualism and its moot questions, he will have no
difficulty in joining heart and soul in any effort to prevent
these detestable tactics from succeeding.
I THE DUKE OF LEUCHTENBERG.
The Duke Nicolas, of Leuchtenberg, hon. mem. of the
I British National Association of Spiritualists, is one of the
five or six European princes who was announced to take
official part in the opening of the Paris Exhibition. He is
the eldest son of the recently deceased Grand Duchess Mary
(sister of the Emperor of Russia), and of the Duke Maxi¬
milian, of Leuchtenberg, son of the Prince Eugene Beau-
harnais, nephew of Queen Hortense, and grandson of the
Empress Josephine, first wife to Napoleon I. This relation¬
ship to the Emperor of Russia and to the Bonapartes is
i rather odd. He is a distinguished, kind-hearted, learned
! young man; mineralogy is one of his specialities, and
I in these pages he has expressed his special interest in some
; of the religious doctrines of Spiritualism prevalent in
| Europe. As GMral d la Suite to the Emperor of Russia,
| he does military service occasionally. During the last war
| he was attached for a time to the column of General Gourko
j during the dangerous reconnoitring expedition in July across
the Balkans to Kazanlyk and Eskisagra. During the retreat
of this column before the entire army of Suleiman, the
Duke of Leuchtenberg commanded the rear, and had to
stand for a whole day with a few battalions only, against
the whole Turkish force, losing in the bloody battle nearly
two-thirds of his troops, mostly Bulgarian volunteers; he
behayed most gallantly. The World some time since
announced that there were differences between him and
General Gourko; if so, they were much exaggerated in St.
| Petersburg. The Duke of Leuchtenberg is a firm and
I serious Spiritualist. Prince Serge, of Leuchtenberg, killed
| . last summer, was the duke’s second brother, aged twenty-
| seven.
DR. SLADE’S CAREER ON THE CONTINENT.
Since leaving England, Dr. Slade has been to Leipzig,
where he gave stances to the Professors at the University,
with the result that Mr. Zollner, Professor of Astronomy,
| has certified in the last Quarterly Journal of Science, that in
I Slade’s presence, in the light, knots came upon an endless
| cord brought and held by the professor, without Slade’s
| touching the cord. At Berlin, after giving a stance to the
| Chief of the Police, he gave a series to Samuel Bellachini,
Court Conjurer to the Emperor of Germany, who afterwards
made oath before a public notary that the phenomena were
real and not conjuring tricks. He then went to St. Peters-
| burg, where he gave many stances to the Grand Duke
Constantine, also to the Hon. A. Aksakof and Professor
| Boutlerof. The Grand Duke Constantine obtained writing
| upon one of his own slates, quite new, and while he held it
in his own hands. He expressed himself greatly pleased.
The following letter gives some interesting additional
I , particulars:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—We left St. Petersburg on the 19th inst., and
I arrived here on the 21st. Now that we have fulfilled the
] engagement at St. Petersburg, I write to inform you of our
! plans for the future. We have decided that I return with
I my daughter to America, as soon as we can make the
j necessary arrangements. On the 1st of May Dr. Slade will
| go to Leipzig, and spend some days with the professors
j there, who are desirous of further opportunities of continuing
their investigations..
206
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 3, 1878.
Towards the latter part of June Dr. Slade expects to sail
with his niece for Australia, and eventually to return to
America, via San Francisco, where I am to meet him on his
arrival.
It is thought that the long sea voyage, with the rest from
giving stances, may restore his nervous system, which has
never fully recovered from the shock caused by the trial in
London.
Everything passed off pleasantly in St. Petersburg, and I
trust much good has been done.
On the 17th, two days before we left, Dr. Slade received
a very handsome present, which we regard as a mark of
appreciation: it consists of an elegant gold watch and chain,
with a locket set with diamonds, also three diamond cluster
rings, and a pair of sleeve buttons also richly set in
diamonds.
They all came in a silver case, addressed to Dr. Slade.
By whom presented we do not know. J. Simmons.
Hotel Kronprinz, Berlin, April 24th, 1878.
The annual general meeting of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists will shortly take place, and those private members of it who
desire to move resolutions affecting its future actions should give notice
thereof to the secretary within the next few days, or they will be too
late. If private members required that they should be informed hence¬
forth how their representatives vote at divisions, the step would be in
favour of ordinary constitutional management, and would aid them
next year in selecting members of the Council.
The Colouring of Spirit Messages.—In some spirit messages,
though not in all, the minds of the communicating spirit and of the
medium are most confusedly mixed up, and Swedenborg’s explanation
of the fact may have much truth in it. The Christian World of last
week says :—“ H. J. Whiteside, of Hock Perry, Cheshire, quotes from
Swedenborg’s Apocalypse Explained, to show that communication
with the spirits of the dead is attended with danger to the soul, as
spirits speak in accordance with the human thought with which they
may be, for the time, conjoined, and may, consequently, confirm men
in the gravest errors.”
Reception at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s.—The late Professor
Gregory, of Edinburgh University, has left a lasting mark in psycho¬
logical science, by authoritatively promulgating the truths of mesmerism
when it was unpopular to do so ; his widow, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory,
has continued to forward the same truths to this day, and in various
ways to efficiently aid the cause of modern Spiritualism. Last
Wednesday night she gave a reception to a few Spiritualistic and other
friends at 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London. The guests
present were the Ven. Archdeacon Dunbar, in whose church of St.
Andrew’s, Tavistock-square, a Church of England clergyman, Dr.
Maurice Davies, dared for the first time to endorse the reality of the
phenomena of modern Spiritualism from the pulpit; Mrs. Dunbar ; the
Hon. Colonel Ogilvie Grant and Mrs. Grant; Mr. Magill Crichton j
Lady Yere Cameron; Mr. Tamplin; General Brewster; Mr. Wood ;
Mr. and Miss Ottley; Miss Emmet; Mr. Annesley Mayne; Sir
Patrick and Lady Colquhoun; the Hon. Mrs. Forbes; Mr. J. T.
Peele, R.A.; Miss Parker; Miss Spencer; and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Mr. Tamplin, late organist at the church of the Rev. H. R. Haweis,
gave some music of exceptionally good quality upon the harmonium.
Mysterious Affair in Kilmallock.—A correspondent of the Cork
Examiner tells the following singular story :—About a fortnight since
the Rev. Mr. Dea, Protestant curate in Kilmallock, who resides a short
distance from the town, between the Old Blossom Gate and the mansion
house of Ash Hill Towers, heard, or fancied that he heard, a knock at
his door at about twelve o’clock at night. He opened the window of his
bedroom, and asked was he wanted. Getting no reply he retired,
and in a short time the knock was repeated. He again opened the
window, but with a like result, The next night the knocking was
again heard, and Mr. Dea then made a report to the police that some
persons were annoying him. On the third night two policemen went to
the scene, and lay in ambush near the house. They heard nothing until
Mr. Dea raised the window and asked—Did they hear anything ? adding
that he heard the knocking going on at a fearful rate. The police
entered the house, and they also plainly heard the noise. They
returned to barracks, but the constable (a Protestant) could not be
convinced of the noise being in the house. On the next night he went
there, and also waited in ambush, but heard nothing until he entered
the house, when there was the noise rising from a “ dead ” knock until it
reached tbe rumbling noise like that made by a heavily-weighted cart.
After this many Protestants of the town, accompanied by Mr. Weldon,
J.P., went to the house, and they all heard the noise as described, and
explored every room and corner—even an old garret in the house
(through which one of the exploring party fell). When they went to
the room where the noise was supposed to be heard, it was then heard
in another. One or two persons were then put in each room, and the
noise then seemed as if proceeding from the walls. The noise still
continues to be heard, commencing sometimes as early as nine p.m., and
at others not until about 12, and continues until about four o’clock.
Many are the surmises as to the nature of the affair, but, of course, no
opinion on the matter can be advanced. Therefore, I merely state the
facts as I know them.—Dublin Daily Express, April 10th, 1878. ■..
A PERSONAL DECLARATION.
BY GERALD MASSEY.
No! no. My Lord of Beaconsfield,
You are not the kind of man to wield
The weight of England’s sword and shield.
No ! no. Too sacred is the Flag,
For flaunting like a Bull-ring rag,
Above your game of Bully-Brag.
No! no. Far better it ceased to wave
There, with the dead, suspended, safe
In dust enough to be its grave.
No 1 no. We guard a golden crown,
Rich with the stamp of old renown;
The Jews would sweat or smelt it down.
No! no. You have led us to the ridge
Of the Abysm, and like a midge
Would cross it. We shall need a bridge!
No ! no. Tho’ painted for the path
Of War, you had better take a bath :
Let Harlequin now sheathe his lath.
No ! no. Our England, made to don
The mask of a face, with her true one
Shall laugh you into oblivion.
No! no. We do not mean to fight
For Murderer and Sodomite;
Born enemies of all that’s right.
No! no. If you must end the play
With some blood-letting policy, pray
You follow that of Castlereagh.
April 29th, 1878.
An amusing article by Prince Wittgenstein, on animals in the spirit-world,
will appear in the next Spiritualist.
Mr. and Miss Simmons will be in New York two or three days after this
number of The Spiritualist reaches that city.
Mr. Williams and a Materialised Spirit.—A picture of Mr. Williams
and a materialised spirit is issued with this number of The Spiritualist. The
artist has idealised the spirit John King, more especially in the transparency
and voluminousness of the drapery. With this exception; the cut serves to
give a general idea of the way in which John King sometimes appears in an
open circle without a cabinet, as described on several occasions by responsible
witnesses in these pages. Mr. Williams is better looking than represented in
the cut.
Spirit Identity.—Herr Christian Reimers, of Richmond, has sent a certifi¬
cate to Mr. C. E. Williams, the medium, to the effect that a few days ago he
(Mr. Reimers) took his brother-in-law, who the day before had arrived from
Hamburg, to a stance, at which Mr. Williams stated that he saw the spirit of
a woman in the room. The spirit % Peter ” then said that it was the spirit of
Mr. Reimers’ sister, and was related to his friend ; she appeared to be dripping
with water. The truth was, that Mr. Reimers’ sister, the wife of his friend,
met her death by drowning; and Mr. Reimers is convinced that Mr. Williams
could not have obtained by natural means this and other information about
his family affairs given at the siance.
Capt. R. F. Burton, honorary member of the British National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists, has terminated his explorations in the “ Land
of Midian,” and is now at Cairo, en route for England. -
Soiree of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.
—Last Monday evening a conversazione was held by the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-
lane, London, E. The company began to assemble at half-past seven
o’clock; the attendance was one of the largest for many years past.
Among those present were Mrs. Corner, the Misses Corner, Mrs.
Elgie Corner, Mr. E. J. Davey, Mr. Thos. Dowsing, Mr. R. A.
March, Mr. and Mrs. Thos. Weeks, Madame Ourry, Mr. G. R. Tapp,
Mr. and Mrs. R. Pearce, Messrs. C. H. and H. R. Robertson, Mr. and
Mrs. E. J. Manico, Mr. A. Rita, Mr. and Mrs. George Worth, Mr. T.
E. Larking, Mrs. and Miss Everitt, Mr. J. Tozeland, Dr. A. B. Benson,
Mr. W. J. Colville, Mr. and Mrs. Herne, Messrs. H. J. and G.
Derham, Mr. and Miss Cocker, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Blyton, Mr.
Samuel Bear, Miss M. McKellar, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, Mr. H.
West, Mr. John Cooper, Mr. J. Conner, Mr. and Mrs. S. Williams, Mrs.
Norrington, and others. The proceedings began at eight o’clock under
the presidency of Mrs. Corner, who reviewed the past winter series of
fortnightly meetings. The programme of the evening comprised vocal
. and instrumental music, recitals, and inspection of objects of interest to
investigators into Spiritualism: The following friends took part in
entertaining the company :—Madame Ourry, Mrs. Norrington, Misa
Cocker, Miss McKellar, Messrs. George Worth, H. Rogers Robertson,
Charles H. Robertson, H. J. Derham, R. A. March, E. J. Davey, W. J.
Colville, and Thomas Blyton. Dancing commenced at about ten o’clock,
and was kept up until a late hour. Refreshments were served through¬
out the evening, and the proceedings were much enjoyed by the
numerous friends present. In the course of the evening letters of regret
at inability to attend were read from Signor Enrico Rondi, Mr. W. H.
Harrison (who was out of town), Dr. T. L. Nichols, Mrs. Weldon, and
Miss Kislingbury.—Thomas Blyton, Tlon, Sec.
May 3, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
207
THE FAREWELL LECTURES OF DR. PEEBLES IN
LIVERPOOL.
An excellent gathering of the old faces, with a sprinkling of new
ones, was present in Liverpool to hear the farewell utterances of Dr.
Peebles before his departure for America. Two lectures were delivered
by him last Sunday at the Concert Hall in Lord Nelson-street. Mr.
Green, of Harrogate, Mr. John Lament, of Liverpool, and Mr. Burns
supported Dr. Peebles on the platform; Mr. Ainsworth, late of Bury,
occupied the chair during the afternoon services. Mr. Ainsworth
introduced the lecturer in a short address, in which he referred to Dr.
Peebles “ as a renowned traveller for truth’s sake,” who would tell them
what he had seen of “ Spiritualism in China, India, and Palestine.”
Dr. Peebles was greeted with a round of hearty applause at the
offset of his lecture. He remarked that he had great difficulty in con¬
densing his observations, or in selecting from the scenes of life and
character he had witnessed in his journeys twice round the world. The
audience before him reminded him of audiences he had seen in the
East—in Constantinople, Cairo, and Madras—inasmuch as there were
so few ladies present. The English were justly proud of their Poet-
Laureate ; the Americans were equally fond of their Longfellow, who
had said, “ Life is real and life is earnest ”—no rest this side of the
grave, but a life of labour, earnestness, unfoldment, and development.
The Anglo-Saxon was a traveller in every sense of the word; the world
had been mapped out by him; its dark recesses brought to light by him;
he travelled for truth’s sake, to unravel and to investigate. His (Dr.
Peebles’) own object in travelling was to study human nature, to add to
human knowledge, and to take from Western nations their conceit; he
had found men in his joumeyings who were far superior to the Anglo-
Saxons in many things, as the Anglo-Saxons were to them in others.
They called the inhabitants of those countries where he had sojourned
“ heathens; ” they returned the compliment by calling us barbarians.
He loved the heathen, and in some things considered it an honour to
sit at their feet and learn from them. The lecturer then conducted his
audience into the city of Melbourne, and in graphic language described
its inhabitants, and the scenery and characteristics of the surrounding
country. He told of its remarkable freedom from epidemics, and narrated
his experiences when there, his lectures, persecution, misrepresentations,
and ultimate success; the great audiences he finally had in the Prince
of Wales’ Theatre, and in the Melbourne Spiritual Lyceum, to listen to
his lectures on Spiritualism. He regretted that there was no Spiritual
Lyceum in Liverpool; the Spiritualists at the antipodes were un¬
doubtedly in advance of England in that respect. Referring to New
Zealand, Dr. Peebles mentioned a fact which he considered an honour
to England while it was a disgrace to America, viz., The New Zealand
House of Representatives had in it four of the natives (Maories) to | |
represent and speak for their people, whilst no Indian yet had been | |
allowed to appear and plead the cause of his unhappy tribe in the |1|
Senate of the United States Congress. Speaking of the “Heathen 1
Chinee,” but not “Ah Sin,” he stated that the Chinese, upon rising in j
the morning, rinsed their mouths, cleaned their teeth, and scraped j|
their tongues—“a habit that would do us no harm in following.” j
Phrenology and physiognomy seemed to be understood by the j
Chinese. He saw a volume on these subjects published by one I
Le-con-tse 3000 before Christ, and thus far in advance of Gall
and Combe. When he arrived in Canton, and noticed the queer people
walking about with umbrellas and fans in their hands, he felt that he
was in a strange place. He never saw a Chinaman in a hurry, and (
there were no lunatics in China. In the United States everybody was }
in a hurry, and there were plenty of lunatics. What was the inference? J
The United States Consul, who has resided in Canton for four years, (
declared that although there were over a million inhabitants in Canton [
he never saw a drunken Chinaman! So much for the heathen. If |
they wanted to see drunkenness, debauchery, and wretchedness, they
would find them to perfection in all Christian countries, England and 1
America especially. The principal sects in China were the Buddhists,
the freethinkers founded by Laotse, and the Confucians. He had many (
conversations with Buddhist priests concerning God, heaven, hell, and
the Nirvana. The learned abbot, or head priest, would not shake hands
with him because he was an American, and Americans were swine 1
eaters ; therefore unclean. . Buddhists do not drink spirits, eat swine’s ]
flesh, or engage in aggressive wars; Anglo-Saxons had much to learn i
from the heathen. Ceylon, India, Egypt, and Turkey all came under 1
the survey of Dr. Peebles. He told of spiritual phenomena, white and
black magic, seances in Canton, and devil exorcising in Ceylon, con¬
firming the fact that spiritual phenomena, like silver threads, are found (
among all the peoples of the East. The lecture lasted an hour and a J
quarter, and Dr. Peebles sat down amidst a shower of applause.
Mr. Bums then addressed the meeting.
Mr. Green, of Harrogate, paid a graceful tribute to Dr. Peebles as a J
traveller, a gentleman, and a scholar, from an acquaintance with him of i
over twenty years’ standing. i
The afternoon proceedings then closed. J
At the evening lecture and reception Messrs. Shepherd, Lament,
Green, and Burns were on the platform—Mr. Lamont in the chair.
The proceedings were opened with singing, and the reading of a portion
of Scripture by the chairman, relating to the voyage of St. Paul
(17th chap. Acts, 10th and following verses). The speaker then
enlarged upon the sudden conversion of Saul of Tarsus by spiritual
phenomena, his personal knowledge thereof, and his clairvoyant and
clairaudient gifts. He sincerely hoped that men in these days would
come to a knowledge of the science of Spiritualism, just as they acquired
any other science. He would say with Paul, “ Let every man be fully
persuaded in their own mind,” and for this purpose those meetings were
got up; the promoters wished that the public might “ come to a know¬
ledge of the truth ” of Spiritualism. Then they would be able to speak
that which they knew. Paul spoke with authority in the past, and Dr.
Peebles would do the same in the present. Paul spoke from what he
knew, so would their lecturer and guest. The chairman concluded his
opening remarks by stating that “ the mission of Spiritualism was to kill
superstition by knowledge.”
A hymn was sung; Dr. Peebles then delivered an eloquent lecture on
“ The Good or Use of Spiritual Manifestations.’’ The lecturer took for
granted that Spiritualism was true, and he proceeded logically to prove
that man was a spirit, not that he had a spirit; he contended that the
spiritual was the real, and that matter was shadowy, unlasting. He very
much doubted the existence of matter at all. The spirit was the real
man, not the body; the body was simply the shell the man carried
about with him, which body was constantly changing, as physiologically
demonstrated. Then death came. Did man die with the body ? Was
there a life beyond? What proof had they of it? The old man
dwindles down into second childhood, becomes idiotic. “ There,” cried
the Materialist, triumphantly, “ you see the mind goes down with the
body—if so, man is as a dog. The buzzing fly and the man he stings
come to the same end.” How degrading the thought—yet who was to
throw light upon the subject ? The Church ? No; she had no answer.
Nature ? She, with all her beauty and stupendous grandeur, was dumb.
Where should they seek an answer P By turning to the spirit. Let
them hear the voice of the departed mother, as she told her child of her
living presence, of her nearness to her own, and of her life in the bright
beyond—in the summer lands of glory. All this by spiritual gifts, by
j vision, and by trance, might be obtained in the present as in the past.
! When John in Patmos declared “ I heard music in Heaven,” he heard
I clairaudiently and saw clairvoyantly, then recorded the results obtained,
i Socrates was never tired of telling the wise men that his body was not
J himself; and whenCrito asked him how he should be buried, he told his
j friend to bury him where he liked, provided he could catch him. He
j (Dr. Peebles) had made a study of mesmerism, biology, and psychology,
all of which he found powerful aids to the study of man ; but men must
1 turn to modern Spiritualism for demonstration that man does not die
i with the body, that there is a life beyond the grave. Spiritualism
'j demonstrated that those we loved on earth, whose bodies were now
'j mouldering in the grave, were living, were near, and that they would be
rejoined and recognised in the life beyond. Some might say—What is
the use of this ? But the profound thinker first inquired—Is it true ?
Thomas Carlyle said, “Just in the ratio that knowledge increases, faith
decreases.” Spiritualism supplied that knowledge which faith now longed
for. Dr. Peebles related some of his wonderful experiences in Spiritualism
with mediums during a period of twenty-five years. The following is
an instanceMiss Sarah A. Webster, a writing medium, wrote auto¬
matically with both hands at the same time, on different subjects, in her
apparently normal condition, chatting and laughing all the time. She
wrote with her left hand, say, on inspiration ; with her right on pro¬
foundly scientific subjects. He had seen these things, and he con¬
sidered that he would be a fool if he could not believe what he had con¬
stantly seen with his eyes, heard with his ears, yea, handled with his
hands. The first use of Spiritualism was to give knowledge for faith.
He years ago preached a funeral sermon over the body of a child, the
only one; the father of the child rebaptised it with his tears, which fell
upon the placid corpse. The mother’s grief was too deep for tears. The
whole tenor of his funeral sermon was, “Have faith in God, in Christ,
in the Atoning Blood,” but he could not answer the mother’s question,
“ Where is my child ? ” It was her only darling. Had he then been
acquainted with Spiritualism he could have answered the question.
Spiritualism drove away the fear of death, hell, and all the horrors of
theology, which might frighten men, but would never make men more
noble, true, Christ-hke, than they were at present. Spiritualism replaced
faith by knowledge. The second use was that it gave a correct idea of life
beyond the grave. Dr. Peebles enlarged upon the heaven and hell of
the Christians, the seven hells and seven heavens of the Mohammedans,
the “ many mansions ” of Jesus, and the “ spheres ” of the Spiritualist,
every man going to that place or condition for which he was best adapted
as the outcome of his life on earth. Spiritualism informed men what
became of the infants in the other life; of idiots and suicides. Thirdly
and lastly, the great use of Spiritualism was that it came back as a
practical power to redeem and reform mankind. The fear of God,
death, hell, or Moody might frighten men, but never truly reform them.
All men were brethren, and the lowest of the race was a child of God.
Man must be reformed by the power of love and kindness. Dr. Peebles
finished his oration with the sincere hope that each and all would make
Spiritualism their study, work out its principles in their lives, and if he
did not meet them on earth again, it was to be hoped they
would all meet in the Summer Lands of Heaven, clad in the pure and
white raiment of a true and Christ-like life, where congregations never
broke up, and the sun of eternal progress never ceased to shine.
Mr. Shepherd moved, Mr. Burns seconded, and Mr. Green supported
a vote of thanks to Dr. Peebles, which was carried with acclamation,
and the proceedings closed.
There was an animated scene in the Concert Hall at the close of the
lecture; a host of well-wishers of Dr. Peebles pressed round to have a
parting shake of the hand. Earnest wishes were uttered for his return
to this country.
Mr. Green, of Harrogate, in his speech in support of a vote of
thanks to Dr. Peebles, suggested the necessity of forming a fund to
sustain men who worked so disinterestedly, frequently without any
pecuniary reward.
On Monday morning Dr. Peebles, accompanied by Mr. and Mrs.
Green, of Harrogate, and Mr. John Lamont, visited the Gallery of
Illustration, Lime-street. Mr. J. Coates did the honours of the place.
By Electric Telegraph.
Liverpool, April 30th.
A gloomy, rainy day. The sun’s rays shut out by heavy clouds and
fog. The weather seems to represent the general feeling of all who
208
THE SPlRlTtALIST.
May 3, 1878.
met to-day to bid Dr. Peebles farewell; to wish him a safe voyage
across the Atlantic, strength for his labours, and success in the future
in his career as an efficient propagandist of Spiritualism. Dr. Peebles
was accompanied to the steamer Nova Scotia, by Mr. and Mrs. Green,
of Harrogate, Mr. John Lament, and Mr. J. Coates.
SOME DIFFICULTIES OF INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
BY M.A. (OXON).
In dealing with an inquirer’s difficulties, I must draw upon other
sources of information than my own personal experience. For myself,
although I have met many a difficulty since, I had at first no considerable
trouble in making myself acquainted with the facts of Spiritualism. It
is in the explanation of facts that the perplexing problems come in. As
to the phenomena themselves, though many persons do seem to find it
very difficult to obtain the evidence of their own senses, and still more
to believe that evidence when they have got it, I found myself in risk
of being bewildered only by the superabundance of phenomena which
challenged my attention.
MY INTRODUCTION TO SPIRITUALISM
was in this wise. In the early part of the year 1872 some friends with
whom I was then staying showed me Lord Adare’s book of records of
seances with D. D. Home. I tried to read it, but it seemed to me the
dreariest twaddle I had ever come across. With many a pish and
pshaw I got through half of it, and then tossed it aside. About six i
weeks after, my friend put into my hand one of Dale Owen’s books, With
a request that I would read it, and investigate the matters with which
it dealt. It was with much reluctance that I agreed to meddle with the
question again. It did not interest me, and I was busy with other
things. In spite, however, of this passive want of interest (active or
dogmatic opposition had no place in my mind), I found myself greatly
impressed with Mr. Owen’s statements and arguments. From whatever
cause, whether internal spiritual preparation or intellectual conviction,
I found myself impelled with irresistible power to use every means of
inquiring into the alleged phenomena which were so startling to my |
mind. i
I procured every book that I could lay my hands on, and devoured
them all with avidity. I inquired where I could see for myself these i ]
new phenomena, and was informed that Miss Lottie Fowler was about j
to hold a seance that very evening (April 2, 1872) at 15, Southampton- j
row. I went, and was greatly astonished at what I saw and heard. I I
need not take up time by detailing the occurrences of the first part of the
sitting: most of you are familiar with the usual routine of Miss
Fowler’s seances. Much hazy nonsense was talked, and many vague j
statements made, which seemed to me to be of no use whatever as tests
of spirit identity. I was rapidly becoming nauseated. I craved for j
something more clear, something on which I could rest as a stable j
piece of evidence. I inquired, therefore, whether I might endeavour to I
obtain some such proof for myself. Leave was at once given by the
director of the circle, and I addressed the spirit who controlled the j
medium.
“ You’re tiring your medium, and making fun of us. Go and send
some one who is serious.’’
The medium shivered, and turned away, and the voice came as
though troubled. !
“ You’ve nothing to do with me. I won’t go. Me no go.”
“ Yes, you will. You’ll go, and send some one else.”
After more colloquy, the medium again shivered, seemed to be i
in pain, and stood rooted to the spot, crouching as if in dread.
After a time the voice came again, but utterly changed; the
voice, this time, of a man, very calm and unimpassioned, instead of the
child-voice speaking baby-jargon.
<( You want me ?”
• “ Yes. What is your name ?”
“ I’d rather not tell you. You can ask me any questions.”
“ No. Tell me what you see, or describe any one whom yoii see near
me. I will answer yes or no; no more.”
“ I see a man, very old, tall, with a long white beard, and long hair.” i
“ Yes.”
“ The beard is very white indeed.”
“No. Goon.”
“ He has a very high broad forehead, and his eyes are drawn down. (\
Why, he’s blind! ” [ i
“ Yes.” 11
“And his face is black and blue. And-(here the medium shuddered [j
violently), oh'.-what’s that in his mouth? It’S like slime .... and <
mud .... and . ... . oh! blood.”
“Yes,”
“And .' . . . It’s dark.' I can’t see.”
“Goon. How is he dressed?” j
“ He has on a long blue coat. No, not exactly a coat, . . . something )
long. I can’t see his feet.” )
“Where does he stand?” (
“ Right opposite; close by you.” ;
“ Can you see his name ?” , . )
“ No. He seems in trouble. I think it’s money. He looks so j
horrible. Let me go! Why do you keep me here P ” j,|
“ Go, then. Do you know me ?” v j j
“ No.” (This very emphatically.), , j {
I shall not attempt to describe the scene during the time that this j)
conversation was being held. I have quoted from a full and careful j (
record written at the time, and the whole scene is photographed i)
indelibly on my mind. Everyone seemed petrified and astonished. j|
They would have been still more so, had they known with what photo- ;|y
graphic accuracy a scene in my own private experience was being j [
re-enacted before my eyes. It was, I am sure, unknown absolutely to i)
any person in the room, as unknown as I was myself. It was a scene
that passed in a very distant part of Great Britain, and it was repro¬
duced with a realistic power that bore down before it, as with torrent-
force, all doubt and hesitation. I felt that the man was there before
me; himself reproducing the story of his death for my conviction.
HOW I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
That experience made me a Spiritualist,: it gave me a faith—I will
say a "knowledge—which no amount of after experience has served tb
shake. From that time to this I have never wavered, though I have
seen much to perplex me, much that greatly offends good taste,
Though I have heard of deception, and though I believe that fraud
exists; though I see reason to question the all round conclusions of
some Spiritualists, and to assign a wider ,area to the realm of cause
than they are disposed to concede; though I meet problems day by day
which I cannot solve, and difficulties which only advanced knowledge
and experience can fully grasp: in spite of all this, the conclusion of
that night, supported and confirmed by many an after experience,
remains firm and unshaken.
FURTHER INVESTIGATION.
I might detain you at length, which would be tedious, by dwelling on
the steps by which further evidence was brought home to my mind. I
Went to the public stances held by Herne and Williams, and found no
difficulty in obtaining phenomena fbr observation. They occurred in
abundance ; but I wanted more time and facility for looking into them.
The conditions of the public circle irHtated me, and I determined to try
for spine private fancies with Hetfie. and Williams, myself and one
friend being the only observers. The first of these, held May 29; 1872,
was a total failure, and we adjourned to June 5, when Herne did not
enter an appearance. A third appointment, for the 8th, was ffiadp as a
last resort, for my mind was being gradually prejudiced by this shilly¬
shallying, and I was getting disgusted. We sat for more than half ah
hour with no result, and I proposed to withdraw. I had redd (for dliring
the interval I had read every book on Spiritualism on which I could lay
my hands) that some persons stopped manifestations, and I believed it
possible that I might be such an offender. I retired, and phenomena
occurred at once. I returned, and they ceased. This occurred thrice;
and communications were at length obtained through the alphabet.
They soon ceased, however, and Herne and Williams commenced
to jerk, and quiver, and twitch, and wriggle about, ih the true
mediumistic fashion. To my great horror, I found these jerks
communicated to myself. My right arm was seized about the middle Of
the fore arm, and dashed violently up and down with a noise resembling
that of a number of paviours at work. It was the most tremendous
exhibition of “unconscious muscular action” I ever saw. In vain I
tried to stop it. I distinctly felt the grasp of the hand, soft and firm,
round my arm, and though perfectly possessed of my senses and volition,
I was powerless to interfere, although my hand was disabled for some
days by the bruising it then got. The object we soon found was to get
up the force, for Herne was levitated on to the table, afid his chair was
placed so as to rest on the table from the mantelshelf near which he had
been sitting. Other phenomena took place, and especially striking was
one that occurred just as were going away. Williams preceded me
downstairs, then came my friend Dr. Speer, and Herne was last. I
turned on the stairs to say something to him, and saw in clear light a
chair sailing along nearly three feet from the floor, and coming towards
us. It fell oh the landing close to our feet. It is needless to say that
this movement in mid-air of a weighty article—it Was a very substantial
chair—caused us to examine it carefully, and to return to the empty
room which we had just left, No suspicious wire or mechanism was
there, nor could any device that I can imagine have produced what I
saw without instant detection. No more complete proof of the existence
of an independent force can be conceived.
CONFIRMATORY EVIDENCE.
I had thus obtained strong evidence of the existence of the force, of
its being governed by intelligence, and of the fact that that intelligence
was, in one case, that of a departed friend.
I pass over a great amount of other confirmatory evidence, and
hasten to tell in a few words another occurrence that greatly deepened
the impression already made on my mind. My friends were going to
the seaside for a summer holiday, and I was to join them after a short
interval. Meantime, I went to visit an old friend whose health was
failing, and who had written to beg me to go and see him
at once, as he felt his time was growing short. I hurried
to comply, but arrived only to be told that he had passed
away a short time previously, regretting that I had not come in
time to see him. I remained in the house, and when in due time I went
into the room where the body of my friend lay, the spirit-form stepped
forward to greet me as he would have done in life, with a smile and
outstretched hand. I saw him with clairvoyant sense as really as my
natural eye discerned the objects that surrounded me; and that, not
once only, but on repeated occasions.
This, I need not say, deepened my faith, and strengthened its founda¬
tions. Many a stone has since been laid on that foundation, and the
superstructure has reached a goodly height, but it is none too high or
heavy for that on which it rests.
PRIVATE EXPERIMENTS.
I pass on to notice very briefly that I rejoined my friend, and our
experiments were resumed in the family circle. One by one all the
most usual phenomena were produced, and many a new marvel was
added. Though I have had extraordinary opportunities of witnessing
the phenomena of Spiritualism during the past six years, I have seen
nothing equal to the variety of the manifestations, and to the spon¬
taneity with which they were produced.. They occurred at all times,
and in all sorts of places, in the house and out of it, with no formal
seance; at meals, in church, in empty rooms, here, there, and every¬
where, until we none of us could, as sane and capable observers, enter-
Mat 3, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
209
tain any dbtiBt of the independent nature of the Intelligence, any more
than, as ourselves truthful and earnest inquirers into the source of the
Intelligence, we saw any cause to doubt its unequivocal affirmation,
solemnly and repeatedly made, that it proceeded from spirits pure and
good, some of whom, at any rate, were departed friends of our own, and
all of-whom had once been denizens of this earth.
VARIOUS INQUIRERS AND THEIR DIFFICULTIES.
Such is my own record ; and in dwelling upon it I feel that I have
taken some liberty with my subject, for it is not a record of difficulties.
But though I have no troubles of my own to narrate, I have a large
acquaintance on paper with the troubles of other people. The past five
years have been filled with a correspondence large enough to tax the
energy of one man without any other occupation; and this has related
mainly to the doubts and difficulties, theories and opinions, and especially
to the multifarious desideranda of inquirers.
PSEUDO-SCIENTIFIC.
1. One class of correspondents, whom I may call the scientific or
pseudo-scientific, take much trouble to explain to me, some with great
courtesy, others with great pity, some with patience, and a few with
asperity, that I am a fool—they don’t say so, but they mean it none the
less—for believing in or troubling myself about these matters. Mediums
they regard as vulgar rogues, doubtless on the ex uno disce omnes prin¬
ciple ; investigators as shallow fools, presumably because they do not
employ the scientific method made notorious in a recent celebrated
instance. I get the full benefit of discourses on the laws of nature (all
of which are apparently well known to my correspondents): on snap¬
ping tendons, cracking toe-joints, expectant attention, unconscious Car-
penterianisms, et hoc genus omne.
This is, perhaps, the weariest and dreariest reading of all; but it
serves to show that the dominant ideas fostered by this “ science,
falsely so called,” are one great hindrance to the fair and free investiga¬
tion of Spiritualism.
THEORISTS.
2. A second class are those who have an idea, a plan, a theory—the
Trochus of whom the War Office, and many other departments, could
tell a tale. I do not mean those who have mastered facts, and who earn
the thanks of all by devoting themselves to the task of suggesting
explanations of them. These merit the enduring gratitude of all lovers
of truth. I refer to those who regard fact as a subsidiary matter
altogether, and whose eyes are filled with the fair proportions of their
own idea. Suggest to them that they are not quite acquainted with
facts which do not, indeed, accord with their theory, and they wave
them aside with much dignified complacence, explaining that if their
ideas are properly estimated they must be found to be true, and so that,
since Nature works according to law, the facts will, in the end, be found
to fit into their place. One correspondent expounds to me this delightful
piece of argument in connection with his idea that simultaneous hallu¬
cination accounts for all.
These correspondents lead me to believe that another cause why
success does not attend the investigations of some persons, is because
their minds are hopelessly darkened to the exclusion of all |light by the
blind of a false theory.
THE IGNORANT.
3. A third class is the purely ignorant. These usually profess them¬
selves to be so; they will even parade what is already sufficiently
obvious, as though it were, like the beggar’s rags and professional
shiver, an excuse for appealing to the public pity. Starting from this
platform, these persons will propound the most astonishing queries as
to things heavenly and spiritual. They will ask questions which (I
presume) an archangel would be unable to answer, simply because that
exalted being would find in the questioner no antecedent knowledge
which would make a reply intelligible. They will ask about God and
creation, and the nature of the occupations of eternity, demanding with
much naivete a biography of all the heavenly host, and a topographical
plan of the spheres. They will propound simple questions about pre¬
destination, and the nature of evil, and the incarnation, and other
theological problems, which they seem to suppose become all as clear
as mud to the spirit that has been, if only for a few poor years, eman¬
cipated from the physical body.
These impress me with a belief that another cause of failure in some
inquirers is, that they have not prepared themselves by gathering ante¬
cedent knowledge and clearing away old fallacies, to receive new truth.
The ground has not been ploughed up, harrowed, and cleansed of weeds,
so that new seed may have a chance to grow.
THE CAPTIOUS CRITICS.
4. Closely allied in ignorance are those whom I may call the
captious; those who “ want to know ” why such and such conditions
are necessary; why such and such things can’t be done in such and
such a way; why phenomena can’t be got at the Royal Institution;
why there should be any such thing as a medium or a circle; why not
abolish them, and let every man be his own medium: in short, why
everything is as it is, and why everything isn’t as it isn’t. These
persons, one would declare, know how everything ought to be, and could
amend God’s universe to an improved pattern, and run it on entirely
new principles. They may be recommended to begin their improve¬
ments by making a clean sweep of Professor Tyndall’s “conditions”
in his laboratory at the Royal Institution ; and when they have
abolished the developing room of the photographer we will begin to talk
with them.
These lead to the belief that there are some, I fear I ought to say
many persons, who carry in their own minds a captious spirit—intolerant,
arrogant, and dogmatic—which is a sure barrier'to the reception of
truth* They have not merely not swept and garnished the chamber,
but they have barricaded all points of access with chevaux de frise of
foolish objections, and strewed the floor with torpedoes into the bargain.
i (j It was Mr. Spurgeon who, in describing a captious questioner,
| 11 declared Of hiiii that if the constellation Orion were pointed out to his
i I view', he would immediately suggest that the shape of it was poor, and
i | that the stars might be rearranged on a new principle,
i | Such captious critics are not all outside of Spiritualism.
! J THE SPIRITUALISTS.
| ( 5. Lastly, there is the large body of Spiritualists, whose questions
| ( are extremely suggestive.
| Some—most of them are engaged in a search after their departed
( friends. If any one wants to know how deeply the affections enter
( into the motives which interest men in this subject, he need only talk to
/ any one who has had opportunities like my own of seeing the minds of
i those who are interesting themselves in Spiritualism. Many who
( have neglected the subject before find it attractive when there is
) hope of reunion with one who has been reft from them. Many who
( have had desultory interest in it on scientific principles or out of mere
j curiosity, find a deeper and keener inducement when death has in-
) vaded their homes. And many, I fear, finding that all is not so plain as
( they had hoped ; that there are laws beyond the grave, even as here ;
| and that these preclude or delay the coveted intercourse—many go
back and impatiently say that Spiritualism is a mockery, an affair of
( sub-human spirits, a dealing with devils.
| This is, after all, but a refined form of selfishness, and suggests to
i us another antecedent difficulty in the inquirer’s way, viz., that a too
( eager desire for one thing, and a too positive state of the mind, are well-
> nigh sure to produce failure. The mind must be at peace, in harmo¬
nious balance, and not biassed or excited. The best attitude is one
( of simple receptivity ; an attitude, let me say, quite compatible with
1 the keenest scrutiny, and the most accurate observation,
r Again, the letters of enthusiastic Spiritualists betray a singular
( inability to understand the laws of evidence. There are many grounds
| on which conviction comes to the mind, especially in the matter of
| intercourse with those who have been dearly loved, and who are lost
( to us. It may be that to one has been vouchsafed the proof he craves
] for through some message, some private test, some little clue that
f speaks at once to his heart. But, in recording this occurrence, fre-
( quently almost too sacred for publicity, he forgets that others have not
( the same means of judging that he has, and to them his language of
( enthusiasm and exaggerated joy seem only as the over-wrought utter-
j ances of a crazy brain.
| Or, again, one seance out of many is recorded, perhaps anonymously.
( No fair evidence is given; no test recorded. These, it may be, have been
j applied before, and conviction has been established, and tests are no
) longer useful. Yes; but the narrator forgets, in his enthusiasm, that
( his letter is isolated, its statements loose, its phenomena astounding.
> And so the neophite reads, wonders, and is repelled. “ These men,”
r he says, “ do not know what the laws of evidence and the rules of logic
i ( mean.”
11 It would be better, I earnestly believe, that no accounts should be
|) presented to the public except such as will stand the test of cross-
; ( examination. Many, very many, would so be excluded ; but the world
|) would be the better for it, and fewer stumbling-blocks would be laid
! ( in the inquirer’s way. I know that there are many facts for which
I ( chapter and verse cannot be given—many occurrences round which
i | clings the odour of affection, that cannot be exposed to the rude blasts
j ( of criticism. I know it well; and I would say, “ Keep such for
! | private satisfaction, and for future use. The time will come when
I ) such records will find their place, and when the feelings of the living
] ( will no longer need to be spared ; and, if not, the test, hallowed by
! I sacred memories, will lose none of its value if you keep it Consecrated
! ) to the purpose for which it was originally given.”
! ( I shall probably command the assent of all reasonable persons
j | when I say that to the uninstructed mind—to the mind that is not
I / familiar with the phenomena of Spiritualism—many of the records
I ( must read strangely lax, both in method of observation and in
I | language. We, who write too frequently, sometimes forget that some
j ) who read have no antecedent knowledge, and that what to us is
[ ( familiar is very strange to them. We should consciously remember
j | that no man ought to be asked to assent to such facts and truths as we
| ) propound for public acceptance—facts new and strange, and not only
j (| that, but transcending, and, in some cases, reversing previous ex-
151 perience—save on the most exact and complete evidence. It is an
I) I insult to intelligence to expect belief on any other basis ; and the con-
I ( verts, let me say, that could be so obtained are not of the highest order
j I of mind.
j j And while I am on this topic, I must ask your permission to say
(j one word more. It is not only inexpedient and wrong to publish
) i inaccurate and loose records, but it is not always wise to print—still
( less to recount with all the emphasis of enthusiasm—even exact records
I of very extraordinary phenomena, unless they can be attested by such
) a weight of testimony as to make it impossible for a fair mind to
( reject the record. I believe that it is not wise to force too strong
) j meat on those who are not prepared to digest it. Let me not be mis-
) | taken. I mean exactly what I say. I do not think it wise to tax the
(j belief of those who are not familiar with the subject. It is all so
)! strange, so subversive of previous experience, that I counsel discretion.
) I The ancients were wise when they maintained the esoteric circle as
j | well as the exoteric.
) I It is within my knowledge that much harm has been done on many
r I occasions by injudiciously forcing on unprepared minds what seem
j i to them monstrous narrations of unexplained and inexplicable
)} occurrences. The digestion turns, and the bewildered hearer says,
h “I could have stood a little of that, but this is a little too much.”
S! Depend upon it, there is philosophy in that remark. The growth
(| must be gradual, and should be made so. Forcing is bad in all ways,
vi The fruit looks well, but it has no flavour. The plant is luxuriant,
210
THE SPtElTtJALIST*
May 3, 1878.
DIAGRAMMATIC RECORDS OF VARIATIONS IN THE WEIGHT OF A MEDIUM DURING MANIFESTATIONS.
2-33
230
2 20
Z:7?
2)2
141
MR. C, E. WILLIAMS AND A MATERIALISED SPIRIT.
Supplement to I (flhe Spiritualist,” ($ap Srd, J$7$.
•ffgC ' \-;:'!':'r::Vrr;ri 11!$ hi
May 3, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
211
but it will not stand the cold wind. The inquirer so treated is very j i
apt to turn sick.
I have already trespassed beyond my limits, and have not said half J
that occurs to me. It is no part of my business now to point out how j
the inquirer may avoid the pitfalls that lie in his way, nor to say how
the enforced methods of investigation of which he is the helpless i
victim aggravate his difficulties. It is more to the point now that I j
draw your attention to the fact that many of the inquirer’s difficulties |
are of his own making. They spring, as I have tried to show, from j
ignorance, from arrogance, from a biassed mind, from wilful or uncon¬
scious one-sidedness of view, from a fixed determination to seek for one j
(perhaps unattainable) end, from excitement and enthusiasm, and from !
a lack of calm, and dispassionate, and patient painstaking investigation.
WEIGHING A MEDIUM DURING THE PRODUCTION OF
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
The British National Association of Spiritualists some
time since appointed a committee to prosecute original
research in relation to spiritual phenomena, and allotted it a
room on its premises at 38, Great Russell-street, London,
in which to conduct its operations. The Association at the
same time gave the committee the use of all appliances it
possessed upon the establishment, and a few months ago
the committee began its work in connection with research,
by attempting to ascertain continuously the variations, it
any, in the weight of a medium during the occurrence of
powerful physical manifestations. The Research Committee
consists of Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Member of the
Society of Telegraph Engineers, Chairman; Mr. C. F.
Varley, F.R.S., C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.
(Cantab.) ; Mr. W. H. Coffin; Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister- j
at-Law; the Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A. (Oxon.); the
Rev. W. W. Newbould, M.A. (Cantab.); Mr. Charles Black¬
burn, of Didsbury; Mr. George C. Joad; Captain John
James; Mr. F. W. Percival, M.A. (Oxon.); Mr. Dawson
Rogers; Mr. J. W. Gray, C.E.; Mr. E. T. Bennett; Mr. F.
Barrett; Mr. T. H. Edmands; Mr. H. Withall; Mr. George j
King; Mr. G. F. Green; Dr. Carter Blake, Lecturer on
Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; and myself.
The medium through whom the valuable results hereinafter |
recorded have been obtained is Mr. C. E. Williams.
The Research Committee has favoured me by passing a j
resolution authorising me to publish the results on my own
responsibility; that is to say, the committee is not answer-
able for anything in this article, but will hereafter give in
its own official report, in which it will probably deal only
with absolute test phenomena, and not as I shall do, theorise.
Fio. 1. Fig. 2.
DESCRIPTION OF THE APPARATUS USED.
As it was not certain, when plunging into this part of the
domain of the unknown, whether any results could be ob-
j tained, the apparatus used in the following experiments has
j not been of the most perfect kind, but it is now in course of
] replacement by other weighing appliances, more perfect both
I in theory and in operation. Still, the broad results already
| obtained are sufficiently trustworthy and detailed to be ex¬
ceedingly interesting.
The foregoing cuts, Figs. 1 and 2, explain the nature of the
I apparatus used to register the weight of the medium during
| every instant of each stance. Fig. 2 represents a small
| cabinet, mounted upon a platform weighing machine such
| as is used at railway stations. To the end K of the lever
! arm of the weighing machine a wire is attached connecting
i the arm with the self-registering apparatus at W. Thus,
as the arm rises and falls in proportion to any variation in
the weight of the medium in the cabinet, the wire cor-
I i respondingly governs the motions of the indicating portion
j of the arrangement. The self-registering apparatus is
j represented on a large scale in Fig. 1, where the wire from
the lever arm of the weighing machine is shown, attached
at its lower end to a spring balance, of which the indicator,
! I which rises or falls with all variations in weight, is shown
at N. This indicator consists of a hollow metal case with a
II spring inside, which spring presses the point of a pencil
[ | against the vertical drum A B, consequently, as the pencil
11 rises and falls it draws a line up and down the drum. If
i j the drum were motionless, it thus would leave nothing
!! but one vertical line upon it, but as it revolves by clock-
I work upon its axis once in an hour, in the direction A B,
! the pencil in rising and falling draws a zigzag line upon the
i paper round the drum. The height of this line at any par-
| ticular moment is thus a record of the weight upon the
machine at that moment. The clockwork is not represented
| in the cut; it is in the octagonal case depicted beneath the
| base of the drum.
PLAN OF THE ROOM IN WHICH THE SEANCES ARE HELD.
Fig. 3 is a ground plan of the room on the second floor of the
premises of the British National Association of Spiritualists,
in which room the experiments are conducted. The position
| of the little cabinet and its weighing machine is shown at A,
! and W is the self-registering apparatus attached thereto.
N is a large cabinet, much used at the semi-public seances
of the Association; E is a large, heavy, rectangularei board-
| room” kind of table; T, the door of the room ; and K, the
i fireplace and fender. V and F are light cane-bottomed
| chairs, of which six or seven others are usually in the room,
i The reason of the particular positions of the table and chairs
! in this cut will be explained farther on.
THE RECORDING OF THE PHENOMENA OBSERVED.
At every seance, one of the members of the Research
I Committee writes down what manifestations occur at any
| particular time, in order that the weight marked at any
! moment on the drum may afterwards be compared with the
phenomena then observed. Mr. Williams obtains only dark-
j circle manifestations, consequently, the recorder is shut up in
! the cabinet N, with a light and a watch; he can hear perfectly
i through the curtains of the cabinet what is going on outside;
212
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 3, 1878.
he writes down and times what the observers say they wit¬
ness, as well as what he hears himself. Thus, while the
human recorder has a light, the spirits can go on with the
ordinary manifestations of a dark stance.
THE NATURE OP THE MANIFESTATIONS EXAMINED. )
The manifestations dealt with in the experiments about
to be described consist of those produced in the presence of
Mr. C. E. Williams. At his ordinary seances, given almost j
every night for years past, while his hands are held by trust¬
worthy persons on both sides of him, musical instruments
fly about like bats in a perfectly dark room, sometimes
touching the faces of the sitters gently in their flight; at the
same time the instruments are played upon by temporarily
ipaterialised spirit hands. Also, on rarer occasions, when
Mr. Williams is similarly held, the spirit, John King, or
another, sometimes materialises at half or full length, and
shows his living features by means of a phosphorescent-
looking but odourless light held in his hands. He often j
floats steadily up to the ceiling of an ordinary room before
several spectators, and can be seen pressing his head against it
while he talks. The object of the experiments of the Research |
Committee was to ascertain the medium’s weight while !
manifestations like these were going on. In all the material- I
isation manifestations I have seen, whenever the spirits have J
shown their faces in a sufficiently good light to make it j
evident that the heads were alive and had flexible features, j
the features have always strongly resembled those of the j
medium, especially in the lines of the eyes and nose, though |
on rare occasions the heads have been perhaps one-fourth j
larger than the heads of the mediums, as in some of the I
photographs of them taken by Mr. William Crookes. Com- !
monly enough the dresses also of the mediums are duplicated j
or triplicated, but mostly covered with white drapery, which j |
is not about the mediums when they are searched before the I j
seances begin and after they end, but is usually substantial
and common enough in the middle of the sitting. I do not |
know where it comes from or where it goes to. Probably it j
is often carried in and materialised and dematerialisea at | I
will during the stance. Once I was asked by the spirits j 1
to feel it, when they said it was in a semi-spiritualised I
state; it was like a fine fabric of spider’s web clinging
about my fingers; about twenty seconds later it felt like
calico. Once I saw the living bust of a spirit moving,
illuminated by a phosphorescent light in its hands ; the
features and clothes were like those of the medium, but
covered with gossamer white drapery, like thin translucent
egg-shell. Of course, these facts give rise to the question
whether, as Dr. Wyld argues, the spirit of the medium
produces most of this particular class of manifestations. This
is not the occasion to argue the point. The question has
been in my mind for years in relation to this limited class
of manifestations, and I think that independent spirits
having no “ machine,” that is to say, u body ” of their own,
by which they can manifest on the plane of matter, are
obliged to assume some of the material conditions they find
in the medium and his-surroundings. The medium is some¬
times not entranced, and carries on an argument with one
or two of these spirits at once, while they are producing
physical effects. It is difficult, in such case, to conceive that
his own spirit does it all. I have always seized every oppor¬
tunity offered me to go to see alleged recognisable u dead ”
persons materialising themselves, but have never seen any
with living flexible features in a light good enough to be
distinctly observed by all the members of the circle, and off
the premises of the medium ; that is to say, I have not a
single case in my personal experience which I can put in as
good evidence. But the evidence is very strong that now
and then such recognisable living faces have been seen in
America.
EXPERIMENTAL SEANCE—NUMBER ONE.
At a seance, held on the night of March 15th, 1878, the
members of the Research Committee present were Mr.
Desmond Fitz-Gerald (Chairman), Mr. H. Withall, Dr.
Carter Blake, the Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, the Rev. W. W.
Newbould, Mr. Gr. F. Green, Mr. F. Barrett, and Miss
Kislingbury (Secretary).
The spirits at work during the following seances gave the
names of John King and his assistantPeter,”
Mr. Stainton-Moses, seated with a light in the cabinet N,
Fig. 3, recorded and timed the phenomena witnessed. Mr.
Williams took his seat at 8 p.m. in the cabinet on the plat¬
form weighing machine A, Fig. 3. The self-recording
apparatus gave during the stance the diagram represented
by Fig. 4. The following are from the notes made by Mr.
Stainton-Moses during the seance:—
8.0—Medium entered the cabinet.
8.2—Light extinguished. Musical box started.
8.41— Voice of Peter first heard.
8.5f—Conversation ceased. Box re-started.
8.8—Noise in cabinet. Peter said, in answer to a question, that
it was occasioned by the breaking of the thread which secured the
doors.*
8.9J—Peter says thread not broken, but undone.
8.11—Curtain [of small cabinet] drawn back.
8.11 J—Peter speaks.
8.13—Spirit-lights.
8.19— Peter says he is out of the cabinet. Sound of his voice appears
to bfe distant from cabinet.
8.20— Peter speaks.
8.26—Peter says he dropped the tube outside the cabinet a moment
ago- ..
8.28—Two lights observed outside the cabinet.
8.31—“I am right outside the cabinet.”
8.31 J—Peter slams the door of the cabinet, and beats time to the
music.
8.33—Peter says he is trying to make medium heavier.
8.34|—Light passed between Mr. Fitz-Gerald and the edge of the
mantelpiece.
8.37—Peter right outside. Sounded as if he were between Mr. F.
Barrett and the cabinet.
8.37£—Bell rung and metal tube taken.
8.38f—Rapping on and inside cabinet.
8.39£—Peter says he is going to touch Miss Kislingbury.
8.40—Miss Kislingbury stands up, touching her chair. Peter out
of cabinet; he touched Dr. Carter Blake, Miss Kislingbury, and Mr.
Barrett (8.41).
8.42— Peter says he is trying to make the medium heavier.
8.45— Peter materialised, and standing outside cabinet. Seen fairly
twice. “ I assure you I am outside.”
8.46— Materialisation again.
8.47— Continuation. Four appearances. Last time Peter’s face
quite visible to Mr. F. Barrett.
8.48^—Peter said, “ My medium is getting lighter.” '
8.50^—Peter striking chair with tube, and addressing Dr. Carter
Blake.
8.52—Peter says, a Medium is now of his ordinary weight, and
Peter nearly exhausted! ”
8.53£—Peter knocking ground with the tube at the side of the
cabinet.
8.54— Medium convulsed. “Peter gradually subsiding.”
8.55— Medium awake. Peter says “ Good night.”
8.56— Curtain of cabinet drawn.
8.662—Medium left cabinet.
From the above it will be seen that little but talk
took place from 8.0 till 8.19, when Peter said he was out of
the cabinet, about which time the medium showed a diminu-
I tion of weight varying from 10 to 20 lbs. At 8.26 and 8.31
he made remarks about his being outside the cabinet, and
the medium showed an occasional diminution in weight of
about 40 lbs. From 8.37 to 8.41 Peter was sometimes well
outside, and at other times inside the cabinet; in the former
case there was but about 25 lbs. weight inside the cabinet.
From 8.42 to 8.48 he was more or less well outside the cabinet,
and the medium for most of those six minutes was but half
his proper weight. The sitters record that Peter was out¬
side the cabinet, yet all the time there was a weight of 70 or
80 lbs. inside. On this occasion no measurements were
made of the distances he came from the cabinet, as the
members of the committee were trying the working of the
new system and apparatus, and the stance was rather a weak
one. The stance served the purpose of letting the observers
know what results to expect and prepare for in the future.
The diagram shows that the variations in weight agree with
what Peter said he was doing, whenever his remarks bore
reference to weight.
EXPERIMENTAL SEANCE NUMBER TWO.
At a stance held on the night of April 5th, 1878, Mr. O.
E. Williams was again the medium, and I was seated in the
cabinet N, Fig* 3, making the record. The other members
of the committee present were—Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald
(Chairman), Captain John James, Dr. Carter Blake, Mr.
* The two little doors were sometimes tied together with a thread by the committee, on
the assumption that the moment a materialised form first came out, the fact would
I be denoted by the noise made by the snapping thread, and could therefore be timed,—
I W. H. H.
May 3, 1878.
THE SElRlTirALIST.
213
G. F. Green, Mr. F. Barrett, the Bev. W. W. Newbould,
and myself.
Mr. Williams took his seat on the weighing machine at
8.7^ p.m., the self-registering apparatus gave the diagram
shown in Fig. 5, and the following is from my record:—
8.7£—Medium entered cabinet.
8.9J—Strong shudderings of medium.
8.10—Light put out.
8.16— Peter’s voice heard.
8.17— Medium sighing and moaning.
8.17|—Peter entered into conversation.
8.18$—Thread holding cabinet doors broken.
8.19—Peter said he didn’t do it.
8.19J—Peter talked till 8.22J.
8.23— Medium made shivering noise.
8.24— Peter asked for remnants of fire in the grate to be raked out.
Done by Dr. Carter Blake.
8.24$—Peter talking till 8.26.
8.28—Medium shuddered. Peter talked.
8.29£—Medium shuddered.
8.30£—Peter drew open curtains of his cabinet.
8.32— Peter said he was outside.
8.33— Medium shuddered.
8.88£—Peter: “ Can you see me ?” Answer: “ No.”
8.34— Peter talking.
8.35J—Musical box set going by Peter’s order.
8.37— Mr. Barrett: “ Peter says he is outside the cabinet.”
8.37£—Peter : “ Does any one intimate Pin not outside ? ” Mr.
Harrison: “No. Only known facts are stated.” PeterThat’s right.
Be scientific.”
8.38— Light seen, and a head eighteen inches from cabinet.
8.39— Peter outside cabinet, touching Mr. Barrett.
8.40— Peter said he was still outside.
8.41— Peter talking. Light seen.
8.42— Illuminated head three feet from cabinet.
8.44—Peter talking, and gave a bell to Mr. Newbould near the other
cabinet Gave it into his hand in the dark.
8.45^—Light one foot from cabinet.
8.46—Illuminated face seen one foot from cabinet. Peter talked till
8.49— Peter said that he was out of the cabinet, aud that he had put
the musical box on the floor of the cabinet. [Immediately before this he
had seized the musical box with both hands and had carried it away.
The box had previously rested on Mr. Barrett’s knees.]
8.61—Peter said that the box was outside the cabinet.
8.52—Musical box floating outside cabinet, as usual in a dark seance.
8.52|—The sitters said that Peter was “ right outside.” He gave the
musical box to Miss Kislingbury.
8.54—A light seen one foot from cabinet. A face seen twice by Dr.
Carter Blake and others.
8.50— Peter talking.
9.0—Peter said he was outside cabinet.
9.3— Peter said he was gradually subsiding. Medium shuddered.
9.4— Peter said “ Good night ” to everybody in turn.
9.4J—Threw out paper tube.
9.6— Medium coughed.
9.6$—Medium spoke.
9.7— Medium left the cabinet.
REMARKABLE RESULTS OF THIS SEANCE.
The highly interesting diagram (Fig. 5) connected with |
the above record, shows that during the ordinary strong dark
circle manifestations from 8.39 to 8.56 the weight of the I
medium was constantly altering; sometimes he weighed 1
about 30 lbs., at other times about 60 lbs., but his weight was
constantly changing as if some vibrating force were acting j
upon him all the time. Although Peter’s face was
momentarily seen several times at this sS'ance, there was no
strong materialisation of forms ; it was an ordinary dark
stance, without much in the way of materialisation.
The long thin lines in the diagram merely represent oscilla¬
tions of the apparatus, not dead weight, and a little should
be taken off the shorter lines on account of the same
swinging.
There were two remarkable tests at this stance. At 8.44,
while there was a weight of 32 lbs. on the machine, Peter
gave a small bell into the hand of the Rev. W. W. New¬
bould, in pitch darkness, without feeling about for his hand;
Mr. Newbould’s chair was 31 ft. 8 in. from the door of the
cabinet. As Peter gave the bell there was a momentary “ pull ”
at the medium, shewn by the diagram to be instantaneous;
it seems to have been but a swing of the weighing machine,
which however brought the line momentarily to zero, the
dead weight on the machine appearing to be 32 lbs. But a
better test still occurred at 8.52£, when, while there was a
weight of 60 lbs. on the machine, Peter gave the heavy
musical box to Miss Kislingbury, who was seated 12 ft. 3 in.
from the door of the medium’s cabinet. The measurements
of this kind are, in all cases, taken from the centre of the
front door of the cabinet, to a spot midway between the two
front legs of the chair of the sitter mentioned. The
measurements in the two cases just given were made in
the presence of the committee by Dr. Carter Blake, and the
following is his memorandum of the results :—
April 5th, 1878.—Mr. Newbould’s chair is 11 ft. 8 in. from the door
of the cabinet. Miss Kislingbury’s spot, to which the musical box was
carried, is 12 ft. 3 in. from the door of the cabinet.
C. Carter Blake.
At the particular moment the box was given, there seems
as before to have been a pull at the medium, which by a
swing of the recording pencil drew a straight line, but in¬
dicates really little or no change of weight. Even this line
does not come down to zero by 28 or 30 lbs., so the test of
the genuineness of the manifestation is a very good one.
I have before stated that the temporary apparatus in use
is home-made. From the occasional looseness of the pencil
in the holder, it has now and then made records about 5 lbs.
out, and such defects I think to be more prevalent in this
diagram than the other two, causing rather more than the
normal weight of the medium to be sometimes registered.
With the apparatus in course of construction these defects
will be eliminated. Scale beam apparatus, also, will be
substituted for the present platform machine.
Another curious revelation is made by this diagram. At
8.37 Peter said, “ Now, I’m inside,” and the fall in weight
amounting in an instant to 70 lbs., which decrease was
maintained for nearly a minute, shows that he spoke the
truth. Mr. Barrett said to the recorder, 11 Peter says he is
, outside the cabinet,” upon which that loquacious spirit
I! asked, “ Does anyone intimate I’m not outside ? ” Spirit¬
ualists and disbelievers often remark that the spirits have a
great dislike to be' doubted, nor is it perhaps unreasonable
to be irritated if, after a spirit has by much hard work and
trouble succeeded in producing objective results on the plane
of matter, his veracity is called in question. This doubt
caused Peter to retire either into his medium or on to the
weighing machine, and at 8.38 and 8.39 there was an
increased weight of 90 lbs., or about 10 lbs. more than any
maximum weight which had been there during the preceding
I 8 minutes. There had been previous rises of much the
same kind as this, but nearer 50 than 80 or 90 pounds, at a
jump; besides, his triumphant remark,t( Now, I’m outside,”
apparently intimated that at last he was ready to go to work
in the room. Hence it is probable that in the rise in weight
at 8.37 j we have the first diagrammatical representation of
the dislike of spirits to their integrity being called in
question. Still, there are some spirits who tell anything
but the truth.
From 8.56 to 9.1, towards the close of this seance, the
medium recovered his normal weight, broadly speaking, in
three instalments, at each of which 30 lbs. or 35 lbs. were
suddenly and permanently put into him at intervals of two
minutes. At the close of the stance represented in diagram
6, something of the same kind of action is observable. At
2.30 Peter said, “ Now I’m going back to my medium,” and
! on the machine there was a clearly marked sudden increase
in weight of 35 lbs.; Peter was then talkative for two
| minutes, and about the time his voice ceased, when the last
I remnants of the materiality of the spirit had gone, there was
a further increase of 5 lbs. in the weight of the medium.
These facts, although they are too few to generalise upon
with absolute safety, seem to intimate that when a spirit
takes from 35 lbs. to 40 lbs. of matter from a medium, it can
exercise the strong physical power usually manifested at
dark stances, including the lifting of chairs, and the carrying
of a musical box. The diagrams also indicate that the
medium can live with only 30 lbs. or 40 lbs. of matter in his
body j indeed now and then between 8.40 and 8.41, diagram
5, his body weighed but 20 lbs.
From 8.56 to 9.1, Fig. 5, we see, broadly speaking, three
increments of weight of about 40 lbs. each, put one after
the other into the body of the medium, which itself only
weighed about 40 lbs. at the beginning of the process.
Three spirits have for a long time past claimed to produce
the manifestations at Mr. Williams’ stances—John King,
Peter, and another who professes to have been a boatswain in
life. Sometimes, when Mr. Williams has been held on one
side of a table, one of these spirits has been talking at the
‘ backs of the heads of the sitters at the opposite side, whilst
214
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 3, 1878.
another some distance to the rear of Mr. Williams has been |
talking to the medium. These things all point towards the j
separate individuality of the medium and the three spirits, |
and that all four of them can live and move in the dark, |
with only 40 lbs. weight of matter in their bodies. The |
individualities and apparently the memories of the spirits (as I
revealed long ago by Swedenborg) are much masked and jj
limited by the individuality of the medium; indeed, the | j
laws permitting communication seem to force them to take I j
on the external appearance of himself and his clothes to a ! i
large extent. If Dr. Wyld’s theory of the spirit of the u
medium doing it all will cover these facts, that spirit is able J
to manifest through three or four bodies at the same time, i
But then there is a certain amount of individuality which j
these forms never for one moment lose. Further, we have J
their personal testimony that they are separate identities J
manifesting by difficult processes.
Although from the diagrams the spirits seem commonly J
enough to retire to the upper or nether world with a plunge, 1
there is not much indication that they come in that way, i
although diagram 6 may possibly indicate that they take it ]
in turns to gain materiality.
Other interpretations of diagram 5 are possible. f| The !
Boatswain” never spoke or professed to manifest at any of |
the stances mentioned in this article, although this is small '
argument in favour of his absence, for he never speaks as !
much as the other two spirits. It may be that the powerful
spirit John King took eighty pounds of weight from the
medium, and put it back in two instalments. Still, the
former speculation is probably nearer the truth, because if
the third spirit could only begin to gain materiality when
the medium weighed but 40 lbs., either the medium or the
spirit would have to go without a fair share. The three '
sudden increments of weight given to Mr. Williams between
8.56 and 9.1, Fig. 5, are exceedingly suggestive of his well-
known three spirits yielding up to him in turn that
materiality which they had temporarily borrowed from him.
Yet Peter alone claimed to have been present at this stance,
and he may have been by himself, and returned to the
medium in three instalments. The beginning of the
diagram rather favours this view, for the sudden rise at
8.37£ of 80 lbs. appears, by what has already been stated, as
if made entirely by the return of Peter to the machine.
Whatever the true explanation may be of the allotment of
weight, of materiality at this particular stance, I think that
the general results show that the medium and the spirits
can do very well with 30 lbs. or 40 lbs. of matter each, but
can do better with more, if they can get it. Perhaps they
take fair shares according to the number manifesting.
From 8.30 to 8.39 (Fig. 5), there were great variations in
weight, of about 1|- min. duration each, perhaps caused by
one or two materialised spirits getting on and off the weigh¬
ing machine, before they came well out into the room to
begin the manifestations.
From 8.23 to 8.30, during which time Peter was merely
talkative, much the same kind of diagram was produced as
between 8.30 and 8.39, but smaller in variations of weight
and in increments of time. It may be that the same process
of materialising was going on, but that after 8.30^ Peter
began to draw upon the medium more vigorously. Or it
may be that at 8.30£ one spirit had taken his quantum of
matter, that the medium gave a great jerk when the in¬
fluence changed, thereby producing the straight line, and
then another spirit began to take its portion of matter.
When I am on the machine, it takes a violent jerk to pro¬
duce a long line like that at 8.31 artificially.
There is nothing in the record to show the cause of the
50 lbs. or 60 lbs. diminution in weight between 8.19| and
8.23, Fig. 5, or the wherefore of its temporary restoration.
Between 8.17 and 8.20, Fig. 4, there are traces of a similar
action, followed by the same temporary restoration. In this
latter case Peter at 8.19 volunteered the information that he
was out of the cabinet, perhaps taking his first survey of the
circle; he may afterwards have gone back again to complete
his preparations for the stance. In Fig. 6 there is a similar
reduction of weight, but the duration of the temporary re¬
storation is shorter than in the other two cases.
EXPERIMENTAL SEANCE NUMBER THREE.
I come now to diagram number 6. The others referred
I to ordinary dark seance manifestations, in which musical
I instruments moved about, and a feebly illuminated face was
seen now and then. It occurred to me that it would be
interesting to ascertain and to insert in this article the
j variations in weight during one of those materialisation'
stances in which John King appears well illuminated to
the waist, and sometimes floats about the room and up to
the ceiling. Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald kindly gave me
| permission to try this experiment for the Research Com-
! mittee, and Mr. Barrett had previously fixed up for me
the self-recording apparatus. The next thing was to make
! tolerably sure of the strong manifestations required. One
| element of success, therefore, was to get Mr. Williams (who
| kindly expressed his willingness to aid) to come in the
daytime, before he had had his powers exhausted by a pre-
! vious stance. Another condition was that he should be
I quite happy and contented with his sitters, so that he could
| pass calmly into the trance state, satisfied that they were not
j likely to play him any tricks. I knew he was satisfied with
| my good faith; then I turned over in my own mind who
I the other sitter should be, for many people who are genial, *
| and get good manifestations through mediums being happy
in their presence, have little critical or observing power, and
j would believe a pocket-handkerchief presented in a dim
j light at a seance to be their grandmother if the medium
j told them to do so. Accordingly, I invited Mr. G. O.
j Joad, of Oakfield, Wimbledon-park, one of the gentlemen
selected by the lawyers to give evidence in the Slade case.
While he gets good manifestations because he behaves in a
kindly way to mediums, and does not go about thirsting for
| their blood, he is a capital observer, able to see the value of
evidence in a moment, and to separate actual fact from
I assumption, and from the glamour of personal bias. I found
! on inquiry that Mr. Williams would like him at a stance.
| Sometimes mediums have unreasonable antipathies, and
| nothing weakens manifestations so much as the dislike of
! i a medium to one or more of the members of a circle. Thus,
[ the best was done to get good manifestations, and they were
\ j obtained.
II The stance was held on a bright, sunshiny spring morning,
Thursday, April 18th, 1878, at 1.30 p.m., in the stance-ioom.
i of the National Association of Spiritualists. We blocked
out the light as well as we could with the shutters provided
for the purpose, shut and locked the door of the room and
I of a closet opening into the room, and put rugs along the
j floor to shut out the light streaming in between the bottoms
S of the doors and the floor. Fig. 3 shows the arrangements
| inside the room at this particular stance. A is the weighing
| machine, with its cabinet; W the self-recording apparatus ;
j E a heavy, board-room kind of table, with two musical boxes
| on it at E, in charge of Mr. Joad; Y is Mr. Joad’s chair,
j 8 ft. from the cabinet A; F is my chair, 12 ft. from
I the cabinet A; H, an unusually heavy fender, with fire-irons
lying in it; the distance of the nearest part of the fender to
I the front of the cabinet A is 6 ft. 2 in. ; N is the large
I cabinet in which the recorder usually sits with a light; the
I distance of the front curtains of this cabinet from A is 14 ft.;
j T is the door of the room opening into the passage; R the
| door opening into the closet. Beyond the articles already
I mentioned, there were none in the room heavier than light,
j cane-bottomed chairs ; in fact, there were no other articles
I worth mentioning. I examined the whole room, and the
i insides of the cabinets, particularly, to make sure of this.
The sole object of this sitting was to ascertain the weight
I on the machine two or three times, when a strongly
j materialised spirit was visibly some yards away from it.
j Therefore I only wanted to note those few moments, and did
not care to be shut up in a cabinet with a light for that
purpose; I wished to be outside with Mr. Joad to see all
that went on. Besides, he wished to have another witness
with him. As the lights brought by the spirits have a
phosphorescent appearance, though without smoke or smell,
I asked Mr. Williams whether I might make a weak phos-
' | phorescent light in a bottle close by my watch, whenever I
I wanted to note the time. He replied that, so far as he was
I concerned, I might try any experiments I pleased, if the
j spirits made no objection. Afterwards, they consented.
Accordingly I made light enough close to my watch when
wanted, by then admitting air into a bottle whose sides wore
May 3, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
215
covered with phosphoric oil. My light was much like that j ,
of the spirits, except that as oxidisation went on, mine j
filled the room with a strong smell of phosphorus, but theirs
had no odour. The smell from my imitation light might j
be abolished by pneumatic arrangements were it worth the | j
trouble. j
Mr. Joad arranged and started the self-registering ap- j
paratus, and tried a few experiments to see that it was
working all right. Mr. Williams arrived five minutes before
the stance began; he had no companion or baggage. At 1.41
he stepped on and off the machine, thereby making the
sharp angular line at the beginning of diagram 6, then
stepped on again. The candle at that time illuminating our
otherwise darkened room was then blown out.
FURTHER REMARKABLE RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTS. /
Only one or two vital points of this stance were recorded.
The rest is given from memory. Fig. 6 shows that the
spirits at once began operations with much vigour, as com¬
pared with previous stances, and weight was taken from the
medium in three instalments, made during three nearly
equal increments of time, after which the weight of the
medium, which once fell to about 30 lbs., rose to 50 or
60 lbs. In spite of our previous precautions, a little diffused
daylight leaked into the room here and there, but the length
N, A, Z, X, Fig. 3, was in perfect darkness, except near the
ceiling, and to that length did the spirits almost entirely j
confine their manifestations. At 2.6 Peter was well out of I
the cabinet, and opposite the fire-place H; his light once I
flashed up while his back was to us; he had on trousers |
and frock coat; in short, so far as garments were j
concerned, he appeared to be Mr. Williams’s double, i
At 2.12 John King appeared strongly about a yard |
in front of the centre of the fire-place K ; that is to say, he j
was 8 ft. from the cabinet; there was then a tremulous j
weight of about 40 lbs. on the machine. At 2.17 Peter was j
out; he touched Mr. Joad, seated 8 ft. from the cabinet, and j
myself, seated 12 ft. from the cabinet; he moved about and 15
talked to us, then at 2.20 went inside the empty cabinet N, the j
front of which was 14 ft. from the other one. When inside j
he banged his hands against the sides of it, and against its
wire-work test partition. He said he was in the cabinet,
and there is no question that he was there. All this time
there was a weight of 35 lbs. on the machine, and occa¬
sionally there was a tremulousness of that weight, possibly
due to a request I made two or three times, that when Peter
was furthest from the weighing machine he would make his j
medium twitch. At 2.30 Peter said, “Now, I am going
back to my medium,” and there was a sudden and clear in¬
crease in the weight of the medium of 35 lbs., followed by j
an additional 10 lbs. a few minutes later. At 2.33 Mr. I
Williams left the machine. ' I
On taking a general view of this diagram, the curious fact j
is revealed that while the strong John King materialisation j
was going on, an almost motionless weight of 35 lbs. lay in j
the cabinet. This weight was subject to small twitches occa- |
sionally. The sudden elevations here and there probably j
represent the moments when the spirits returned to their j |
medium to gain power, as usual in this kind of stances; I
from 50 lbs. to 70 lbs. was then added to the previous weight j j
on the machine. Each time they left the inert mass on j j
the machine, its weight or materiality was reduced 4 lbs. or I !
6 lbs. lower than during the previous manifestation. j j |
This returning to an almost lifeless, motionless body to j j
gain power is strange. They went to it to take on mortal j |
and earthly conditions, thus apparently being able to j j
manifest to us only by a process of temporary personal | j
degradation. • ■ | j
THE TESTIMONY OF MR. G. O. JOAD, j i
All the preceding parts of this article were sent to Mr. I j
Joad for his confirmation of the details of the last stance, j j
and with the request that he would insert his own account | |j
of it, which is here appended :— j (j
I have read the preceding account by Mr. Harrison of Seance No. 3, i (!
and fully confirm his report of it. j j j
The light was by no means perfectly excluded, except on the side of i j j
the room X Z. Peter spoke almost immediately after Mr. Williams j | i
had gone into the cabinet; there was then a pause. Peter next asked |} i
me to hang something over the door leading into the small room, as U
there was too much light. I fastened up the table-cloth without lighting ‘11
the candle. After an interval of about ten minutes, Peter asked if we
saw him; there was a flutter of something white at the corner of the
cabinet, of no definite shape. I watched the corner, and the space
lighted by diffused daylight between the side of the cabinet and the
window, and saw distinctly the outline of a human form, the legs being
visible, come apparently from the dark portion in front of the cabinet,
and move in a bent position, the back to me; it seemed clothed in
ordinary dark male costume; I could see no white, nor any other
drapery. Mr. Harrison asked and obtained permission from Peter to
bring out his lamp and take the time. Directly after, the form ap¬
peared, bearing a light in the darkest portion of the room, just in front
of me, and by the side of the fireplace; the back was again to me, and
the figure stooping, the light being held in front of it, so that only the
outline was visible; the dress, as before, dark, no drapery. Peter’s
voice asked me whether I saw him. The form then appeared to me to
turn and rise. In so doing I noticed white drapery about the head, it
having previously been without any covering; the lamp was still held
in front, and on its turning was between me and itself. As it assumed
an upright position, the drapery seemed to increase; it raised the
light and showed the well-known features of John King, and we were
addressed in his usual tone. John King then came across the room and
stood between Mr. Harrison and the long cabinet, holding his light all
the time, and saying a few words. I asked him to bring his lamp and
let me see the time on my watch by it. He approached me, and held
his light within six inches of my watch, but the hands being of gold I
could not tell the time. John King disappeared without warning, and
Peter took his place after a very slight interval. He pushed two chairs
hard up against my knees; we then asked him to do something, and for
the medium at the same instant to be convulsed in the cabinet. I had
my hand on the back of one of the chairs; I felt it being pulled several
times, and twice, while feeling the pull, heard a sound, apparently pro¬
ceeding from the cabinet. Peter then showed his light, and himself by
it. He went across the room, and into the large cabinet, and allowed
Mr. Harrison to bring out his lamp at the same time. On Mr. Harrison
blowing his up bright enough to illuminate the room for a second, Peter
said it was too much for him, and nearly caused him to melt away. The
manifestations then became gradually more public. Peter, however,
seemed very loath to go, but we told him the machinery would not act
any longer, and brought the seance to a termination.
George G. Joad.1
Oakfield, Wimbledon Park, London, April 30, 1878.
The weight of Mr. Williams, as indicated by the scale of
the present self-recording apparatus, is 153 lbs., and all
the weights in this article are referable to that scale. If
with the new apparatus it should be found to be inexact,
the variation being a constant, does not interfere with the
general value of the results.
Before quitting the practical details of these experiments,
it is a pleasure to mention that Mr. Frederic Barrett has
taken a leading part in pushing them forwards, in preparing
and managing the apparatus, and in laying the foundation
for the present results. The expenses of the original re¬
searches of the committee have been covered by contributions
given from pure love of truth, and in the uncertainty
whether any results at all would be obtained, chiefly by the
four following gentlemen—Mr. Alexander Tod, of Peebles,
£25; Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Didsbury, £15; Mr.
Alexander Calder, President of the British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, £15 ; and Mr. R. Hannah, M.R.I., £10.
There have also been a few smaller subscriptions. Mr. Black¬
burn is having a new and precise self-recording instrument
constructed, which will give results more in detail; when it
is finished, he will present it to the National Association of
Spiritualists.
WHAT IS THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE RESULTS.
By the scientific use of the imagination, hydrogen was seen
as a liquid metal, long before it was compressed into that
condition. By long observation of psychical phenomena, I
came to the conclusion that as energy in any form was made
visible or exerted by the spirits, in like proportion must it
be withdrawn from the medium, with a constant ebb and
flow between the two. These ideas I published in an article
in The Spiritualist of May 5th, 1876, which is here repro¬
duced, as new facts exactly meet the requirements of the
theory. It is not necessary to alter a word of the original
utterance:—
After attending some hundreds of materialisation seances with different
mediums, under all kinds of conditions, it has become evident to me that on
certain occasions there has been actual duplication of form; that is to say,
that while the entranced medium has been in one place, an active and intelli¬
gent temporarily materialised being, having to a large extent the features of
the unconscious medium, and robed in white, has been moving about close at
hand. If all the evidence to prove this point were collected, the case would
be a very strong one, but space will not permit. On the present occasion I
will merely repeat that once at a circle I had tight hold of Mr. Williams, as he
sat by my side all through a seance, and high up, over the table, John King
was floating, carrying his light in his hand; he illuminated his features with
it, so that I clearly saw his eyes sparkling, his lips moving, and I heard him
216
THE SPIRITUALIST
Mat 3, 1878,
speak at the time that they moved. At the moment this clear bright view of
Viim was obtained, with nothing dubious about it, his elbow was higher than
the top of my head. I was holding the hand of Mr. Williams, whose elbow
was alongside mine on the table, and his feet were touching mine. At the
great majority of materialisation stances, there has been no evidence whether
actual materialisation has taken place or not, for at many sittings mediums
are not subjected to absolute test conditions; and if they are subjected to
certain test conditions, such' as tying their hands behind their backs, sewing
their sleeves together with cotton, and sealing the knots, the abnormal power
about them can release them from such bonds in the twinkling of an eye, and
after the sitting is over they will be found secured as at the first. This in
itself seems somewhat miraculous. The fact was well tested through the
mediumship of Mrs. Compton, in America. While she was seated in a cabinet
she was secured in every possible way, even to tacking the skirts of her dress
to the floor, and sealing the heads of the tacks after her hands and arms had
been tied up. Shortly afterwards, a figure, robed in white, came out; several
of the sitters were invited to enter the cabinet, and found nothing in it; yet
afterwards, Mrs. Compton was found secured as at first. This tends to show
that although nothing visible was in that cabinet, yet some invisible form,
resembling that of Mrs. Compton, must have been there, which form, when
reclothed with matter, disclosed her bound as at first. Not the slightest reli¬
ance can be placed upon the statements of some of the spirits who produce
these manifestations, and observers should believe nothing they cannot prove
for themselves.
I may begin to set forth the explanatory ideas I have in my mind, by
speaking of the materialisation of a spirit-hand. I assume that what we call
h matter ” consists merely of surface effects with an infinity of phenomena
beneath; for although the now prevalent scientific idea that matter consists of
the infinitely rigid particles of Dalton, or of Sir William Thomson’s vortex
atoms formed of an infinitely elastic fluid, is useful in physical research, all
analogy and past experience tend to show that as knowledge increases, our
ideas of the extent of the universe, atoms included, will have to be widened.
The ancient Jews, like the physicists of to-day, had a tendency to limit the
unjverse to that which whs known to themselVes. They considered the earth
to be a small plain, on which they existed as a people specially chosen of God,
with small brilliant objects in the firmament above, known as the sun, moon,
and stars, which were put there for the sole purpose of giving light to them.
Hence, in a speculative argument like the present, I assume that physicists
are very far from having reached the limits of the knowable, in relation to the
fundamental constitution of matter.
Let us then suppose what we know and see of the human hand to be the
result of an infinity of underlying phenomena, comprising a certain amount
of energy which we will define by the number ten. I assume that when a
spirit-hand first begins to form, say twelve inches from the hand of the
medium, by means of will-power or some unknown process, the controlling
intelligence abstracts, say, one part of energy from every portion of the
medium’s hand, thus leaving nine. This first stage in the creation of a
spirit-hand I assume to produce an actual hand, invisible to the human eye,
yet capable of producing certain material effects. I think that although it
might dissolve and return whence it came if it attempted to touch another
human organism, not of the same nature as that of the medium, yet it could
lay hold of inanimate matter and move a table. One sitter at a circle, usually
a sympathetic mesmeric sensitive, will sometimes feel the grasp of a hand
where nothing is to be seen, and nobody else will see or feel anything. I
assume that this spirit-hand containing one, instead of ten parts of energy,
may be able to touch another person whose “ influence ”—as Spiritualists and
mesmerists call it—is in harmony with that of the medium.
I further assume that in the process of further materialising a spirit-hand
spirits can, by will-power, or by other means, abstract more and more energy
of different kinds, but in unaltered relative proportion, from every part of the
hand of the medium, until, say, five proportions of energy are left in the hand
of the medium, and five proportions are in the spirit-hand. At this stage both
hands ought to be palpable, visible hands to the spectators. Here I think we
have the duplication of form—that delicate state of balance of conditions
which Has existed on the few occasions when the medium and the spirit have
been seen at the same time. - Carrying this idea still farther, I think that the
power at the root of the phenomenon can go on abstracting energy from the
hand of tjie medium until at last' we have, say, nine parts 6f energy in the
spirit-hand, and only one left in the hand of the medium. At such a stage as
this—which as yet has only been reached in total darkness—the hand of the
piedium ought to be invisible, whilst the spirit-hand is densely materialised.
This may be the condition of things when mediums are released from bonds.
If so, when Mrs. Compton is out of the cabinet, the materialised form contains
eight or nine parts of the assumed ten parts of energy normally comprised in
her body; while the form thus made is walking about the room, the remaining
one or two parts are not palpable to mortal senses, yet are in the cabinet, and
perhaps keeping the tapes and seals in their proper position. An invisible
woman is there; her dress in an invisible form is there; the knots and seals
are intact, but perhaps invisible, and after the form outside the cabinet
reunites with the one inside; the circumstance that the one inside has been
there all the time accounts for the knots and seals and other fastenings of a
delicate nature being discovered at the end of the seance exactly as they were
at first.
These ideas, I think, also explain how—while the hand of a medium is held
in darkness—-a welded iron ring with no joint in it is frequently threaded on
to his arm. It will be remembered how M. Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, in a
good light, grasped the hand of Mr. Williams, then tied his own hand to that
of the medium with tape. 1 There were no rings on either of their arms; the
light was put out, and shortly afterwards the ring was threaded Upon their arms.
M. Aksakof, who- had never loosened his grasp of the hand of Mr. Williams,
took the ring and the tape back with him to Russia, to show that there was no
trickery in the material means employed. Many others have had experience of
a similar kind at spirit-circles. Now, if we assume that when M. Aksakof
took the hand of Mr. Williams, John King began to form a spirit-hand (which
he always does to produce dark circle manifestations), as he took portion
after portion of energy away from the arm of the medium, so did it become
more and more impalpable. The medium’s hand was still a material one to
the touch of M. Aksakof, but higher up, between the wrist and the
shoulder, it might have become so spiritualised that could light have been
admitted at the moment, np arm at all would have been seen there,
although a proportion of the vital invisible forces composing it had not been
removed; thus the threading on of the iron ring became possible. Mr. Crookes
and Mr. Blackburn once tied tape tightly ronnd the neck of Miss Florence
Cook, and sealed it with a signet ring.. The ends of the tape were then tied
round one of the steps of Mr, Crookes’s library ladder, and sealed. The instant
they left the cabinet Miss Cook was free, nothing but the sealed loops of- the
tape remaining. The ideas put forth in this article will serve to explain how
these results might have been produced.
From what has been said it will be seen that it is assumed that spirits can
abstract energy from all parts of inanimate objects, as well as from human
beings; that dresses, for instance, could be thus duplicated. Let us now
suppose tHat when the ninth part of energy has been abstracted from an
object, forming a kind of spirit of it, that ninth can be carried invisibly to a
distant spirit-circle, with some connecting link between it and the original
object. As the spirits abstract more energy from the one, and put it into the
other, that which was originally invisible becomes solid, and that which was
solid disappears; thus the article is moved from place to place, doors and
intervening objects forming no obstacle to its passage. And if it be said that
in this speculation I .assume that energy in some form passes through solid
matter without visibly affecting it, I reply that the case is not exceptional, for,
if you develop a photographic plate in a magnetic field strong enough to
uphold several tons of iron, that large amount of magnetism passing through
a plane where such delicate chemical reactiohs are going on, does not affect
the development in the least, so far as I have been able to see, and I have
made the experiment with frequency.
The ideas 'just set forth as to the philosophy of a portion of the process
whereby materialised forms are produced at spirit circles, may possibly be sus¬
ceptible of experimental verification. For instance, if energy is withdrawn
in the assumed manner from the hand of the medium, a decrease of vital
action will probably take place in that hand, which decrease can be measured
in various ways. If there is a diminution in the flow or volume of blood in
the hand, instruments have been devised by physiologists for registering such
changes; if, again, there is diminution of heat, it can be registered by means
of one of Siemens’ fine resistance' coils, and the changes of temperature can
be read off from minute to minute, by means of a reflecting galvanometer in
another room. The changes in the temperature of the blood of sick people
have been recorded in this way, by placing one of the little coils under one of
their armpits, and it causes them no discomfort whatever. Possibly by some
of these means, when a ninth of the total energy has been abstracted from the
hand of a medium to form a spirit-hand, the instruments would show the
change which had taken place, long before the spirit hand itself became
visible to the eye.
Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace, in his book, Miracles and Modern Spiritualism,
describes a seance with Miss Nichol, better known as Mrs. Guppy, in which a
wine glass was apparently duplicated; if not, another wine glass must have
been brought into the circle by the spirits. Mr. Wallace says :—
“We now sent for a single wine glass, which was placed on the floor between
Miss Nichol and her father, and we requested it might be struck. After a
short time it was gently tapped, producing a clear, ringing sound. This soon
changed to a sound as if two glasses were gently struck together; and now
we were all astonished by hearing in succession almost every possible sound
that could be produced by two glasses, one inside the other, even to the clang
of one dropped into another. They were in every respect identical with such
sounds as we could produce with two glasses, and with two only, manipulated
in a variety of ways, and yet I was quite sure that only one wine glass was
in the room, and every person’s hands were distinctly visible on the table.
“ We now took up the glass again, and put it on the table, where it was
held both by Miss N. and Mr. Humphreys, so as to prevent any vibration it
might produce. After a short interval of silence an exquisitely delicate sound
as of tapping a glass was heard, which increased to clear silvery notes like the
tinkling of a glass bell. These continued in varying degrees for some
minutes, then became fainter, and gradually died away.’’
Me. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M. (Cantab), honorary member of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, is about to return to
London from Hyeres, France.
Mb. W. Eglinton, physical medium, has been obtaining very re¬
markable manifestations of late, both in London and in Holland, but
we are so pressed for space this week as to be obliged to postpone the
publication of the details.
Prince Wittgenstein, honorary member of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, intends to visit Algiers in three weeks’
time. During the late war he spent most of his time in proximity to
the Emperor of Russia, doing service to him.
Mr. E. W. Wallis will deliver an inspirational address in the
Co-operative New Hall, New-place, Derby, next Sunday, at 6.30 p.m.,
under the auspices of the Derby Psychological Society. Mr. E.W.Ward
is the secretary.
Light of last week has a speculative article on the fear of death. The
author is evidently unaware that this fear is chiefly created by the false
theological notions about death and the after-life prevalent in the
world, and that Spiritualism destroys the fear of death among those of
its followers who have had two or three years’ experience.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Fact.—Scientific man A : “ Why ! how’s this ? I find your name down for
£100 on a church subscription list in your ’ neighbourhood, and you don’t
believe in the matter a bit.” Scientific man L (chuckling at the joke) :
KI know that. I do it because I’m a respectable man, sir; because I’m
a respectable man. It’s a payment I and my family make in support
of our respectability among our neighbours.”
E. K.—You should put your questions to somebody who knows something
about the alleged facts of astrology.
I R.—People of vulgar wealth, with no indwelling mental or moral resources
| inducing them to lead reputable lives, usually spend one-half their time in
| trying to scrape acquaintance with persons of title, and the. other half in
I talking about the acquaintanceship to their friends.
I New subscribers in the United States are informed that they can obtain all
| the back numbers of the present volume of The Spiritualist, by ordering
I them through Messrs. Colley and Rich, Boston, Mass.
| Spiritualists in England can have copies of The Spiritualist for distribution
j at 12s. per hundred, if their orders are sent in at once to the Branch Office,
j in Great Russell-street, London. Those on the European Continent can
I have them in packages'of twenty-five each, post free, at 5s. per package.
May 3, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOT,
MESMERISM, AHTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualismby a competent observer,
~ who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and Who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. 6d.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
' WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with ght edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums/.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F-
Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols.. crown 8vo., 15s. ,
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in "The Spiritualist "was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the msdiumship of Lizzie Doteh. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, hut these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Yala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace, The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. ■ 7s. '6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiratn n-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . • • . 13 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . 7 6
The Teacher. XX. • • • • 7 6
The Seer. „ III. „ . , • • I 6
The Reformer. „ IY. „ . .-,76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . s 7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest 1 . . . . . .76
Approaching. Crisis; or, Troth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurrihg Questions from the People . 7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . 4 3 6
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .7 6
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . . ; 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . • 1 .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . ,7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves- . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . | .50
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . ,60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims • . .26
Conjugal Love; Troth v. Theology . . i . .30
Morning Lectures . ' . . . , , ; 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, -
recommended by The SpikitualiSt Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds .. .... . , ,. . 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . ■ . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen , 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. .10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Transited into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . ... 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .‘12 0
On Exalted States Of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the' Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . ’. 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. ‘ .1 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
■ Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . ' ' . ;; ' . .18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . .   10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously "Witnessed by the Authoe and Other
Observers in London.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes ‘and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, wichout any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit message's. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volnme,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new hook by
“ M.A. (OXON),” ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of "Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psycography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses :—
1. Of Sight,—Eviuerice-of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George"
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Yon
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H. Valter; J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins;
II From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black-
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese-(Wat-
-kins).
HI From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation 0 J
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists ;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Biake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas CoIIey, W. Oxlej-/ Geofge Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a'Cibsed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing bii Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E. ' • ' ■
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The N ature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence 0 f
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C-E;
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Sr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory. ' '
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Bussell-street.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection"of choice poems arid" prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O I Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumsbip oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-inediumship
of Cora L. V.1 Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The-Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham: Mr. Peter Peckeraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgiiia Weldon (Miss Trehenie)
and Mrs. 1 —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg '■— Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
De'solatioh. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of ’“M.A., OxOn.”—Thy Love: By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits; By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C.-Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burke—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and'Peace.”! By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By-Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake; Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sebnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from'the
German of Schiller—The Relatibn of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance iu the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The-Beath-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxori.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ehnesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations' among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voics of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey—
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F.R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
 W. H. Harrison, 38, Great RusseH-street,"W.C. -
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit Circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and sucli a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,”
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Mat 3, 1878,
iv
A NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT • DISEASE AND PRE-
MATtTRE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
• Just Published, '
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
•THE LAZY LVAYS ^
AND PROSE IMAGININGS, k
T ORD BEAOONSPIELD justly stated the other
daythat “thehealthof the people, is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
ENG’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has heen found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community ah
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. I,
1877.I
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
I ‘ “ Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”-
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An -Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
■Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
.' Contents. .
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—i. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of'the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman [who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan[ to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of'Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market . Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—2i. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The.Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability. .•.. Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
ONO’S FRUIT' SALT. — A Lady writes : —
J-J “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT,
- AS A
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS PORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
n which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.    .   
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to he photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveUer should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating^ Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admir able pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus ot itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers, and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—.
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very mucli pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF^NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease :—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and ithad an effect that
. I never anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed, Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT. SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. —I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
/CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
^ Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRU.IT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d. ’
Sole Agent for Parw—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. l RUE DE
LA PAIX,
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol). .
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers. •
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It is an admirable Addition to our not too ex-
tensiye comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous,...
, Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
'From. The Bristol Daily Post. •
“A curiohs collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
; merit.,. I The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.” ’ ^
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain; or any
of, those merry- souls who do quite; as -much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. "‘TheLays
, are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work, of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind." It is a work Of • great power and beauty ; fpll of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken -thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many tiw.es over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.” ‘ ■ ) ! ' .
From The Folkestone News.
A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads,.'which
appeired in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created.such a furore at the time.” IN.B.An
ire*t member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor ana Corporation of Folkestone, to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is "bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, Lonclon, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late "Wit. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also he had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experimehts^-Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision..
CHAPTER VLucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—Tne Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Wilibythe Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S tiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbacn—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Efifects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.. Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution-Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER Xlll :—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep-^Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-MesmerLm in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous M
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVICurative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W, H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing "Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom,
in the Parish of St.,Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
