BEarsTERED as a Newspaper.
£[)« ©liwst I'litosfiirjjtr rcrmtctitij tuiili Spivihuilism hr ®«at grilahr,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia.
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 3ig, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 325. (Vol. XIII.—No. 20.) LONDON : FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Fontenta.
The 'Williams-Rita Case 229
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—Meet-
' of the Council   230
Captain R. F. Burton   ... 232
Poetry:—The Touchstone—Beautiful Things  232
Correspondence :—Soul-Ideas among the Ancient Egyp¬
tians—A Psychological Experience—The 'Williams-
Rita Case 232
A Dream of a Dead Face. (Poetry.)  ... 233
The Claims of Psychology to a Place in the Circle of the
Sciences. By Edward W. Cox, Serjeant-at-Law, Pre¬
sident of the’Psychological Society of Great Britain:—
The Position of the British Association and the An¬
thropological Institute in relation to Psychology—The
Province of Psychology—Life and Mind—Psychology
and Materialism—Psychological Phenomena—The
Objects and Name of the Psychological Society—The
Attractiveness of the Study of Psychology   ... 234
The Divining Rod ... ... ...  239
Form Manifestations in the Light of Recent Events. By
W. Stainton Moses, M.A    239
Is Clairvoyance a Form of Mediumship 1    240
Answers to Correspondents 240
Paragraphs:—Strange Fulfilment of a Dream, 229 ; A
Suggested Experiment, 232 ; Prevalent Distress 240
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
HSTABLISHKD IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countnes throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess or
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksanof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Slake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon,M.B. (India);
Mrs. Ilonywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason : Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe;. Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.RL, Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. Wilham Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the UnitedKingdom, 10s. lOd.;
In the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Oapucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should he addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street London, W.C.
Communications invited respecting
SOMNAMBULISM, of facts experienced, and references
to authentic instances and ^accurate observations' of the phe¬
nomena, for the use of the Psychological Society of Great
Britain. To be sent, confidentially, before the 20th instant, to
W. H, Coffin, Scientific Club, 7, Savile-row, London, W;
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CALENDAR FOR NOVEMBER.
Monday, 4th.—Foetnightlv Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m. Paper by Mr. J. Bonwick, F.R.G.S.
Wednesday, 6th.—Conversazione at 7 p.m Music. Re¬
freshments, and exhibition of Research
Commitjee’s scientific apparatus.
Friday, 8th.—Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Tuesday, 12th.—Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
,, „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 15th.—Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 18fA—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m. Paper by Mrs. Fitzgerald—“Ex¬
periences in the Home Circle.”
Thursday, 21sf.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ ,, Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 22nd.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m
Tuesday, 28th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Seance Committee, at 6 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. SBC.
British museum lectures—a
Course of Three Lectures (with the permission of the
authorities) will be given by C. Carter Blake, Doct. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy and Zoology, Westminster
Hospital, during the Christmas week. Hours 81 to 1. Tickets
5s. each. Address C. Carter Blake, care of 38, Great Russell-
street, W.C.   
MR. and MISS DIETZ, having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (“ One of
the most successful series ever known in London”)' are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—Ooal-
brookdale, October 29; Glasgow (City Hall), November 2;
Deal, November 19; Maidstone, November 20; Perry Barr,
December .3; New Swindon, January 8, 1879. Favourable
terms arranged with Institutes or with Progressive Societies,
en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture on
“ American Humour,” illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Now Ready. Price 2s. 6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY.
October.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Why must I do what is right ? By St. George Stock.
II.—Astrology, Ancient and Modem.
III.—Recent Investigations in Psychology. By T. P. Barkas.
IV.—Immaterialism at Brussels. By J.O. Earle.
V.—Inspiration and Symbolism. By Mrs. De Morgan.
YI.—James Hinton’s Philosophy.
VII.—^Pilgrimages in France. No. III.—Pontigny and the
Shrine of Saint Edmund. By Rev. H. N. Grimley.
VIII.—Bohme’s Seven Days of Creation—A Study. By A. A.
Watts.
IX.—Materialistic Mysticism.
Hutton on Scott’s Supernaturalism—The Education of the
Feelings—Around the World with Dr. Peebles—Evolution.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price 6d.; post free, 7£d.; cloth.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
of the British National association of Spiritualists. .
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
IMPOSSIBILITIES MADE PROBABLE
Consisting of three propositions, viz.:—1. Vitality makes
Matter. 2. Soul is Omnipotent. 8. A Persistent Life Natural
to Man. By J. M. London: Charles Watts, 84, Fleet-street,
E.C. Price 6d
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
 Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
 Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Nov. 4.—Mr. Bonwick, F.R.G.S., “ Sou] Ideas amongst the
Ancient Egyptians.”
Nov. 18.—Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, “ Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 1.”
Dee. 2.—Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., “ Spiritualism in
Eastern Lands.”
Dec. 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A:, “ The intelligent Operator
at the other end of the Line.”
Jan. 6.—Baroness von Yay, “ Visions in Vessels of Water.”
Jan. 20.—Mr. W. H. Harrison, “ Hauntings.”
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Dr. Carter Blake, “ On the Nerve Ether.”
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mrs. Ellis, “Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2."
April 7.—Dr. Bloede, “ Psychometry.”
April 21.—Mr. C. C. Massey. “ On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May 5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ Review of the Session."
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, LudgateCircus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”,
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, <fec., Ac.
post free, seven stamps. ■
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildingS, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
1]
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 15, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President. I
Alex. Ca'der, Esq., 1, Ilereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman. Beniamin, 1 Bernard-villas, tinner Norwood.
Fltz-Oerald, Mrs , 19, Cambridpre-street, Hyde-narlc, W.
Fltz-Gerald, Desmond G-, M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Biixton,
S.W.
Oregory, Mrs. Makdouerall,21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood Mrs., H2, VVai'wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C , Barrister-at-law, Ha-reourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, StanhopeTempleman,M.D.,Douglas House, IS, Alexandra-
read, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adsbead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , Langley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A.. 24, St Ann’s-square. Manchester
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S., Yale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H„ 94, Cornwali-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H , 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Oheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald,Mrs. D. G., 6, Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sheoter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, De.Jamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson. Geo,, Spencer-terrace, Louis-street. Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart,, Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oaktleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road, Dalston.
Morse, J J., Elm Tree-terrace, Dttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., TTniversity College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newhould, Rev. w. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 15, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett.-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. 0., 3, Bland ford-square. N.W.
Reimers, Christian. 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. O. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford.
Theobald, More!!. 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M.. 62, Granville-park, Blackhea.th,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J-, 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Caldor, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
S.W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guidenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Yisconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
H. Gustave de Veb, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delbez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-si reet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 198, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pris Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de I’Uurope,
Paris.
Rev. SamuelWatson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 .Montgomory-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassomplerre. 285, ChaussoeSt. Pierre.Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Gomte Le de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq,, 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul. Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe,. Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epfjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Be!grave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Haliock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet. Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street. Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128. West 43rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 58, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society,Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Slgdon-road, Dalston-Iaue, ■
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Esplrltista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.O. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
WOBKS BY THE COUNTESS OF CAITHNESS.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII, Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glen are.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. Od.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
pbilosopbical and scientific subjects; editorial department:
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., <fcc. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O.
T>llIGHTON.—'The Spiritualist may be ob-
JL> tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; andMr.Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE. BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds qf Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St Honord,
Paris.
BW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
w. is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Friday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from Ip.m,
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS.M.G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM AND CLAIR¬
VOYANCE.—Professor Adolphe Didier (33 years estab¬
lished) attends Patients and may be consulted at bis residence
from 2 to 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
Consultations by letter.
MESMERIC HEALER.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5.
MR. HOWARD COTTON, Painting Me¬
dium, desires employment for architectural or ether
drawings. Care of Pearce, stationer, Coleherne-terrace,
Redcliffe-square, Brompton.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
-tJL ITALIA—Rivista Fsicologica di Niceford Filalete.
Published on the 15ih of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, vift Bogino, No. 23.
Heaven opened,- or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened." The two parts bound in ofte volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
IHOLKESTONE. —- Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
Brighton.—miss wood, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. Terms on ap
plication, 
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3 per week
each ; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M, A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Gqs-
sonnerie, Paris,
3|||isp ot Hi of % anft of ^jtitjtlttafiont.
Ko. 325—Volume T hirteen; Kumber Twejmty.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15th, 1878.
THE WILLIAMS-RITA CASE.
Several London mediums, including Messrs. Williams,
Rita, and Eglinton, have almost nightly for some years
obtained powerful manifestations off their own premises, at
dark seances while they have been held the whole time by
both hands by responsible and critical witnesses. Under
these conditions, which they submitted themselves to nearly
every night of their lives, solid objects, such as arm chairs,
were moved about the room, floated over the heads of sitters,
and piled one above the other on the table. Sometimes living
spirit heads and shoulders have been seen floating over and
near the sitters, while the mediums were so held. The forms
were robed in white drapery, and lit themselves up with a
phosphorescent-like light. Whenever pieces of the drapery
covering the floating forms have been cut off, they have been
of common fabric, machine made, consequently brought in
from some place or places as yet unknown, just as fruit and
flowers are commonly brought to spirit circles. Therefore,
while a medium is held from first to last, if one of these
forms were seized at a distance from him, it is probable that
there would be a violent union of the living organisms, by
either the dragging of the medium from those holding him,
or the dragging of the form to the medium. The drapery
brought in would probably remain, and, as in every previous
instance, prove to be of mortal manufacture. The forms
themselves, whenever they have had life in them, have, so
far as our experience has gone, always been the duplicates of
the forms and features of the medium, covered with the
masquerading gear already mentioned. The things carried
in cannot all be numbered among the necessities of dress.
A false beard is not an indispensable article of costume. It
would be useful to learn where the things come from, and
whether the medium, when in a state of normal conscious¬
ness, knows their whereabouts. If a form were to be seized
as described, and the stated results obtained, the medium
could not be charged with imposture with any certainty that
the charge was a just one, though the false beard on a form
apart from the medium would be evidence of intention, on
the part of somebody unknown, to mislead observers to a
certain extent. But if the medium were so unwise as to
give one of those cabinet sittings which have of late been
so condemned by thinking people, because of their incon¬
clusive nature and the suspicions they arouse, then when
drapery is seized under the phenomenal conditions already
stated, the medium is liable to be charged with imposture.
Thus, for the same manifestation, the medium would be
charged with imposture in the one case, and be held guiltless
by the same people in the other.
Without the clearing up of this vital point, how could the
Special Committee of the National Association of Spiritu¬
alists come to an unquestionable decision in the Williams-
Rita case ? If those two mediums choose to announce that
henceforth they will professionally give none but seances
in which their hands will be held all the time, and if the
spirits commonly amuse themselves in future at such stances
by bringing in and leaving on the table a heap of drapery,
which they can easily do, the knowledge will grow in the
public mind that another solution of the Dutch charge than
the one given by the committee is possible; also that eight
years of good character entitled Mr. Williams to the benefit
of the doubt. The general dissatisfaction of the public with
cabinet stances had been published by Mr. Stainton-
Moses and others long before the fracas in Holland, and until
mediums with the kind of power possessed by Mr. Williams
announce that they will give no more dark seances unless
they are held by both hands all the time, they will be a
source of uneasiness to their friends, and keep the movement
in constant danger.
If, at Amsterdam, the two mediums obtained strong
manifestations the first part of the evening while their
hands were held, it is proof that they were so far under
spirit control that very night, that the spirits about them
j must have known of the intended use, later on, of
!! masquerading gear by spirits or mediums
M It is not a fact, as some assert, that bad results are
; | always caused by the bad spiritual state of the sitters. The
i Davenports always had bad, ignorant, and uproarious
I i sitters, yet regularly obtained unquestionable manifestations.
| Mr. Jencken has numbers of private stances with nobody
i j but himself and Mrs. Jencken present, or a few selected
| i sitters, and testifies that the spirits tell quantities of “object-
> j less lies.” We have known spirits to wilfully deceive when
II none but truthful and friendly elements were present in the
J i circle. This is part of the dark side of Spiritualism, amid
i much that is bright. It is true that unpleasant sitters
11 sometimes exercise a marked influence over the manifesta-
11 tions, but those who say that bad spirits will never attempt
I to deceive a good circle are in error. Several truthful people
j i have had to give up writing mediumship because of mali-
(j cions untruths written through their own hands while they
| were alone. The experience of some other writing mediums,
| i on the contrary, has been all good. Spiritualism opens the
j gates of a new world, in which good and evil are intermixed.
The outside public, and most of those who have had limited
11 experience in psychic phenomena, will largely endorse the
(| action of the Special Committee; but those privileged Spirit-
\) ualists who have constantly had strong phenomena in their
) | own families in their own homes—such as Mrs. Showers,
11 Mr. Jencken, and Mr. and Mrs. Cook—and who know the
| annoying pranks which some of the spirits who produce
I physical manifestations are constantly playing, are exactly
! the persons who would not be so sure about the accuracy of
I the committee’s decision. As the medium is almost always
11 in a dead trance when materialisation manifestations are at
I their height, it is little use asking him about the charac-
| teristics of the phenomena ; in fact, Spiritualists have all
I along gained more information about the phenomena by
| careful personal observation than they have obtained by
j questioning spirits or the majority of mediums.
If the spirits henceforth take to bringing drapery to Mr.
| Williams in private houses while his hands are held, this
! fact, coupled with his eight years’ good character, amid
I all the trials, and troubles, and severe persecution in past
| years incidental to professional mediumship, will do much
j to show that the view of the case here brought forward
I deserves weighing. It is a painful case, and the divisions of
I opinion on the Council as to the best course to pursue under
| the circumstances, faithfully represent the equally con-
! scientious divisions of opinion out of doors.
< | Strange Fulfilment of a Dream !—In connection with the City of
)! Glasgow Bank failure, we have heard of a somewhat peculiar instance
j! of the literal fulfilment of a dream. On the day preceding the announce-
}; ment of the stoppage of the bank, a Dundee commission agent called at
) i a grocery shop in Overgate for payment of an account. The shopkeeper
< i produced his cheque-book, wrote out an order for the sum due, and then
( handed it to the agent. At this time the wife of the shopkeeper entered,
) and, pointing to the cheque-book lying on the counter, said it brought to
( her recollection a dream she had during the night to the effect that the
( bank had failed, and that all their money was lost. Though the dream
i) had escaped her memory up till that time, it possessed so strong a hold
11 of her mind that she suggested to her husband the propriety of an
j immediate withdrawal of his money. The shopkeeper’s faith in the
j I stability of the bank was not to be shaken, however, by what he charac-
(j terised as an idle dream, and accordingly he rejected what proved to be
j | the prudent counsel of his wife. Of course the next morning, when he
i 11 found his money <l locked up,’’ it was mortifying for him to reflect that
n j he would have had the cash in his own possession if he had followed
i j | his wife’s prophetic warning. The commission agent, we may add, had
! (| not the slightest suspicion that the bank was in difficulties, but the
(| relation of the strange story deeply impressed him, and, acting on the
11 j impulse of the moment, he went at once to the bank and cashed the
cheque.—Dundee Advertiser,
230
Nov. 15, 1878
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday night, at the ordinary monthly meeting of the Council
of the British National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. Alexander
Calder, president, occupied the chair. The other members present were
Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Fitz¬
Gerald, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P., Mrs. Maltby, Mr. C. C.
Massey, Rev. W. W. Newbould, M.A., Mrs. Edwin Ellis, Mr. Cornelius
Pearson, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mrs. Lowe, Mr. T. H. Edmands,
Mr. March, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Miss Withall, Mr. W.
H. Coffin, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Miss Houghton, the Rev. W. Stainton-
Moses, M.A., and Mr. Harrison.
Mr. Stainton-Moses proposed, and Mr. Harrison seconded, that Pro¬
fessor Zbllner be invited to become an honorary member of the Asso- .,
ciation. Mrs. Makdougall Gregory proposed, and Mr. Harrison j(
seconded, that the Baron Du Potet be also invited to become an i)
honorary member. Both these propositions were passed unanimously. i)
Mr. Morell Theobald reported that the Finance Committee had a I (
balance in hand of .£82 Os. 6d.; it recommended payments to the extent I)
of £71 17s. Id., and estimated the total outstanding liabilities of the jt
Association at £>5. j
The Secretary then read the following letter from Mr. Fabyan )
Da we :—* )
“ S, Portman-street, Nov. 11,1878. (
“ To the Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists. )
“ Gentlemen,—I observed with great regret the adoption of the resolutions (
of Mr. Bennett and others, giving comnaittees power to keep some of their (
official transactions secret from the members of the Association. I consider )
secrecy in any form very prejudicial to the interests of any society, more )
especially one looked upon with the prejudiced eyes with which the public (
regard Spiritualism. \
“For my own part I beg to withdraw my name and support as long as the )
said resolution remains on the books of the society.—Yery truly yours, )
“ N. Fabyan Dawe. (
‘ ‘ P.S.—In writing this I represent several other members of the Association. (
“ N. F. D.” |
Mr. Stainton-Moses said that Mr. Dawe was under some misappre- (
hension, for the Council had taken no new power, except the withholding )
of such unfinished business of committees as was absolutely necessary. )
There was no desire to throw a veil over anything.
Mr. Morell Theobald said that nothing was kept secret which the j
public ought to know. )
Mr. Harrison remarked that Mr. Dawe had not said that there was a j (
desire to keep anything secret. Power had been taken to keep the un- i)
reported business of committees secret if it were chosen so to do. The j (
Council could never have proper control of its committees until it had j!
their minutes read over at its meetings. As an example of business ) I
transacted in committees of which the Council knew nothing, among ( I
the waste scribbling paper then lying on the table he had just noticed a (i
printed circular with “ The British National Association of Spiritualists ” )!
at the top, and Mr. Bennett’s name at the bottom. That circular had (j
been written, printed, and issued to the public months ago without the {j
knowledge of the Council; after it had been put in circulation the 11
Council had not been told of its existence, and had never authorised 11
payment for the printing of it out of the funds of the Association. In (i
short, the Council would have known nothing about the circular had he ) i
not just accidentally found it on the table. u
Mr. Dawson Rogers said that it had been issued in connection with ) j
some business which the Council had ordered to be transacted. The | j
committees could not come to the Council for authority to do every little (j
thing of that kind, or they would never get through their work.
Mr. C. C. Massey remarked that whatever the Council might have j) |
done, Mr. Dawe’s letter contained something like a menace, so was not ! j j
a document to which the Council could pay deferential attention. He j)!
thought that the secretary should merely acknowledge receipt, and !)
point out any errors in fact, if it contained any. If their actions were j s j
to be influenced by communications of that kind, the Association had !) j
better cease to exist. )
Mr. Bennett moved, and Miss Houghton seconded, that a deputation j \ i
wait upon Mr. Dawe and explain the matter in conversation. j I
Mr. Harrison objected to public work being done in secret talk, j)!
behind closed doors. ’ j j
Mr. Stainton-Moses thought that the Council should write in the 15 i
regular way, through the secretary. j) |
Mr. Massey objected not only to submit to a menace, but to adopt the j j j
undignified course of sending a deputation to Mr. Dawe to “ smooth him | (j
down.” He would move :— ) |
That the secretary be instructed to write to Mr. Dawe, pointing out the j
facts of the case, and leaving him to take what steps he may hereafter think ) |
proper. ( j
Mr. March seconded this, and added that the secretary had better j) i
inform Mr. Dawe that he had been misinformed. A number of slanders j j i
had been published against the Council. i)!
Mr. C. C. Massey rose to order. I}!
Mr. Stainton-Moses said that the secretary should point out very | j i
strongly that the Council had taken no new powers. So far as the |) i
committee with which he was connected was concerned, it reported to jti
the Council everything of public interest. 0 ^
Mr. Harrison said that Mr. Bennett’s resolution took new powers. i) i
It was then ordered to be read, as follows j j j
That it be considered a breach of privilege on the part of any member of the ; ) i
Association to make public comments and- criticisms on the proceedings- of i / |
its committees, and on the action of individual members on those committees, j | ]
except as they are brought' before the Council by their own reports or j ( i
otherwise. j \ i
Mr. Massey slated that that resolution took no new powers. ■ 1
Mr. Harrison replied that in conjunction with another resolution it
gave power to keep from the public the unreported business done in
committees, as he had pointed out in a notice of motion. The vital
points were :—(l) Committees had entered resolutions on their books,
which the chairmen had not reported to the Council; (2) Mr. Joy’s
motion prohibited members of the Association from seeing those and
other minutes without the special permission of the Council; and (3)
Mr. Bennett’s motion censured the press if it made the unreported
minutes known to the public. Those three points would bear any
amount of examination without being shaken. It had been said that
any member of the Council could ask for the production of an
unreported minute. But if the member did not know of its existence,
how could he call for it? He knew by letters from representative men
that he had the members of the Association with him in the line of
action he had taken on this subject.
After some further discussion it was moved by Mr. Stainton-Moses,
seconded by Mr. Bennett, and passed with only one dissentient (Mr.
Harrison) :—
That the secretary, in her reply, point out that Mr. Dawe’s letter argues
on a false issue, and that the Council has taken no new powers whatever.
The Society announced that Mr. Harrison had brought from Paris
copies of the photographs taken by Count de Bullet at his seances,
which the Count had kindly presented to the Association. On the
motion of the President a warm vote of thanks was passed to Count
de Bullet for his gift.
Mr. Dawson Rogers, as chairman of the committee, then read the
following report of the special committee on the Williams-Rita case :—
To the Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The committee appointed to consider the charges brought against Mr. C.
E. Williams by friends in Amsterdam, and to report the result of their
deliberations to the Council, have the honour to report as under :—
The committee have no reason whatever to doubt the genuineness of Mr.
Williams’s mediumship, which they regard as conclusively established by the
irrefragable evidence of competent witnesses.- They desire, however, to sug¬
gest to inexperienced observers, that while on the one hand discovery of
trickery is no proof that the deceiver is not really a medium, so on the other
hand the existence of genuine mediumistic powers is no guarantee that the
medium will never resort to the practice of deception. A public physical
medium—when not placed under stringest test conditions—has many tempta¬
tions to simulate phenomena. Genuine manifestations are often obtainable
only by a great expenditure of vital energy ; they are always more or less
uncertain ; and they frequently fail altogether to satisfy the sitters—so that,
by simulating certain manifestations, the dishonest medium avoids the expen¬
diture of strength and vitality, affords in most cases greater satisfaction
to inexperienced observers, and thus is able to give more seances and to earn
more money than by acting conscientiously; while, if his character as a
genuine medium should be impugned, he has generally the resource of offering
to obtain indubitable phenomena under rigid test conditions. All these con¬
siderations are, however, no justification of fraud, and the attempt to deceive
by pretended manifestations is deserving of the gravest possible censure. The
case of Mr. Williams has occupied the careful and very anxious attention of
your committee, and, after an interview with Mr. Williams, and a careful
investigation of the evidence, they regret to have to report that the charges
brought against him by the friends in Amsterdam have, in the opinion of
your committee, been sustained. Your committee therefore recommend the
Council to direct that Mr. Williams shall not be again employed for the
purposes of the Stance Committee, and that the same rule shall also in future
apply to every medium whom the Council shall believe to have in any instance
resorted to deception.
(Signed)
E. Dawson Rogers, Chairman. Richard Pearce.
0. Pearson. Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald.
W. Miall. R. A. March.
Morell Theobald. H. Withall.
Mr. Dawson Rogers moved, and Mr. Marcli seconded, the adoption
of the above report.
Mr. Massey wished to know, as the committee had been exercising
judicial powers, whether the witnesses for the prosecution had
attended and been cross-examined by Mr. Williams.
Mr. Dawson Rogers replied that the charge had been read over to
Mr. Williams, and his defence did not necessitate the cross-examina¬
tion of the Amsterdam friends.
Mr. Massey then moved an amendment that the report be received,
but not adopted. He never knew a j udicial investigation which could
be conducted with a due regard to the interests of justice unless the
witnesses could be examined and cross-examined by those on the oppo¬
site side. If there were no necessity for cross-examination it followed
that there was no discrepancy between Mr. Williams’s defence and the
accusation. This was no mere legal technicality, but a canon of
justice admitted all over the world, and the evils of judging even on
Chancery affidavits were admitted. The only ground the National
Association had for going into the matter at all was whether Mr. Wil¬
liams should be employed by two of its committees, and Mr. Williams
ought not to be condemned before the world on such evidence.
Mr. Stainton-Moses seconded the amendment. The special com¬
mittee had been appointed by a narrow majority, and a report coming
from a divided house would do harm; it would breed dissension,
discussion, and trouble if it wrere not unanimous. The Association
could ill afford to pursue such a course.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald remarked that if they received a report stating a
medium to have been guilty of cheating, they would be in a false
position if they afterwards asked the public to meet him. He thought
it wrong to speak of this as a judicial inquiry. A medium stood in
relation to Spiritualism much as a minister stood in relation to his
church, and if any charge is brought against a minister, his church is
bound in self defence to inquire into it. The Association ought to try
to stop a system of cheating.
Mr. Bennett stated that the Association must keep its character clear
from condoning imposture; if it did not adopt the report it would be in
Nov. 15, 1878.
231
THE SPIRITUALIST.
an inexcusably weak position before the general public. He did not
think that it amounted to a judicial decision, but to a strong expression
of opinion. If they received the report and said nothing about it, it
would be one of the weakest and most damaging positions the Council
could take up.
Mrs. Lowe would have spoken willingly against the rejection of the
report, had it not been that the committee had exercised judicial
functions without judicial machinery; she herself had suffered severely
and lost several cases from a similar system. The Association ought
never to have entered upon the inquiry.
Mr. March argued that the objectors should not try to shirk or avoid
the report.
Mr. Stainton-Moses did not wish to avoid the report, and objected
to imputation of motives of the kind. He objected to the report on
purely public grounds.
Mr. Dawson Rogers in reply said that he felt strongly on the whole
question. Mr. Williams was not only a medium, but a member of the
Association, therefore the Council was bound to inquire into the charge.
The report was not so strong as he desired it to be, for those who wished
it to be more comprehensive had yielded to those who wished the in¬
sertion of no clause against the employment of Mr. Williams by the
Research Committee; not that it mattered much, for if Mr. Williams
were invited he would probably not accept an engagement from that
committee. In merely recommending that Mr. Williams should not be
engaged again by the Seance Committee, he thought that he had been
let down very gently.
A division was then taken. Mr. Wedgwood, Mrs. Gregory, and Mr.
Coffin had previously left the meeting.
For Mr. Massey’s amendment:—Mr. Massey, Mrs. Lowe, Mr.
Stainton-Moses, Mr. Newbould, and Mr. Pearson. Total five.
Against the amendment:—Mr. Dawson Rogers, Mr. Fitz-Gerald, Mr.
and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Theobald, Mr. Withall, Mr.
Pearce, Mr. Bennett, Mr. March, Mrs. Ellis, and Mr. Edmands. Total
eleven.
The amendment was therefore lost by a majority of six.
Mrs. Lowe then moved another amendment, as follows :—
That the Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists, having
through a committee investigated the charges against Mr. Williams, recognises
the difficulty of arriving at truth without personal examination of witnesses
and judicial machinery, therefore abstains from pronouncing a judicial opinion
on the.subject.
Mrs. Lowe said that they should also remember that spirits often
carried things from one place to another.
Mr. Massey seconded the amendment.
Messrs. March and Bennett objected to it.
Mr. Dawson Rogers said that if the amendment were carried it would
make mediums think that they could go on deceiving to any extent,
without the Council having power to express an opinion. It had been
said that spirits might have carried the things in, but Mr. Williams
himself did not raise that defence. He told the committee that he did
not know how the things came there. He was asked, “ Did he mean
by that that spirits might have done it? ” He replied, “ Yes.” He was
then asked, “ Was it within his experience that spirits brought to circles
drapery which was dirty and worn out by frequent usage?” He replied,
“ No,” and gave up the idea that it might be spirits. The drapery had
been worn into holes it had been so long used, and it had been roughly
darned here and there, apparently not by a woman.
Mr. Stainton-Moses did not doubt the truth of the statements made
by the Dutch. He was acting solely on public grounds in opposing the
adoption of the report.
A division then took place.
For Mrs. Lowe’s amendment:—Mrs. Lowe, Mr. Massey, Mr.
Harrison, Mr. Newbould, Mr. Stainton-Moses, and Mr. Pearson.
Total six.
Against the amendment':—Mr. Dawson Rogers, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald,
Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Theobald, Mr. Withall, Mr.
Pearce, Mr. Bennett, Mr. March, Mrs. Ellis, and Mr. Edmands. Total
eleven.
The amendment was, therefore, lost by a majority of five.
The original motion of Mr. Dawson Rogers was then put, and was
voted for by Mr. Dawson Rogers, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs.
Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Theobald, Mr. Withall, Mr. Pearce, Mr.
Bennett, Mr. March, Mrs. Ellis, and Mr. Edmands. Total eleven.
Against the adoption of the report:—Mrs. Lowe, Mr. Massey, Mr.
Newbould, Mr. Stainton-Moses, and Mr. Pearson. Total five.
The report was thus adopted by a majority of six.
Mr. Stainton-Moses moved, and Mrs. Lowe seconded:—
That it is inexpedient to publish the report of the Special Committee, or the
discussion upon it.
Mr. Stainton-Moses, Mrs. Lowe, and Mr. Pearson voted for the
motion.
Eleven members voted against the motion. Their names were not
recorded.
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald gave notice that at the next meeting he
should move a resolution to invite the Rev. Thomas Colley, who was
known to be the author of an anonymous letter in The Medium of
November 1st, either to withdraw, or formulate into a distinct charge
and to substantiate, what appeared to be an imputation of a disgraceful
character against what Mr. Colley called “the authorities” of the
Association. For the present he would forbear to characterise the
letter according to his opinion of it.
The proceedings then closed.
[If the word “ fraud” used in the general statements in the report of the Special Com¬
mittee is supposed to mean the obtaining of money, and to possibly refer to Mr. Williams,
its use is altogether unwarranted. Mr. Williams was not professionally engaged at the
Amsterdam seance. It was Mr. Rita's seance, and Mr. Williams sat also as a medium,
merely to oblige the company.—ED. of Spiritualist.]
CAPTAIN.R. F. BURTON.
The Hornet of November 6th contains the following account of the
career of Captain R. F. Burton, one of the honorary members of the
British National Association of Spiritualists :—
Captain Richard Burton is one of the greatest personalities of the
age. Had he lived in mythical times his memory would have been
regarded as that of a demigod. In every manly walk of life he has
distinguished himself. His devoted wife, in her work on Syria, has
summarised his career in a few pages.
He began life at Oxford, says Mrs. Burton, and was destined for the
Church, but he yearned so much after military service that his father,
colonel in the 36th, procured him a commission in the Indian Army,
and sent him out to India in 1842, at the end of the Afghan war. He
was nineteen years in the Bombay Army, eight years in active service,
chiefly on the staff of Sir Charles Napier, who soon discovered his
merits, and turned them to account. He quickly passed examinations
in eight Oriental languages—Hindostani, Persian, Arabic, and others.
He speaks and knows thoroughly twenty-nine languages, not county
dialects. As a horseman, swordsman, and shot he became unsur¬
passed. In 1861, when the Indian Army changed hands, he was
brought under the reduction, and the whole of his nineteen years’
service was thus swept out. This was the end of his military career.
During the time he was not in active service he was serving science
and civilisation by opening up unknown lands. Pie was the first to
lead the way for Livingstone, Baker, Speke and Grant, and Stanley
in African exploration. He is the only man not a true Moslem and
Oriental wrho has ever performed the pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina.
In 1856 he set out for his great .exploration of the lake regions of
Central Africa, when he discovered Tanganyika, and made the first
attempt to open up the Nile. After an absence of three years, during
which he suffered from fever, paralysis, and blindness, he returned
home, and then went to America, spending six weeks with Brigham
Young at the Salt Lake City, and travelled during his expedition 25,000
. miles.
When, in 1861, he came under the Indian reduction, Lord John
Russell sent him as consul to Fernando Po, with the Bight of Biafra as
his jurisdiction! For three years he did good service on the West
Coast of Africa, but the only acknowledgment he' received was a
private note of thanks from Earl Russell. He was then transferred to
Santos, in Brazil, whence for four years he made explorations of the
coast and the interior. From South America he was despatched to
Damascus, a situation for which he was admirably suited ; but, having
excited the jealousies of the Governor, Captain Burton was recalled,
and sent to Trieste, where he remains as Her Majesty’s Consul.
Such a man as this, who, in addition to what he has personally
achieved, has written some thirty volumes, would in any other country
but this have been exalted to high place, yet he has scarcely been
acknowledged by the State. The world will agree with Mrs. Burton
that her husband should, according to his work and merits, be “Envoy
Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to some Eastern Court.”
His talents, knowledge, experience, and merits, obviously fit him for
such a position. As a soldier, as a Government Envoy, as a Foreign
Office Commissioner, as an author, as a linguist, as a benefactor to
science, as an explorer, and as a discoverer, he has done the State
service. Surely Captain Burton’s exploits entitle him to national recog¬
nition.- It is not yet too late, and it is to be hoped that Richard
Burton will yet occupy a place worthy of unparalleled deserts.
A Suggested Experiment.—-Mr. C. F. Varley, F.R.S., closes the
following letter to Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Didsbury, with a sug¬
gestion in relation to materialisation manifestations. Anybody who
makes the mixture recommended by Mr. Yarley should not place his
mouth close to the vessel containing it, as the pungently acrid fumes
would there be too intense:—“Dear Sir,—For purifying the air of
rooms, put about two ounces (fluid) of nitric acid, specific gravity
1'55, into a porcelain vessel, or good stoneware, such as a soup plate ;
place this in the room, and renew the acid every second or third day.
The vapour is totally uninjurious to the lungs, beyond producing
sometimes a little irritation when strong, which is quite temporary.
If too strong, breathe through a linen or cotton handkerchief. This
is a wonderful preventative of typhus and other contagious fevers
and of small-pox. The vapour rusts steel rapidly, and attacks
brass when not well lacquered. The mixture burns carpets, and the
fingers, if it be poured upon them. The acid, if pure, gives off white
fumes j if it gives off red fumes, it will be very irritating to the lungs.
A piece of wood or metal will, if it fall into the acid, cause these fumes.
The atmosphere consists of four volumes of nitrogen and one volume
of oxygen. Nitric acid consists of one volume of nitrogen, ten of
oxygen, and some water. I have great reason to think this,vapour
will prevent the materialisation of spirits, and keep away those low
ones who are troublesome.—C. F. Yarley, 2, Gt. Winchester-street,
London, E.G.”
Weighing Apparatus.—Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Didsbury, informs us
of his intention to present more apparatus to the National Association of
Spiritualists, for the purpose of automatically registering the weight of a
spirit form at One end of the room while the medium is being weighed at the
other. This will be another liberal gift, of which science and the whole
Spiritualistic movement will derive the benefit.
A Seance at Hackney.—On Friday last, at a private seance held in the
house of Mr. Corner, 3, St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney, London, Mr. Haxby
was the medium. While his hands were held by trustworthy persons, in t e
dark, at one side of the room,v'spirit hands touched and som.times grasped
everybody at the other side of the room: Lights of a phosphorescent appear¬
ance, and visible to everybody, floated about from floor to ceiling. A large
round table in the centre of the circle was quietly turned bottom upwards and
left in that position, and a heavy couch near the medium (whose hands were
never released, was set on end. Mr. Martheze, of Palmoira-squaro, Brighton,
and Captain John James, of Blackheath, were among the witnesses present.
232
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. is, 1873.
ptiettjv
THE TOUCHSTONE.
The following poem is by William Allingbam, an Irish writer :
A man there came, whence none could tell,
Bearing a Touchstone in his hand,
And tested all things in the land •
By its unerring spell.
A thousand transformations rose
From fair to foul, from foul to fair ;
The golden crown he did not spare,
Nor scorn the beggar’s clothes.
Of heirloom jewels, prized so much,
Were many changed to chips and clods ;
And even statues of the gods
Crumbled beneath its touch.
Then angrily the people cried,
“ The loss outweighs the profit far ;
Our goods suffice us as they are :
We will not have them tried.”
And, since they could not so avail
To check his unrelenting quest,
They seized him, saying, “ Let him test
How real is our jail I”
But though they slew him with the sword,
And in a fire his Touchstone burned,
Its doings could not be o’orturned,
Its undoings restored.
And when to stop all future harm,
They strewed its ashes on the breeze,
They little guessed each grain of these
Conveyed the perfect charm.
BEAUTIFUL THINGS.
Beautiful faces are those that wear—
It matters little if dark or fair—
Whole-souled honesty printed there.
Beautiful eyes are those that show
Like crystal panes where hearth-fires glow,
Beautiful thoughts that burn below.
Beautiful lips are those whose words
Leap from the heart like songs of birds,
Yet whoso utterance prudence girds.
Beautiful hands are those that do
Work that is earnest, brave, and true,
Moment by moment the long day through.
Beautiful feet are those that go
On kindly ministries to and fro,
Down lowliest way, if God wills it so.
Beautiful shoulders are those that bear
Ceaseless burdens of homely care,
With patient grace and daily prayer.
Beautiful lives are those that bless—
Silent rivers of happiness,
Whose hidden fountains but few may guess.
Beautiful twilight, at set of sun,
Beautiful goal, with race well won,
Beautiful rest, with work well done. Public Opinion.
(Eortesponuence.
[ Great freedom is offered to cor respondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
he returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.']  
SOUL-IDEAS AMONG THE ANCIENT EGYPTIANS.
Sir,—There are two or three errors in your report of what I said the
other evening, the result of misapprehension. It was quite impossible
forme to “condemn the school of Egyptologists represented by Max
Muller,” as he is not an Egyptologist at all. Also what I said of the
sound “ Fu” had no relation to Grimm’s law operating in the Greek.
The fatuous futility of quoting from the Greek alphabet as a per contra
or answer to anything advanced by me, was equal to quoting the
Mosaic six days of creation against geology and evolution.
In answer to Dr. Wilde, who led the aside by his questions respecting
the remote antiquity of the Egyptians, I observed that the difference
in the human race who might have first uttered the sound “ fu ”
with open lips, and those who could shut down the lips to utter
the sound “ ep ” amounted, in my opinion, to the development
of a new species, almost equal in value to that of the missing
link. And lest this “ fu ” should be mistaken for a ph (0), which
is a word“peh” in Egyptian before it becomes a phonetic, I
said this “fu” was an original type distinct from, although equivalented
by the Peh, ppeh, Ph, and Ba, all of which relate to opening the mouth
and expelling the breath. “ Fu ” is represented by the Cerastes snake;
the snake is one of the very oldest symbols, and there is evidence to
show that the “fu ” mode of expulsion is the oldest form of what are
afterwards termed labials. For example, the earliest sounds were
emitted by opening and not by closing the lips; hence syllabics termi¬
nating with a vowel are earlier than those ending with a consonant.
Hence there are North American Indians without distinct labials, and
when told to close the lips to sound the p, b, or m, they laughed at the
idea of shutting your mouth to speak.
What I did say of the Hottentot words was that in certain cases
11 collated by me the T click was obviously brought on as the Egyptian
11 feminine article T for “ the.”
! I Nor did I suppose the Dutch navigators were conversant with
J Egyptian literals. I denied altogether that the Dutch conferred the
name of Hottentot; and said that as the word was a name used for a
peculiar kind of stammering, that is of imperfect speech, and as
I “Haut” in Egyptian means to go first, precede, commence, “en”
means “of,” and “tot” is speech or language, Haut-en-tot is a pure
Egyptian name for those who preceded or were the predecessors of lan¬
guage, ergo those who clicked and used protophones and gestures.
I probably did Anglicise the word Eidolon and not make the second
I syllable long. I am not a Greek scholar. All the Greek I know has
| been self-gathered, with the aid of a little written, not oral instruction,
and that solely for the purpose of verification in certain cases that con¬
cern my work. All the world knows, or may know, that I did not pass
through the classical curriculum ; and sometimes when I see the mental
products of that process, the Holofernian specimens of pedantic word-
mongering, I thank Providence for preserving me. A false quantity or
accent is bad to the educated ear. Even the donkey that I used as a
boy to imitate when he brayed would resent my incorrect imitation, which
was wanting in emphasis somewhere, and he often reproached me by
repeating the genuine thing true to accent and quantity. Jack was
justified. Nevertheless, a false accent is not the worst kind of falseness
in the world, and what I said was entirely intended to be true. There¬
fore, I did not say the “ Book of the Dead ” was 7,000 years old; I only
alluded to one chapter of it, well known to Egyptologists.
Gerald Massey.
Sir,—In Mr. Bonwick’s paper we read :—
“ All the ordinary opinions of modern Spiritualists were recognised
in Egypt. Spirits hovered about the mummied body; spirits in¬
fluenced, and even possessed the living ; spirits could be called or
driven forth by mediums ; spirits foretold events, and wrought
wonderful deeds. At the same time it must be observed that the
Egyptians did not receive Demonology or Black Magic, so prominent
in old Chaldea and mediaeval countries, traceable to an African or a
Turanian source.”
It would be of great interest to all Spiritualists if the author of that
paper would be kind enough to quote the evidence for this assertion,
together with the authorities. Vague general statements are of no
avail, even though they may prove to be true; we want the proof.
Again, may I ask what we are to understand by these lines ?—
“Egyptians, like the moderns, indulged in speculation on such sub¬
jects, having no thought of the employment of experimental science to
determine the question of intellectual being.”
They certainly are meant to refer to spiritual existence ; but do they
also mean the Egyptians were not experimentalists—were not practical
evokers and students of Spiritualistic phenomena ?
Gerald Massey.
| A PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIENCE.
} | Sir,—I have a small psychological experience to record, on which
! I should be glad to have the judgment of those experienced
I Spiritualists and gifted minds who are alike contributors to and
j readers of your journal. It is connected with the almost dormant
i mediumship of my little daughter, the “Beatrice” who some years ago
i figured in your columns.
| It was about twilight on a summer’s evening uf this year, shortly
I i before I left my home to sooth the last days of my father’s earth-
) i life, that a gentleman, a friend of my husband’s, called to make a sad
I communication of his domestic unhappiness. I cannot relate my
) i story without disclosing the nature of that unhappiness, but as I
I i shall give no names, no one will be compromised. In my opinion,
I the experience I have to relate is not without a lesson; that lesson
(| I shall leave others to interpret. The gentleman who called on the
I evening to which I allude, desired, as did his wife, to have Beatrice
j | as a visitor and companion to his own daughter, and a visit had been
II arranged on which Beatrice and her sister Florence calculated with a
1 i little pleasure. On the evening to which I allude, the gentleman,
, | whom I will call Mr. S., presented himself with a face full of trouble,
d and ere long my husband, whose visitor I presumed him to be, called
I me into the room to share the recital of his sorrow, and give what
II advice and comfort I might be able. I then learnt that his wife had
11 for many years past been subject to violent fits of intemperance, that
[ | they were gradually becoming more frequent and dangerous, and
11 that, after a short absence, her husband had returned to find her
11 attacked by one of these fits in great fury, and completely mad for
| the time through the effects of alcoholic drinks. The poor man, who
) i was overwhelmed by his great trouble, informed us that he felt he
ft could preserve his great sorrow no longer a secret, that he had
[ | struggled long with it, hoping to induce reformation, but that hope
\ i having left him, he was determined to remove his one daughter, and
1! break up a home made desolate.
I cannot describe the mingled feelings of pity and horror with
which I heard this sorrowful relation. Only a fortnight before I had
seen the poor lady, now a victim to the demon of drink, well, happy,
and gentle; she was described now as furious, dangerous, utterly
degraded.
I have always, from early childhood, felt more horror and depression
i at the contemplation of this special vice of our nation than in viewing
mentally any of the other frailties and imperfections of humanity. I
I have never been able to endure the proximity of an inebriate person
j without disgust, and no sin that flesh is heir to has seemed to me so
pregnant with ruin, so devastating in its effects on body and soul, so
wide-reaching in its consequences as this vice, or as it is often called
I “ disease ” of intemperance.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
233
Nov. 15, 1878.
I retired to rest with my child Beatrice that night, with a heart very j J
heavily burdened, for this tale of drunkenness was not the only one on [ j
which I had recently been called to reflect. "Whilst it was yet the dark j
hours of the summer night I was awoke by Beatrice clinging in a ter- j
rifled manner to me, and asking, in tones full of dread, “ if I thought I
the morning would soon come? ” I asked her “ why.” She answered, j
“ O, mamma, I have seen such a dreadful spirit; what can have brought j
her to us ; have you any brandy in your room ? ” , j
I answered that “ not only had I none in the room, but that there j
was none in the house.” The child then related the appearance, in a j I
sort of dream, of a disturbed, vindictive, and most malignant looking ! j
female spirit in a grovelling position, a bottle of brandy near her, also i,
the appearance of another spirit, more agreeable looking, who stated, as i1
it were in explanation, that the disturbed one was brought by the use of i j
brandy. I\
After hearing this relation from my child I soothed her terror, and j1
mutely prayed that all dark influences might leave her. I also betook !'
myself to marvelling by what singular and (to me) unknown law she |
had dreamed this dream, or seen this vision, whilst my mind was dis- ^
turbed by the subject of drink. I wondered if my thoughts had brought |
her the vision by mental sympathy, and felt condemned for not banish- j
ing such dreary subjects whilst so near her. While thus speculating on |
the cause of the vision Beatrice answered my unuttered thoughts thus: |
“ 0, mamma, that spirit is not in our house; it cannot come here; it is
in Mr. S ’s house, and I must not visit them. I seem to have
been taken to see it to show me this.” As soon as these words were j
uttered, all the shadow of sin and sorrow which for an instant had fallen j
on her spirit seemed to leave Beatrice, and she fell into a refreshing j
sleep after delivering this last message. I am quite certain that no
one was cognisant of the circumstances made known to myself and hus¬
band by Mr. S in reference to his domestic sorrow. It was about
the children’s hour of retiring when he took his leave, and his story j
was told with closed doors and in a whisper.
The question I would like to ask of those who are versed in psychology j
is this. Could a train of dreary thought in my mind so influence a medium, |
or is it more probable that this vision was sent as a lesson ? The spirit
seen is the tempter of that unhappy lady, and my child was permitted to
see her for an instant as a lesson to me to be conveyed to others,
and induce me to avoid the influences in a certain house on her
account. E. L. Thompson Nosworthy.
Leeds.  
THE WILLIAMS-KITA CASE.
To the Public in general, and St. George Stock in particular.
I have read with some amusement and much sorrow the words of
your various correspondents, who seem, many of them, to fail in finding
words enough to vent their spite upon me. Perhaps the most offensive
letter that has appeared since your editorial is the one signed
“St. George Stock,” who is most profuse in his thanks to the Dutch
people for unmasking an imposture which “he and many others have
been fully convinced of,” and which he endeavours to gloss over by
saying that he “ charitably ” thought the medium a passive instrument.
I have only one reply to make to both public and private critics—that
I know nothing of the things, or how they came there, and solemnly
declare, before God and man, that I am innocent; but there are twelve
against one. I however submit the following as a reply to recent
correspondents.
Mr. Stock says that it befits the Association to take the matter up;
but if so, it should be taken up with the idea of finding the whole truth,
rather than to prove the fraud. It is rather late in the day, however,
for the Association to take up the question of my mediumship, when all
during last season I was giving stances before the Research Committee,
which were reported as proof conclusive. I have never objected to a
single condition at any stance I have ever given, except at Amsterdam,
when I did object to being knocked down by eight, or twelve, or more
persons—which ? Under, then, the most strict conditions that the
Association could devise, my guides have been able to produce mani¬
festations, as published accounts prove, oftentimes to my own surprise ;
therefore, I never had tbe slightest inducement to cheat, and especially
at a seance where I was only invited in a non-professional way.
I am asked to “ confess how all my tricks are done.” I have
received many offers of the same kind outside of Spiritualism, by
persons perhaps in a higher position than St. George Stock, but I never
accepted their tempting proposals, simply because I had nothing to
confess. As the Dutchmen claim to be so proficient in this matter,
they may be able to give Mr. Stock the knowledge he desires, and take
their payment in thanks, as I have done from many who desired to
witness my manifestations. It is very charitable now for Mr. Stock to
say that when he held me in the cabinet, and the form appeared, it must
have been some one else he was holding. Who was it that played the
part of medium or spirit in the recent weighing experiments ? What
chance has a medium to demonstrate his power when he accedes to every
request, even to being held, and then, when the first adverse wind comes,
to have those who have been his pretended supports turn round and
doubt the very tests they themselves imposed and declared at the time
to be conclusive. If I were to consent to go through the same category
of tests again, would not the next attack find me, as it has now, among
an army of doubters, whose faith in their own senses and judgment had
taken to itself “ wings and flown away % ” but, thank God, there are
still hundreds of noble-minded ladies and gentlemen who prefer believing
the evidence of their own senses to what any number of unknown people
may affirm.
So far as the Association is concerned, one would think that my fate
hung upon its verdict, and that all my future usefulness was to be made
or marred by its decision. Such is not the case. My position as a
medium was made long before the Association was ever thought of, and
the larger amount of my patronage has been outside the Association, and
with people of high position who never heard of its existence. I felt
that the Association was quite as much under obligation to me as I to
it. I have never received more than half my usual fee for seances, and
in the season have often declined two seances in an evening, that I might
keep my engagement with them; for which I received half the fee of
one, and the present amount of personal abuse thrown in. If the Asso¬
ciation can do without me, I can certainly do without it; and I can but
feel that in this course I shall receive the support of my friends.
In the last number of The Spiritualist I also see a letter from Riko,
the secretary pro tern, for the Dutch. But who is Mr. A. J. Riko, that
he presumes to attack me concerning a seance at which he was not
present ? He is the same spiritual brother who stated to a friend of
mine, when he (Riko) was in London, that he “ disliked me, and that I
should do little good at the Hague.” In his letter he says—“ The only
question is, whether I cheated at Amsterdam ?,r No matter what of the
past, nor how spotless the record, nor how satisfactory tbe tests of the
future may be, “other sittings are out of court.” And this is called
“ calm logic.” I confess I do not see it. Every man accused brings
his past record to prove the falsity of the charge. I do the same ; and
I contend that the record of the past must stand with all thinking
people. The evidence presented is only circumstantial evidence thus
far; but, as there are “many more items not yet in,” perhaps we had
better wait until the whole case is presented before judgment is pro¬
nounced. I, too, ask the question, Did the spirits bring in the drapery?
and when the question is truthfully answered the responsibility will rest
upon other shoulders than mine.
I know the genuineness of my mediumship; and on the truth and
strength of those who guide me I rely, who were never nearer me than
at present, and who answer me, that—
Ever the truth comes uppermost,
And ever is justice done.
Yours in the work, Charles E. Williams.
i | Sir,—As in your issue of last week another insinuation appeared that
| j the Dutch were conspirators in the affair in question, which insinua-
j tions do no honour to the character of the inventors, I think you will
I not refuse a place for the simple statement that all the gentlemen pre-
) j sent at the Amsterdam seance, without one exception, signed the report.
! The ladies who, when the fighting began, left the room or fainted, were
j I not invited to sign, they not being also direct eyewitnesses, of the search-
) | ing. The Dutch like solidity and honesty in their reports, and it shows
| a prejudiced mind to try in every possible way to whitewash the guilty,
j who is impudent enough to deny flatly everything against the pointed
| evidence of all the honourable witnesses. I repeat, if all the evidence
| were published no honest Spiritualist would hesitate to share the con-
| elusion of the Dutch, and I am seriously thinking of publishing a small
i pamphlet about the affair, chiefly because Williams goes on to write
j furious and nonsensical letters, the last specimen of which I (like his
I former epistles) at once submitted to the president of the committee,
j It is high time our cause underwent a purifying process. A celebrated
i savant said, “ Show me a man’s letters, and I’ll tell you what he is.”
Well, it may be that I shall help the English brethren later on to a
better knowledge of certain individuals. It is easy to see which side is
right. A. J. Riko.
A DREAM OF A DEAD FACE.
Dizzy with ocean's roar
I wandered by the shore
Where sullen, heaving waters rose and fell;
When on the wave’s green edge,
Swift o’er the sandy ledge,
Up to my feet there rolled a delicate shell—
A pale pink shell, dashed with the ocean’s dews,
And painted fair with morn’s diviuest hues.
So beautiful it lay
In the last light of day,
Close to its pinky cells I held my ear.
The hollow murmur stole
Into my troubled soul.
“ Tell me,” I cried, with rivalling hopes and fear,
“ Oh shell! that moanest by the lonely shore,
Where are the friends who come to us no more ? ”
The passionate question died
Along the ocean side,
Spurned by disdaining waves to quick disgrace ;
When lo! a stream of light
j Dazzled my mortal sight ;
The pale pink shell became a pale pink face ;
And eyes I fondly knew, with light divine,
Smiled gentle memories as they looked in mine.
The murmur now which came
My restless soul to tame
Was music sweet of softly whispering lips :
“ Oh friend, complain no more !
Safe*on a happy shore
Rests the dear freight of all thy sunken ships.
. Whether these fretful waves recede or swell,
To us who dwell beyond them all is well! ”
Banner of Light.
Mr. T. N. Cathrall writes that a “Bethnal Green Association of
] Inquirers into Spiritualism ” has been formed for the purpose of aiding
| those who wish to investigate the subject. It holds its meetings on
[ I Sunday and Thursday evenings at 53, Warner-place, Hackney-road,
11 London.
234 THE SPIRI
THE CLAIMS OF PSYCHOLOGY TO A PLACE IN THE I
' CIRCLE OF THE SCIENCES.,!‘ |
BY EDWAKD W. COX, SEBJEANT-AT-LAW, PRESIDENT OF THE PSYCHOLOGICAL I (
SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN. ! {
Ladies and Gentlemen,—I propose to devote this Fourth |>
Sessional Address to a consideration of the claims of Psycho- i (
logy to a place in the circle of the sciences. j ?
THE POSITION OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AND THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL ) )
INSTITUTE IN RELATION TO PSYCHOLOGY. I \
That it has not yet received such a recognition is suffi- I (
ciently obvious. The conspicuous representative of the j j
science of the time is the British Association. This society, j (!
by its all-embracing title and by the formal admission into j j
its programme of more than one department that has not j | j
the most remote connection with physical science, practically j (j
asserts that no subject designed for the investigation, how- j j
ever remotely, of the laws of nature will be excluded from I
its platform.
Wherefore, then, is psychology rejected ? The answer of j j
the association is, in substance, this : ii Our business is only : I
with the tangible material universe. Psychology deals with | \ i
something that is immaterial, intangible—whose existence ! j
is not proved nor is capable of proof, and which, therefore, ||
is unknown and unknowable. Psychology has no foundation j \
of fact, and upon fact alone can a science be constructed.”
I dare to dispute the assertion and the argument. The j)
British Association does not preserve its own boundaries and I i
maintain its own definition. It admits political economy !
and education. It does not prohibit occasional wandering !
in the wide field of art. Speculations verging closely upon i
theology are permitted and even welcomed in presidential j j
addresses. Theories are not always scouted because they are I |
wild. A section is invited to discuss the best manner of j j
educating a human being; but investigation into the j |
existence, the nature, and the capacity of the mind to be so
taught, its relationship to the body, its past, its present, I
and its future is sternly prohibited, as not being a part of j
science; if any member dares to moot incidentally any j
question, however interesting and important, bearing upon i |
the mind or soul of man, he is instantly shouted down, and j j j
rules are made with express purpose to preven*t the intro- 11 j
duction of the subject in any shape. Psychology is not j !
merely refused admission into, it is positively scouted from, m
the British Association for the Advancement of Science!
Even more strange, illogical, and unphilosophical is the j
treatment of psychology by another society of lesser note.
Anthropology is the Greek name for the science of man. In
There is an Anthropological Institute, whose profession is | !
the pursuit and promotion of this science. It was after | j
many years of claim, advanced and rejected, that anthro¬
pology obtained for itself a place—even then grudgingly j j
granted—upon the platform of the British Association, j j
which had, from the beginning, established a department for j I
natural history. Think of this ! The associated scientists | (
of our time accepting a bug and rejecting a man 1
But what the British Association did to anthropology the 11
Anthropological Institute does to psychology. The British j
Association rejected the whole science of man. The Anthro- i 11
pological Institute rejects the science of that part of him j j
that makes him man. It gives long debates to the shape of I
his skull, not a word or a thought to the structure of his
mind! It listens to dull and learned essays upon the
barrows that preserve his bones, but it will not promote an
inquiry into the spirit that animated those relics, the mind j j
that moved those bones, nor if that handful of dust be all m
that really remains of a being whom high authority declares I j
to be immortal!
The study of man, omitting the mind and soul of man— | j i
anthropology without psychology—is surely the caricature ! j j
of a caricature—the play of Hamlet with the part of Hamlet j j
omitted by particular desire.
For anthropology should properly be divided into three I I
branches. First, human physiology, the structure of the j j
body of man. Secondly, psychology, the forces by which | j
the action of that structure are directed. Thirdly, ethnology, 111
the geographical distribution and history of the races of men. |) |
The society that omits either of these has no right to the \\\
 :  j) |
* The Presidential Address at the opening of the Fourth Session of the Psychological i 1 i
Society of Great Britain, Nov. 7th, 1878.
UAL 1ST. Nov. 15, 1878.
large title of “ Anthropologist.” It is ethnological merely.
There is, in truth, no anthropological society promoting
anthropology as the science of man—and of the whole man.
The example of these two societies has been followed, as
of course, by the outside world. Psychology is scouted.
Reports of discussions on psychological questions are b}'
the journals who profess to report refused a place among the
“ Proceedings of Scientific Societies ” expressly on the
ground that psychology has no pretension to be deemed a
science. If questioned why, the ready answer is, “ Your
province is with something the existence of which is not
proved—which indeed the greatest scientists among us
entirely deny. There can be no science in a thing that is
not. Therefore it is we refuse to give you a place among
the reports and records of the scientific societies of the time.
Hence it occurred to me that this fourth sessional address
could not be more usefully employed than in answering the
objectors, and setting forth the true claims of psychology,
not merely to be deemed a science, but to take a foremost
place as being one of the greatest and most important of
all the sciences.
THE PROVINOE OF PSYCHOLOGY.
The definition of psychology adopted by this society is
perfect. It expresses precisely, clearly, emphatically, and
truly what is designed by that title. My purpose this
evening is to set forth the subjects for research and discus¬
sion that are properly embraced by that definition. I re¬
peat it:—
Psychology is the science that investigates the forces by
which the mechanism of man is moved and directed.
It is essentially distinct from biology or the science of
life, with which it is often confused by the materialists.
Intelligent motion is not in any manner associated with the
motions that indicate the presence of “ life.” The province
of biology is to trace the difference between the things that
have life and the things that have not life; to determine
the points of difference and the laws that regulate the
beginning, the progress, and the end of life; to solve,
if it can, the problem whence life comes, and what it is.
The range of biology is sufficiently large and perfectly
definite, but by no stretch of definition could it be made to
include psychology.
The biologists having shown us what a living thing is ;
the physiologist having taught us the structure of that
living thing and the functions of its organs, whatever these
may be—the anthropologist, directing its attention to man,
having opened to us the history of man, as revealed in his
various tribes, his various works—manifestly not automatical,
but the product of some intelligence—there remains yet a
great and grand region to be explored. What is the intelli¬
gence that has directed the man described by the biologist,
the physiologist, and the anthropologist ? Unless that man
be merely a machine—an automaton—there must be some¬
thing within him or without him that intelligently directs
the motions of his mechanism to definite and intelligent
objects. The motions manifestly obey a power within the
man we call his will. What that force is, whence it comes,
how it works, what are its powers and capacities, the
mechanism, if any, through which it acts, and how the
direction is determined of the force that moves the mechanism
—here, indeed, is a vast region in the study of man for
which science has made no provision, but which nevertheless
is actually rejected by the British Association for the Ad¬
vancement of Science, and ignored by the Anthropological
Institute that professes the science of man, and by the
journals that call themselves the reporters of the sayings
and doings of all the sciences.
Perhaps to some minds the definition of psychology
which this society had ventured to advance, and for which
it challenges discussion by any who object to it, may appear
somewhat vague. “What is a force?” they may ask:
“ Is there anything moving us but muscular force, which
the chemists tell us is produced by the conflagration of the
muscle itself? What contracts the muscle? The nerves.
What sets the nerves in action? The brain. Nothing
can be more simple and obvious. The brain wills, the
nerve carries the command, the muscle obeys and con¬
tracts, as ordered, and the limb moves in the desired
direction. The mechanism is perfect, and so is this ex-
Nov. 15, 1878.
THE SFIftITUALlSl\
235
planation of it. What need to go beyond it for something
we cannot see, hear, or touch ? Why perplex the mind
with questions incapable of solution and conjectures you
cannot resolve into certainties ? Be content with physiology,
which will teach you all about form and function. Be
satisfied with our happy conclusion that mind is a secretion
from brain, and soul a myth—a fancy—the invention of
priestcraft, the paradise of fools.”
Such are the objections raised to the recognition of
psychology as a science, and from the standpoint of
materialism they are very powerful. Psychology, on the
other hand, asserts emphatically that mind is something
more than a brain secretion, and that evidence can be
adduced of the existence of soul (meaning by this term—
the conscious self—the I—the You) as a definite and dis¬
tinct entity, of which the bodily structure is only the
mechanism, by means of which the communication is
maintained between itself and the material world in which
it dwells; the molecular structure being probably nothing
more than an incrustation of the non-molecular self,
crystallised, as it were, about it in healthy life, dropping
slowly from it in disease, and parting wholly from it in
death.
This is a theory—and only as such is it advanced. Nothing
more than theory is possible in the present imperfect condi¬
tion of our knowledge. We want more facts before we can
dare to dogmatise. It is the end and aim of psychology
to make search for those facts. The scientists choose to
affirm that, mind and soul being myths, inquiry relating to
them is folly.
At this starting point of our science we join issue with the
materialists. We affirm with absolute confidence that there
are facts and phenomena, innumerable and indisputable,
that point directly to the existence of mind and soul, as the
only probable solution of them—phenomena wholly inex¬
plicable by and entirely inconsistent with any theory of
materialism—phenomena which point directly to the conclu¬
sion that intelligence is not molecular nor a condition of
molecules—that consciousness is not merely a function of
matter ; but that the thing, whatever it be, we call the soul
or mind, is an entity quite other than the thing we call the
body!
Mark, now, how wide a range there is for investigation and
deduction by physiology, and then say if it has not a title to
be a science—and a very noble science.
LIFE AHD MIND.
At its foundation is life. What is life ? What marks the
distinction between the living thing and the thing that has
no life ? Are they specifically different, or do they pass one
into the other ? According to the Darwinian theory of
evolution, when did life begin, and how was it evolved ? Or
is the universe a huge living whole, its parts taking the
various forms of life according to the conditions under which
the development occurs ? In man what is the beginning of
life? What are its functions? What relationship has it
to the other forces that control the mechanism ? From what
source is the vital force fed ? why does it fail ? and how does
it cease ?
Then for mind. What do we intend by the term ? Is
mind identical with soul ? Is it distinct from soul ? Is it
an entity ? Or is it, as I venture to contend, the collective
name given to the actions by which the soul expresses itself
upon the external world through the mechanism of the
brain and nerve system. Thus viewed, the mind is not a
whole, but composed of parts, each part having a distinct
function. It is not a thing itself, but the action of some
other thing—or rather a name for the collective functions of
that other thing—which thing is the entity, the being, the
thing, that is conscious of its own unity, of its own identify,
of its own distinct existence in a definite form ; in brief, the
I that is conscious of the independent personal being of
you.
• What a field for psychology is hero ! The relationship of
brain to mind—the functions of that organ, the mental
faculties, their operation individually and in combination,
the mind in health and in disease, the influences of the
mind over the body and of the body over the mind—these
are but a few of the vocations of psychology.
Then comes the great question of the duality of the
mind. We have two brains—have we two minds ? Is each
mental faculty enjoyed in duplicate—so that there may be
paralysis of one half the mind, as of one half of the body,
with all the curious problems that grow out of such a con¬
dition, and the light which, if it be true, it must cast upon
many mental phenomena otherwise inexplicable.
Next comes the question upon which ancient and modern
mental philosophers are at issue—Does the whole mind act in
every mental operation, or only specific parts of the mental
mechanism; that is to say, are the process of reasoning, the
emotion of anger, the sentiment of hope, the product of the
whole mind, or has each its special mechanism in the brain ?
A vast multitude of facts have been already gathered together,
throwing light upon this question. But more are wanted,
for the metaphysics that have been for ages accepted by
mankind as knowledge can be banished only by an over¬
whelming array of facts that will force assent upon all
minds not closed against conviction by prepossession and
dominant idea.
If the conclusion be that the mechanism of the mind is
structured of parts, each part having a distinct and definite
function, then comes the no less important but more diffi¬
cult inquiry, what are those mental faculties ? These can
be learned only by long and accurate observation of the
minds of many men as exhibited in their actions, and some¬
thing will be gathered from self-examination. Those
faculties found—and they are undoubtedly many—do they
admit of any and what classification ? Psychology must
inquire if there is any, and what specific differences_between
them? Are intellect and emotion identical? Do the
various faculties exhibit their simultaneous presence or
absence in the same person? Are not some possessed of
great reasoning capacity and no passions ? Are not others
found to be strong in passion and frail in intellect ?
And if there are many mental faculties, an inquiry almost
more interesting than any for the psychologist will be what
relationship they bear to each other—in what manner they
combine to produce the infinite varieties of character in man,
whether viewed as individuals or as belonging to some race
of man. This involves not merely the closest observation of
character, but the most skilful analysis of it. It is the un¬
failing charm of this study of man that it may be best pur¬
sued, not in the solitude of the chamber, but in the busiest
haunts of society—wherever men most do congregate. In
this the psychologist possesses a perennial source of enjoy¬
ment. Here he finds active employment for all his own
faculties, and it is a study of which he never wearies.
Think for a moment how vast is the region psychology
opens to the intelligent mind. Nor is any profound
knowledge of it necessary to its enjoyment. Every step the
student takes is fraught with interesting and attractive objects.
In trivial as in the most important sayings and doings of
those about him he recognises a meaning and finds a lesson
of value. He asks himself what structure of mind prompted
this act, or inspired that speech or writing ? The presence of
what faculties do 1 trace here ? What group of them has
combined to create such and such a character ? He cannot
read history, or drama, or fiction without finding in it
abundant material for practical application of the principles
of his science, and ample food for thought. The personages
of fiction serve to him as illustrations.
To analyse any one character of Shakespeare is a psycho¬
logical study, and no better exercise than this could the
student set before him.
The effects of disease upon this mental mechanism—its
action under abnormal conditions—constitute a new and
wide field for examination. Among them the psychologist
must investigate the phenomena of sleep and dream, of
insanity, of somnambulism in its natural or in its induced
condition, the mystery of mental sympathy and communion,
and that curious consequence of the double brain and
double mental mechanism, the action of one without the
other, or the action of both in divergent directions, but
unconsciously to the individual, whose attention is engrossed
in receiving the impressions of the brain that is most active
at the moment.
Not less within the province of psychology are the pheno¬
mena of memory and recollection. What are they? What
is the process that stamps the passing impression upon the
236
THE SPIRITUALIST.
tfov. 15,1878,
everchanging brain, and so preserves it that it can be re¬
produced long years afterwards ? This mystery of memory,
and the still more marvellous process of recollection, are
problems which it is the proper province of psychology to
solve or attempt to solve.
All this vast field of knowledge relating to the individual
man claims to be explored by the psychologist. But his
science has a work even beyond this. It searches into the
history of the past, as presently we shall see that it projects
itself into the future. Was man always what he is now ?
Is the Darwinian theory true, that he is the lineal descendant
of a mollusc, grown to be what he is by a slow process of
evolution continued through aeons of years, under the action
of the universal law of the survival of the fittest, being thus
gradually adapted to the ever-changing conditions of the
world he had inhabited ? If his corporeal mechanism grew
to be thus, how and where did mind come to him ? Mr.
Herbert Spencer, with admirable ingenuity, has sought to
apply the Darwinian theory of the evolution of the body of
man to the development of his mind. He has directed
extraordinary labour to the collection of facts in the history
of man, from which he hopes to deduce conclusive evidence
that intelligence also has been evolved. He does succeed,
to some extent, in tracing the gradual growth of brain
structure; he shows how one mental faculty might be the
outcome of another or others ; and in the survivals of
manners and customs he finds traces of time when they had
a real life and meaning, but which, although their uses are
outgrown, linger still in habits that have quite lost their
meaning now.
Turning from the past to the future, a new region opens
to psychology. What man was, what he is, suggests at once
the question, What will he be? Without raising for the
moment the much-disputed question, if there is for him a
life after the dissolution of his body, the psychologist
encounters the too-neglected question of heredity. To what
extent does the child resemble the parent? Is mind in¬
herited ? If so, is it, as the popular belief is, derived from
his mother ? Why sometimes are there resemblances to both
parents; sometimes to one only; sometimes to neither ?
Again—What causes a likeness to some remote ancestor to
crop out suddenly in a far following generation, or why
should only one feature be preserved, as in some families,
the single surviving index of their race ? These and a
hundred other queries, of equal interest and importance, it is
the proper province of psychology to answer, or endeavour to
do so—not by theorising merely, but by observation and
collection of facts.
PSYCHOLOGY AND MATERIALISM.
Lastly comes the question, greatest of all, is the mechanism
of man constructed of anything other than the body we see
and the brain we dissect ? Is that brain the ultimate in¬
telligence ? Are all our inspirations and aspirations merely
secretions from that wonderful pulp ? Is consciousness of
individuality, of unity, of being ourselves, nothing more
than a succession of molecular conditions which we mistake
for identity ? Although, let me say it here, it is difficult to
understand how any succession of independent actions could
cause consciousness, I ask again, as I have asked before,
What is the thing that i& conscious of the molecular action
that by no stretch of imagination can be conceived to be
conscious of itself. This is the true battlefield between
Materialism and Psychology, and here the main fight must
be fought. Psychology says, “ We see in this consciousness
the existence of something that is conscious—conscious of
itself, conscious of the external world—itself always, what¬
ever irregularity attends the action of the molecular
mechanism. This something that is not the body, psychology
supposes to be an entity, and that entity is the true man.
We call it soul for lack of a better name, but we attach to
this name no foregone conclusions of its structure, its
faculties, its capacities—nor even of necessity for existence
after the dissolution of the body. At this point we affirm
only that the thing we call soul exists—but what it is, what
it does, what it can do, where it is at present, what it is to
be in the future, are questions for psychology to answer, as
they can only be satisfactorily answered, by extensive and
accurate observation of psychic phenomena.”
Materialism replies to this, that there are no such phe-
i i nomena, and that there is absolutely no evidence of the
j i being of soul—that it is purely mythical—that it is imper-
I | ceptible by any sense—that it cannot even be imagined—that
| it is not only unknown but unknowable.
Here, also, psychology challenges materialism to the test.
| | There are facts and phenomena, neither few nor rare, that
! | may be found by all who make honest search for them, and
I for which they have not to wander far afield, but may see in
| their own homes among their own families, nay, in their
! | own personal experiences. These facts and phenomena, we
| I say, materialism can by no stretch of ingenuity explain, nor
j 11 even rationally account for. Only by the existence of some-
! | thing forming a part of the mechanism of man—something
| ! non-molecular, and therefore imperceptible to the human
j j senses, that are constructed to perceive only the part of
| ] creation which is composed of the particular combination of
| j. atoms that makes molecules—which are the ultimate
| | particles to a man’s perception, but certainly not the ultimate
| | atoms, which doubtless compose an infinite number of other
I | forms of being not perceptible to us because non-molecular.
PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
It will be enough to refer to some classes of these
j (I phenomena to show on what a vast foundation of facts
i | psychology may be securely based, and to prove that it is
111 not the shadowy pseudo-science that it is called. Behold,
| j | first, that most abundant class of the phenomena — the
| mystery of dream—which only does not amaze us because
j j it is so familiar, but which, if it occurred but rarely, and
| |- with a few persons only, would excite either wonder or
j ! contempt. There is not a person in this room who, if
| I dream was not as rare as clairvoyance, would not be de-
II nounced as an impostor, and prosecuted as a rogue and a
I | vagabond, for having asserted that when he was asleep he
| | beheld the most marvellous visions, conversed with the dead,
j j walked upon water, visited remote places. All of us do
! | this nightly, and we are only not deemed to be the victims
i j of a diluted insanity, because none can accuse another with-
i out condemning himself. But viewed with scientific eye,
| | what a marvel is dream! What new light would not the
| j investigation of its phenomena cast upon the structure of
| | mind and the being of soul!
The phenomena of delirium and insanity are no less
11 fraught with instruction for the psychologist. It is not in
| | the normal conditions of the mechanism, when the whole is
] I working smoothly, that the hidden parts of any machine can
| | be discovered. It is when the wheels are disordered, its
111 parts thrown out of gear, that we learn its structure and
| j the uses and functions of each part of it. So with the
j (! mechanism of man. The physiologist and the physician
111 can best learn the functions of the various parts of tho
| j body from observation of their disordered action in disease,
i | Insanity shows us what the mental faculties are, by showing
j | us the consequences of paralysis or disorder of any one or
111 more of them.
More curious still are the phenomena of somnambulism—
| | that strange condition in which the senses are sealed or
111 their communication with the conscious self suspended,
| I and we are enabled to witness the phenomenon of the mind
! (| receiving its impressions of the external world through some
II i other medium than the nerve system. Psychology has not
| | yet determined what is that substituted medium, but the
II | almost certain conclusion is that the self, or soul, severed
I > | from its ordinary channel of communication with the
11 external world through the mechanism of the senses, per-
j |! ceives by some such perceptive power as it may be sup-
! | posed to possess, if the body were to fall from it, and it
| | should have a new existence under new conditions. For-
i I tunately for science, the state of somnambulism—a rare
11 natural product—may be produced artificially, not with a
11 few but with a great number of persons ; and not among
( | strangers, but in almost every family. If any person can
III examine these phenomena without having his faith in
| j materialism shaken, he must be prepossessed indeed—a
11 veritable victim of a dominant idea I
Then come the phenomena of mental sympathy and com-
11 munion, of which so many interesting cases have been re-
j (j ported to the society, and of which we hope to be favoured
Nov. 15, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
with many more. The first question as to this is, if it be j
effected by transmission of mechanical motion from the !
fibres of one brain to the fibres of another brain, as harp j
strings vibrate in unison, or if it be a capacity of the con- |
scious self or soul, in certain conditions of the mechanism of |
the body, to communicate by some non-sensual medium ! j
with other souls subject to the same condition with itself ?
Lastly, we have the multitude of phenomena that have j
been called psychic by those who object to a name that !
embodies a “ foregone conclusion,” preferring to wait the i
results of a larger experience and more accurate experiment \
before they venture dogmatically to assert the source of j (
these phenomena. This caution is the more necessary, as |
undoubtedly the conditions requisite to the production of the |
phenomena are such as almost to tempt to fraud. As the !
consequences of such temptation, offered by the neglect of j
inquirers to apply reasonable tests, the most impudent im- j
postures have been practised, and will assuredly be repeated j
so long as phenomena, which are the proper subjects of I
science, are made to minister to the credulity of the super- i j
stitious, to gratify a merely gaping curiosity, or to amuse the j
vacuous and the idle. It will be impossible to accept the j
psychic phenomena as proved for any uses of science until j
they have been subjected to the serious and laborious investi- j
gation of men who come to them with single-minded purpose |
to learn what truth is in them, for truth’s sake, and for the j
sake of science; who will view them with eyes coloured by I
no prejudice nor prepossession; who will insist upon the j
strictest tests they can devise, and accept nothing as proved |
that is not secured by such tests, and then only after repeated j
experiments under various conditions. If such a course had i |
been adopted from the beginning, opportunity would not j
have been given for the manifold a exposures ” of frauds i
that have done so much to discredit even the proved facts, j
Science is indebted to those who have had the courage not I
merely to seize the pretended spirit and exhibit him in solid j
flesh to the deluded company, but to proclaim to the whole j
world a discovery that brings to themselves some amount of j
discredit. If, at the first, reasonable tests had been insisted j
upon, and precautions taken such as common sense would |
dictate, the most prevalent form of fraud could not have |
grown to the proportions which it has assumed, in spite of
the protests of all sensible observers against the prohibition
of the most ordinary precautions for protection from im¬
posture.
But if more caution in the future is taught by these
catastrophes science will profit greatly by them. Psycho¬
logy desires to be informed what phenomena are proved by
sufficient evidence to be real—what are still doubtful, what
are fanciful merely, what are impostures. That all the tens
of thousands of alleged phenomena witnessed in all parts of
the world, and attested by experienced observers, should be
illusions or delusions, would be a fact even more marvellous
than the greatest marvel among the phenomena themselves.
It seems to be forgotten that if but one of the multitude be
true, that one proved fact must be the foundation of a new
science, for that solitary fact establishes the existence of a
force hitherto unrecognised—a force differing from all the
forces as yet known to science in this, that it is an intelli¬
gent force.
One of these phenomena established as a fact, how vast
and new a field is thus opened to the researches of psychology!
Whence comes this force ? It is developed only in the
presence or near neighbourhood of some human being,
endowed with a special nerve organisation. At once the
question arises, Does the force proceed from him without
whom it is not exhibited? This force operates without
muscular contact. Then we face the problem of “ action at
a distance.” At this moment our philosophers are in con¬
flict, if such a thing can be. But here it is. If it proceeds
from the psychic, it certainly does not come from his
muscles—whence comes it then ? If not from his corporeal
frame, it must be some other entity that is in him. What
is that entity ? It can only be that entity wo call his soul
—that is to say, the conscious self.
But say that the force is not in him, but outside of him—
that it is not his force, but the force of some other being—
even then but two conclusions are open to us.
If the force be, certain it is that there is some intelligent
237
actor determining its direction. That intelligent actor can
only be the soul of the psychic, or some independent invisible
being. If the former, the existence of soul is proved. If the
latter, that actor must either be the disembodied soul of
some dead person or some creature, invisible and impalpable
to us, inhabiting the world with us, and, in certain unknown
conditions, enabled so far to become palpable to our senses
as to play the pranks—for the most part the unmeaning and
unworthy pranks—that nevertheless are played—as will be
admitted by any person who has honestly and laboriously
investigated the phenomena.
Here are a series of problems the solution of which is
eminently within the proper province of psychology. If that
province embraced nothing more than this, her claim to
admission into the circle of the sciences would be unanswer¬
able, and such, indeed, as few of the recognised sciences could
advance on their own behalf.
It must be admitted that, if after painstaking investiga¬
tion the conclusion should be that the phenomena called
psychic, when imposture is eliminated, are the work of some
class of invisible beings inhabiting this earth with us,
there will not be the same conclusive proof of the being of
soul, with a life not limited to the life of the body. But
happily our prospect of futurity does not depend upon the
truth or the explanation of psychic phenomena alone. All
the other abnormal conditions of the mechanism of man, to
which I have directed your attention as coming within the
province of psychology, point more or less to the conclusion
that soul is a reality, and some of them admit of no other
rational explanation.
I trust now to have shown, to the satisfaction at least of
all who hear me, and as I hope it will prove hereafter, to
the equal satisfaction of those who may honour me by read¬
ing this address, that psychology is not a sham, but a very
real science ; that it has a vast province—far wider, indeed,
than may have been imagined by those who have not
devoted to it much time and thought. I trust that I have
amply vindicated its claims to be admitted into the circle of
the sciences—to be welcomed at the British Association,
and to be made a branch of any study of anthropology
worthy of the name. This society, speaking by the voice of
its president, puts forward this programme of its purposes,
of the many great subjects it comprises, of their vast
!; importance to humanity, of the profound interest that
attaches to them and its ambition to enlist for them, not the
j sympathies merely, but the active co-operation, of all who
| take an interest in the general objects of its constitution—
) | the investigation of mind and soul, or of any one of its
| many departments. The pursuit of psychology is certainly
\ I as elevating as that of materialism is degrading. The eyes
11 of the materialists are fixed upon the earth. Psychology
(j at least looks up to the heaven. The regards of materialism
) | are only for the present; psychology has a future.
This society was a bold, but a successful, experiment to
) i combat the great and growing power of materialism, not,
11 as hitherto, by metaphysical abstractions, but with its own
11 weapons. “ Argue and dogmatise as much as you please,”
) | said the physicists, “ modern Science repudiates such
(j methods for the pursuit of truth. We demand from you
proofs sustained by evidence; realities, not fictions ; facts,
I not dogmas; things, not dreams and desires. Until you
11 produce such credentials, we cannot recognise you as
\ \ scientists or psychology in a science.” The society ad-
) | mitted the validity of the objection, accepted the challenge,
|! and is prepared to fight them with facts, phenomena, proofs,
! realities, things. What it has already done—the subjects
\ \ it has already examined—the facts it has already collected,
j do therefore entitle it to the formal recognition it claims,
j! Many attempts have been made, and still will be made,
11 to discredit it by imputing to it objects other than its
| ostensible one. We entirely and indignantly repudiate any
! such design. We are embodied for the sole object ex-
|! pressed in our prospectus—“ the investigation of the forces
by which the mechanism of man is moved and directed.”
We have never departed, and do not intend to depart, from
this public profession of our purpose. We have carefully
observed it in all our papers and debates. Many of the
subjects comprised in the wide range of great themes, of
which I have in this address feebly attempted to present
the merest outline, have been treated of in this room, and
others of them will engage our attention during the present
session. It would, of course, he impossible to single one
class of phenomena from out the multitude that belong to
psychology, and because it chances to be unpopular, refuse
to subject it to the same scientific examination as we give
to the rest. It would be at once cowardly and unwise to
decline to view it, and prove it, and try what worth and
truth there is in it. Nor, as Mr. Gladstone contends, is it
sufficient cause for turning away from so much as may be
true because charlatans have traded upon credulity, and
imposture has thronged around it. The plain duty of
psychologists is to investigate, with express purpose to
eliminate fraud and falsehood, and to possess itself of the
residuum of that truth which is proverbially said to lie at
the bottom of the well. In this sense only has it been
received, and so only has it been treated.
THE OBJECTS AHD NAME OF THE PS TCHOLOGICAL SOCIETT.
And here let me throw out a suggestion. There has
been, and in spite of experience there still is, much mis¬
understanding of the true objects of this society. No
small portion of the disadvantage under which it thus
labours has been the consequence of an adoption of its
title by a considerable number of associations in London
and the provinces who really do what we are supposed to
do, that is to say, under the wide name of psychology
conceal a very limited purpose. All or almost all of the
numerous psychological societies that have sprung up
since the formation of this, do in fact limit their labours
to the phenomena they call spiritual phenomena, which, if
admitting of one explanation, would not be psychological,
and in any case can present nothing more than one small
section of the large range of phenomena which psychology
embraces. This incorrect use of a general title for a par¬
ticular purpose has doubtless led to a public impression
that our aims are only theirs, and that, although we call
ourselves students of psychology, we are merely curiosity-
mongers. To remove this misapprehension, which operates
against us to no inconsiderable extent, and to make our
true design and character plain to all, without liability to
the confusion resulting from the like name being adopted
with quite different purposes, I would respectfully suggest
to the members a slight change in our name. The term
“ psychology ” is now unfairly used, and too often abused.
Let us substitute the term “ pneumatology.” It is correct
etymologically, logically, and scientifically, although not
as familiar. Its meaning is the same, but it has the great
recommendation of not being as yet misapplied and mis¬
appropriated. The Pneumatological Society of Great
Britain sounds as well and looks as well, and it is free from
the cloud of prejudice that has not unnaturally gathered
about the term psychology by reason of the many misuses
of it.
That there is a growing interest in the great questions
embraced by this society is proved by the excellent audi¬
ences gathered in this room—larger, let me say, than those
usually present at any scientific society in London, the
Geographical only excepted. Another proof of the spread
of the taste for psychological research and desire for know¬
ledge of its principles is found in the establishment of no
less than three Quarterly Reviews devoted to different
branches of it. Mind is almost wholly metaphysical,
giving comparatively little attention to facts; and, there¬
fore, I regret to observe, it does little for the extension of our
knowledge of mind. Brain is a more practical periodi¬
cal. It professes, as its name implies, to deal with the
material mechanism of mind, and to the extent of its
limited scheme it will do good service to psychological
science. But here also there is an unfortunate lack of
records of the facts and phenomena attendant upon the
various abnormal conditions of the brain and nerve system,
wanting which as a basis, real progress in psychological
science must needs be slow, for its theories, however
ingenious, can be little other than conjecture and specu¬
lation. The Psychological Review, the latest in the field,
promises to be the most useful. But here again the
range of topics is somewhat too limited, and the most
important of the material required in such a work—a col-
1878.
lection of reports of facts and phenomena, without note
or comment, such as are given by the medical journals of
medical cases — is still wanting. But the experiment
is yet young, and improvements may be anticipated with
age, experience, and success.
In conclusion, I can only repeat what I have so often
urged from this chair. All physical science must be based
upon facts. Facts can be proved only by evidence. The
witnesses must be weighed as well as counted. If the
information comes from one sense only, it should be mis¬
trusted until it is confirmed by repeated observation under
various conditions. If more senses than one give the same
information, the value of such evidence increases in arith¬
metical ratio, because of the improbability of so many
deceptions at the same moment. If there are two trust¬
worthy witnesses, and both have the same perceptions at
| [ | the same time, the testimony is more cogent still; but if
| i more than two, then the probability of truth is over-
| I whelming.
THE ATTRACTIVENESS OF THE STUDY OF PSYCHOLOGY.
A fact cannot be combated by an argument. It is an
I ! answer to any amount of ingenious logic to prove that the
| | fact cannot be, to show that it is. A fact may be howled
| ! down by ignorance, “ put down ” by authority, written
j | down by dogmatism, suppressed by the newspapers, but it
I J cannot be killed, for a fact is immortal. It will assuredly
I I survive all its opponents. As it was yesterday, so it is to
| ! day, and so it will be to-morrow. Closing to it our own
| | eyes or the eyes of others will not banish it; no persecu-
| tion can destroy it; no law, nor authority, can make it
| | not to be.
| j And as it has been in the past, so it is now and so per-
| j haps it will ever be. Vanity, and too often more practical
| j interests, are naturally enlisted against the reception of
] j new truths that threaten to disturb old theories, and shake
| | established reputations. It is the common weakness of
| ! human nature, from which scientists are not more free
jj| than others. This is the true obstacle to the admission of
I I psychology into the recognised circle of the sciences. It
I ! must be confessed that it does seriously shake the supre-
! | macy of materialism and threaten the fame of eminent
| | materialists. It must, therefore, look for hostility. But
111 courage and perseverance will subdue prejudice and con-
j > J quer opposition as it has done so often before. Materialism
! ! looks formidable now because it has so many eloquent
j 11 and able supporters. But we believe it to be destined to
j I fall before the nobler teachings of psychology, going forth
| as now it does, armed, not with metaphysical abstractions,
| which only beat the air, but with the substantial and
> | formidable weapon of fact. Let us remember that one fact,
| however small, will suffice to load the sling that will bring
! the giant to the earth. It is the business of this society
j 1 to search among the phenomena of their science not for
(j one only, but a whole armoury of such facts, each a death
| | to materialism. Be assured you will find them, if you will
| only look for them with zeal, with patience, with per-
II severance, with caution, and with care.
j But psychology offers to those who pursue it in the
| large and liberal spirit which I have ventured to commend
< | to your favour, a yet higher and holier pleasure. When
| the conviction has come to him, not by authority and
11 dogma, but by the positive evidence of facts and phenomena,
II that there is a soul in man, the psychologist learns to see
| a soul in nature. The proofs of it are patent to him. He
11 finds its presence about him everywhere, underlying all
| substance, explaining many mysteries, and solving a
I multitude of problems, wholly insoluble by materialism.
| j To the psychologist the universe wears a new aspect; this
| (| world has for him a new meaning; nature, new teachings;
III life, a new mission ; duty, a loftier aim. He contemplates
i j a nobler present, and hopes confidently for a greater future.
111 As he makes that present he knows that he will mould
11 that future. He asks himself if it be not possible, nay
11 probable, that if there be a soul in man and a soul in
11 nature—a present Deity, in fact—what is to us the material
) | universe, constructed, as the scientists assert, of molecules,
\ i may be the surging up, as it were, in those infinitely various
11 material forms, but true to a few types, of a universe of
1 soul permeating and underlying the molecular structure of
239
Nov. 15, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
which it is only the perceptible embodiment, that is for
ever changing its shape, but remains the same in substance
still ?
For there is no death in nature—because there is no
annihilation. It is only dissolution, change, separation
of particles and reconstruction. No particle perishes. The
material mechanism is resolved into its elements and re¬
appears. If there be a soul in man, that also cannot
die. It must remain somewhere under some condition of
existence.
The psychologist recognises with awe and veneration in
all this ceaseless round of dissolution and reformation the
presence of an animating, directing, and intelligent power
very like that he is conscious of in himself. Recognising
soul as the intelligent force that is within, he recognises the
presence and the action of the like force without. Seeing
soul in nature as in man, he feels what the poet has ex¬
pressed for him in thoughts that breathe and words that
burn:—
For I have learned
To look on Nature, not as in the hour
Of thoughtless youth, but hearing oftentimes
The still, sad music of humanity;
Not harsh nor grating, but of ample power
To chasten and subdue. And I have felt
A presence that disturbs me with the joy
Of elevated thoughts; a sense sublime
Of something far more deeply interfused,
Whose dwelling in the light of setting suns,
And the round ocean, and the living air,
And the blue sky, and in the heart of man :
A motion and a spirit that impels
All thinking things, all objects of all thought,
And rolls through all things.
Therefore am I still
A lover of the meadows and the woods
And mountains, and of all that we behold
From this green earth; of all the mighty world
Of eye and ear, both what they half create
And what perceive; well pleased to recognise
In Nature and the language of the sense
The anchor of my purest thought, the nurse,
The guide, the guardian of my heart and soul,
Of all my moral being.—Wordsworth.
THE DIVINING ROD.
Some weeks since we recorded the visit of Mr. John Mullins, of
Colerne, the celebrated “ water discoverer,” to Wootton Bassett, and we
observe that he has since exhibited his powers in other parts of Eng¬
land, even so distant as Lincolnshire. In the Grantham Journal
of September 28th last, there is a report of a speech made by Sir
William E. Welby Gregory, Bart., M.P., at the annual meeting of the
Grantham Science and Art Classes on September 23rd, 1878, as
follows ; “ I had occasion to seek for an additional supply of water for
my house and garden, and I was induced from several accounts I had
heard of his performance to send for a man out of Wiltshire, of whom
you may have heard, who discovers running water by the aid of a
twig or, as it used to be called in ancient days, a divining rod. The
man came, apparently a very simple, straightforward sort of fellow,
who did not profess to know the reason why, but simply the fact that
when he crossed running water the twig turned upwards in his hand,
and he indicated two spots where he said I should tind water at a very
moderate depth. I knew that his powers had been tested in every
possible way ; he had been blindfolded, tricks had been played upon
him with pipes and drains, and he had always stood the test. So I
determined to sink my wells in accordance with his recommendations,
and I may say at once that in both cases have found a most satisfactory
supply of water within the promised depth. But meantime I men¬
tioned what I had been doing to two gentlemen well versed in geology,
and both, as by one consent, agreed in laughing the water-finder to
scorn. They said he might by long experience have gained great skill
in guessing where water would be found (one of the two, by the way,
undertook to say from his geological knowledge that there would be
no water at less than two or three times the depth indicated); he might
simply be an impostor; only one thing was certain, viz., he could
not be possessed of any occult power. Science could not understand
such a power existing, and science believes nothing that it cannot
understand (laughter). Now, why should not this man be endowed
with some force or power which is not yet explained? (Hear, hear.)
Did science know all about electricity a century ago ? What can it
tell now about animal magnetism, mesmerism, and so forth ? Such
language as these gentlemen held seems to me to be based on a doubt¬
ful fallacy. It seems to assume, first, that the human intellect is
capable of understanding now all that it ever will be able to under¬
stand ; and, secondly, that there is no limit to that capacity, but that
it can grasp and see into all the mysteries of Providence.”
Two or more spirit circles meet regularly in Torquay. There are
others at Dartmouth and Brixham.
FORM MANIFESTATIONS IN THE LIGHT OF RECENT
EVENTS.
BY W. STAINTON MOSES, M.A.
Between the optimism of Mr. Blackburn and the pessimism of
Mr. St. George Stock (vide The Spiritualist, November 1st), it may be
permitted one to steer a middle course, avoiding thereby the strange
logical fallacies that pervade both letters. Mr. Blackburn has proved,
to his own satisfaction, what no careful investigator who has had oppor¬
tunity of testing Williams can entertain doubt of, viz., that he is a
genuine medium. But that does not affect the question to which Mr.
Riko rightly pins his critics. Was the special seanee at Amsterdam fraudu¬
lent or not ?
Mr. St. George Stock, with an utter violation of the simple laws of
logic which in his case is very astounding, argues (if argument it can be
called) thus: John King has been for years a well-known figure, and on
him rests “ much of the fabric of belief in Spiritualism.” (A passing
word of wonder at that statement!) “And now it turns out that John
King was, all the while, a false beard, some dirty muslin, and a bottle of
phosphoric oil.” One asks in wonder, Why? and the answer is given
with much naivete, “ He is proved to have consisted of these simple
ingredients on one occasion, and the presumption, of course, is that he
was never anything more.” Mr. Stock, that is, has generalised from a
single instance, respecting which he assumes that he knows all the
facts, and proceeds, neglecting all the evidence contra, to lay down
a universal law, deduced, as of course, from a special instance. Can
anything be more astonishingly fallacious 1 Over and over again, in
houses where he was a. stranger, held hand and foot, or so placed as to
render fraud impossible, Williams has demonstrated to minds the most
sceptical the fact of his mediumship ; nay, he has submitted to the judg¬
ment of |a committee which has placed that fact beyond doubt by the
pure scientific method of mechanical registration of his weight when the
psychic form was visible. Yet all this is to go for nothing, because, away
in Amsterdam, under circumstances of which Mr. Stock is not fully
informed, at a seance at which he was not present, Williams is alleged
(and I do not express any opinion, as yet, on the merits of that
allegation), to have been detected in the possession of articles which
might have been used for purposes of imposture. There are no genuine
coins of the realm, because Mr. Stock reads that somebody somewhere
once took a bad penny.
It is only because such letters, signed by such a name as Mr. Stock’s, do
harm, create prejudice, and retard the progress of calm investigation,
! | that I venture to point out thus strongly the fallacy that underlies it.
(| Instead of its “ requiring very strong evidence to make it anything but
! the height of folly to assert ” Williams’s mediumship, it would seem that
i that pinnacle has been reached when that mediumship is denied on the
| faith of this one allegation; even if we assume (as I certainly do) the
5 | entire good faith and truthfulness of the Dutch witnesses. This surely,
|! in the case of Mr. Stock, is the “ psychological phenomenon worthy of
j j study and elucidation.”
) | Writing, as I do, before the report of the committee, I do not say a
(i word on the questions which it is its province to entertain. But I
11 desire to reiterate what I long since pointed out in two or more papers
)! read at the discussion meetings of the British National Association of
j i Spiritualists—viz., that almost all cases of detected fraud are connected
\ | with the cabinet seances of so-called materialising mediums. The
| j Spiritualist, I am glad to find, has lent its influence to the advice that
| i such seances in public should be discouraged. I have long thought
11 and said so. Especially when held on the premises of a medium who
| i derives a not inconsiderable profit from their success, they are perfectly
j I worthless in respect of the evidence they furnish : they afford facilities
j! for imposture which a man must be a very paragon of virtue to resist,
when both reputation for success, and income are at stake; and they
generate an atmosphere of credulity, and a tendency to laxity of judg¬
ment, if not of principle, in those who haunt them (judging from the
excuses for plain imposture that are sometimes put forward), which it is
the interest of all who value the fair fame of Spiritualism resolutely to
discountenance.
The answer ready to the tongue, “ We must have the cabinet, or we
shall get nothing,” may be dismissed with the rejoinder:—“ If you are
right, lef us have nothing. Better that than fraud and discredit.” But
you are wrong. The cabinet is not essential to the study of this branch
of the subject. In proportion as it is abolished the phenomenon will
occur under other conditions. Experience proves this in the past, and
will establish it in the future. Nor must it be forgotten that some of the
best and most crucial proofs of the evolution of another entity from the
body of a medium have been given without the aid of a cabinet.
Whether, however, we can have these tremendous portents in our own
way or not, let us agree, one and all, on every ground of honesty and for
our own mere credit, as well as from motives far higher and nobler than
these, that we will have none of them if they are to be had only at the
cost of perpetually recurrent fraud, and amid surroundings which neces¬
sarily suggest imposture to the unprejudiced observer.
Whether, again, this fraud is chargeable on medium or spirits is not
to the point. We must deal with facts as we find them, and if a medium
is detected in imposture, it is certain that he will have to suffer for it.
If the controlling spirits drive him—a helpless tool in their hands—to
dupe us, then we must, in self-defence, take care that he is placed in a
position where he cannot dupe us. If we, by our neglect of plain condi¬
tions, so constitute our circles as to invite only that which is mean, or
foolish, or tricksy, then we must cease to constitute our circles in that
manner. Only thus can we save ourselves from the merited scorn of
sane folk, and Spiritualism from becoming a byword of contempt.
But I am frequently told, when pressing these considerations, that it
is easy to secure immunity from imposture by simple precautions. By
what means ? I inquire.
By tying the medium to his seat. These mechanical methods of tying
240
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 15, 1878.
and sealing, roping and the like, are, first, clumsy and bad in them¬
selves, little calculated to establish the first pre-requisite for successful
intercourse with the world of spirit; and next, they are fallacious,
inasmuch as they establish a false feeling of security in the mind of the
observer. Bonds are laughed at by spirit-power, as the experiment of
lashing Miss F. Cook to Mr. Crookes’ library ladder, and her almost
instantaneous release, conclusively prove. If more evidence is required,
it is found in the case of Mrs. Compton, of Savannah, who was released
from the most complicated system of tying (even her dress being nailed
to the floor), and transfigured before the eyes of careful observers.
By stripping the medium and re-clothing him in dark garments. I
earnestly hope that this method of investigation will not become common.
It is far more objectionable than tying. In many conceivable cases it
is not practicable. In none is it of any service unless done thoroughly,
in a way which few would like to enforce, and which, if enforced, would
leave a decent person in a state little fit for the evolution of spiritual
phenomena.
If there be other methods which the perverted ingenuity of man can
devise in order to avoid the simple expedient of placing the medium in
plain view, I hope they will be abandoned. Let us restrict cabinet in¬
vestigations to such experiments as those conducted by the Research
Committee. Let us draw a strong line between such scientific experi¬
ments, and the public seances frequented by witnesses of another type,
and 'agaia between these and the home circle. Many inquirers are
forced to go to public mediums for evidence that they can get in no other
way. Let us at least try to provide them with something which shall
not be palpably and ludicrously insufficient to establish any evidence of
spirit-power. And, above all, let us crush out with iron heel all condi¬
tions which lend themselves to fraud ; which (under the best of circum¬
stances) are such as to prevent any satisfactory evidence from being
had ; and which send the inquirer away bewildered and puzzled, if not
disgusted. And if by such a course we run temporary risk of diminish¬
ing the marvels we have to show, let us console ourselves with the
thought that what we do present will rest on a far more substantial
basis, and that we have no reason to believe that the loss will be per¬
manent.
In saying this I am fully aware that the remedy rests where it is
extremely hard for public opinion to reach it. Gaping curiosity and
fatuous credulity will find their correlatives in imposture and fraud to
the end of the chapter. So long as there is a market so ready, the
crop of shams will be large. I have no hope that for the present, at
least, any detection of an imposture will prevent it being a more or less
paying speculation. It rests, however, with Spiritualists to say how
far they will aid and abet the perpetuation of conditions which make
such imposture an easy, safe, and profitable speculation to any
charlatan who cares to risk the chance. And it should be the business
of men, whose evil fate it is to minister to the public at five shillings a
head the evidence they seek, to demand for themselves that they shall
not be placed in a position which is at best equivocal, and which so fre¬
quently places them under accusation of fraud.
IS CLAIRYOYANCE A FORM OF MEDIUMSHIP ?
(From l‘rThe Banner of Light.”)
MEDiUMSHir, according to the etymology of the word, must apply
to anything that intervenes, or goes between two persons, for
any purpose — any instrumentality or means of communication or
exchange.
Now clairvoyance, or clear-seeing, is certainly such a means. Any
person possessing this power in exercise can see things which others
not thus endowed cannot see, and thus can be an instrumentality of
communicating knowledge of such unseen things.
If clairvoyance is of that grade which sees spirit-beings and scenes in
the spirit-world, then its possessor, by describing what he or she j
holds, becomes so far a medium for communicating information of such
beings and scenes to others who do not enjoy the power.
When to this faculty of clear-seeing is added that of clairaudience, or
clear-hearing, or any form of impressibility by which thoughts may be I
received from invisible beings, then the ppssessor of these faculties, by
giving utterance to such thoughts as may be received, becomes a j
medium for their communication to others. And it matters not !
whether these thoughts or impressions come from individual spirit-
beings, or from “ the Great Positive Mind,” or are generated in the j
mind of the seer by what he perceives and feels in that invisible realm.
In either case he becomes a medium for their transmission or expression
to others who are not similarly endowed.
It is a very limited conception of mediumship to suppose that it
consists merely in being a passive or unconscious channel for the i
expression of others’ thoughts—a sort of tunnel or spout through which i
anything and everything may be poured, without effort, discrimination, i
or profit on the medium’s part.
This form of mediumship may be common, but it certainly is not the
only form. This passive, unconscious, non-progressive style of
mediumship may be very useful, so far as the production of i
phenomena and the giving of personal tests are concerned ; but for the
apprehension and expression of the higher truths of wisdom, there
surely is need of mental and spiritual growth—of the development
of all the higher attributes of manhood and womanhood. And this is
not likely to come of mere passiveness, negativeness, or indifference, j
but is born of effort, struggle, and earnest aspiration for the good and
true. There are mediums of the latter class, though they are not as J
numerous as desirable.
Mere clairvoyance, or ability to see spirits and behold the beauties |
of the “ Summer Land,” though a very noble faculty, cannot, of itself, j
be supposed to confer or insure the highest spiritual culture, any more
than the mere exercise of ordinary sight in this world makes a wise i
man. The most doltish men, and even most animals, have that power
But when coupled with the earnest aspiration to know and to improve,
and with the harmonious exercise of all other faculties of being, clair¬
voyance unquestionably is a powerful aid to the highest and largest
growth. A. E. N.
Prevalent Distress.—Information constantly reaches us of the vast
amount of distress existing throughout this country from long stagnation
in trade; and there are cases of severe suffering among Spiritualists.
One of the best remedies for those who suffer most is emigration to New
Zealand. The English Legislature has been adding greatly to the
distress by spending millions of money on unproductive labour. Further,
in this country, owing to the system of land tenures, fit only for the dark
ages, the men who cultivate the ground are as much as possible divorced
from the soil; they are rarely the men who own it; they therefore will
not expend the utmost amount of energy and capital on another man’s
land, consequently vast sums are sent abroad annually to pay for food
which might be grown at home, and Ireland is kept in a chronic state of
disaffection by land laws long abolished in every civilised country but
the United Kingdom. About £100,000,000 a year are now sent abroad
to pay for foreign food of all kinds. The Census Returns show that
during the last thirty or forty years the agricultural districts of England
and Wales have, with the exception of a small central area, been in
course of depopulation of their agricultural labourers and farmers. Some
of them emigrate, others lead the more unhealthy lives incidental to
residence in great towns. Dr. Beddoe’s statistics show that the concen¬
tration of life in great towns, instead of in the pure air of the country, is
causing the race to deteriorate.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
G. H. D.—You wish to anonymously censure known individuals, and to pub¬
licly imply that certain honourable and fearless people have not “ the
courage of their convictions.” Yours is, in the present case at least, an
acrid style of writing, of anything but a spiritual nature, or a tone calcu¬
lated to elevate the minds of readers ; but as you raise questions of prin¬
ciple and of justice, the letter shall be printed if you put your name and
address to it. Why not thus give evidence that you have the courage of
your own convictions? Your qualifications for moral censorship can then
be better examined. You do some more “ judging ” in the letter last
sent, but as your qualifications are not yet recognised, nor your authority
admitted, why not come down from the judgment seat till some sanction
can be obtained for its assumption ? One characteristic of a good judge
should be, that he has no desire to shoot at known people from under
cover of the darkness. There is nothing personal or unfriendly in these
remarks, for we know nothing of you except from the letters you have
sent, and object to them chiefly on account of the irreligious acidity of
their style, not that much cannot be said in favour of your arguments.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the host
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickons through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A. ;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letter’s.
'The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. fid. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. fid., post free (Illustrated with diagrams)
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Nov. 15, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST
ill
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of "W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting '.and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation-
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. fid.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. fid.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, P.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens’ these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them: they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS B'X ANDREW JACKSON DA.YIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . •
The Physician. VoL I. Gt. Harmonia .
The Teacher. „ II. „ .
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . •
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life .
History and Philosophy of Evil . . •
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda) .
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . <
Penetralia; Containing Harmomal Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures . . . . .
e. d.
15 0
7 6
7 fi
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 0
3 6
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 6
7 0
6 0
7 6
7 6
6 0
6 0
2 6
3 0
7 8
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . , • 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) , . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 fi
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 0
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A.Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nuraery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
pretod by Comparative Mythology, by John Fisko, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind,; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LB.!). .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Oollyer, M.D. . . 12 C
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
throe vols. ... .... IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
d scientifically accurate description oj Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously "Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Oloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
88, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—iSfowIA Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits In the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr, Slade, and Mi’s. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Het bert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—^Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—^Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kernel-—Objections t&
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau Voysoy—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
In half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aacl the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes's
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin's discovery oflightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,,
■ carriagejmid to any railway station in the United Kingdom. £110s.
London; W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Price five shillings. Grown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCH OGRAP II Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography In the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II  From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black-
bum (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III  From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation o/
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade, before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monek were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—^Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, "W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Gxon) ”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death. ” Given through the trance-mediumship o f
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakot—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marry at—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A, Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burue—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthcdox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent-—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. B nrke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (EnnesfaUen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzi;;) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harris m—
Meditation and the Voles of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massoy—
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism
ByLisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Cluld’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
800 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETIN8S,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Gontentionabout Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form oiroles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at onee irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
V
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 15, 1878.
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
.MATUBE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
"T ORD BEAOONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
UNO'S FBTJIT SALT.- The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, KEFBESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO-
BATTNG BEVEBAGB, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FBUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression,- Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FBUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhoM a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FBUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EYERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
rTNO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
“Since I have used ENO’S FBUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
E
NO’S’ FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
“Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.” • *
WHAT EVEBY TEAVELLING THUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
N THE WOELD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A'
GENEEAI, LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUAEANTEED TO BE PEEP ABED FKOM SOUND KIPE
FBUIT.
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Kipe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.    
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
i s particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ITiNO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
N products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blcod free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it 
J. C. End.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FBUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
W
ORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HE ABT, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FBUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I bougntit. I had suffered more
orless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
nut very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FBUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please.—I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
C'iAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
V Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FBUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TBADE
MABK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Pans-PHABMACIE DE BEBAL. 14, BUE DE
LA PAIX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PBOSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7- How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Baven.
—13. Materialistic Beligion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the 51 other in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive 19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblyaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Keception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Bifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
KusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
whicn adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical-
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing rending for an occasional spare half-hour.. .. They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
.;. The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover. ... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-boos elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept,
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an-adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of Us
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome."
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,'’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.\ ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 8d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHaPIEB III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Bash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Beading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Ctliers — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darliug’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII;—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S tiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyie is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyie) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Sub'ect—Effects of Odyie—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcrait—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—-Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Ruckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
info Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance —Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Full wood's Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, liond m. and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, Londc a, E.C.
