BeGJSTERED as a Newspaper.
Qft
ax© jotisn^ai< o# f)^Yciaoi<oG[idsi<
#lb^sf rxrnmd^ ioHIj Sp.rHttalism tn <&xmt §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuvedes Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia.
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 333. (Yoii. XIV.—No. 2.) LONDON : FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontents.
Spirit Photography in the Dark. By Count de Bullet 
Sunday Spiritualistic Services  
Mr. Lambelle at Ladbroke Hall   
Prophecy and Morality. By Captain B. F. Burton, F.K.G.S.
A Test Seance ...   I   
A Highland Coronach. By J. A. Campbell:—A Highland
Mother’s Dirge for her Child Foully Slain 
Poetry:—God Forgets Not His Poor 
Correspondence:—A Seance at Cape Town—Spiritualism
in Hackney—Psychographic Pictures—An Impromptu
Home Seance— Matter and Spirit—The Assistant-
Secretaryship of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists—The Religious Aspects of Spiritualism—The
Rev. J. Tyerman’s Approaching Visit to England—A
Murderer and his Victim—Spiritualism in Australia...
Materialised Spirit Feet   
“ Twist Will and Fate    
The Queen's English... ...   
Paragraphs:—Private Theatricals, 16 ; British Museum
Lectures, 16 ; Eternal Punishment  
13
16
17
18
18
18
19
19
23
24
24
17
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS
At the Offices of the Association.—On and after the 30th
December, 1878, the offices at 38, Great Russell-street, will be
open between the hours of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all
week-days, except Saturday, when they will be open between
the hours Of 10 a.m. and 1 p.m.
FORTNIGHTLY MEETING.
The usual Fortnightly Meeting will be omitted on Jan. 6th.
On Monday, Jan. 20th, a paper will be read by Mr. W. H.
Harrison, entitled “ Hauntings.”
On Friday, Jan. 10th, Soiree Committee, at 5 p m.
On Tuesday, Jan. 14th, the ordinary Council Meeting will be
held at 6.30 p.m., preceded by the sitting of the Finance Com¬
mittee at 6 p.m.
THE EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE
Holds its sittings every Friday, at 6.30 p.m., unless adjourned
by order of the chairman, or by vote of the committee at its
previous meeting. E. Kislingbury, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akebman-road, Brixton.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rriHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica-
ions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E, F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the "Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present fime,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess ot
Caithness ;NHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Set, Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin ); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE Purdon,M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fahyan jDawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C.
Hall F.S.A; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ((United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United ^Kingdom, 10s. I0d.;
In the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O,
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of TTie Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper BranchOffice, 88, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
BRITISH MUSEUM LECTURES.—A
Course of Three Lectures (with the permission of the
authorities) will be given by C. Carter Blake, Doct. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy and Zoology, Westminster
Hospital, on Jan. 7, Jan. 11, and Jan. 14. Hours 11 to 1. Tickets
5s. each. Address C. Carter Blake, care of 38, Great Russell-
street, W.C.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following engagements:—Perry Barr Institute,
December 3,1878; New Swindon Mechanics’ Institute, January
8,1879. Ooalbrookdale Literary Institute, January 21 (Second
time this season). Hastings, Gensing Hall, Afternoon and
Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial Society, February
4. Leamington Institute, February 25. Croydon Literary
Institution, March 6 (2nd time). Favourable terms arranged
with Institutes en route. For particulars adlress Mr. Frank
Dietz, 54, Denbigh Street, London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland
Street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
January 15th, 1879, February 12th, March 12th, April 9th, May
14th, June 11th. Tickets for the Series One Guinea each.
The Relighon of Spiritualism.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Will LECTURE
EVEEY SUNDAY EVENING,
At the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer Street, W.
Admission Free.
Lecture begins at 7.30. Doors closed at 7.45.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. 4. January. Price 2s. 8d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Is Immortality a Delusion ? By Epes Sargent.
II.—Sister Celeste. By J. C. Earle.
III. —Spiritual Philosophy in Relation to Death and Spirit Life.
By Rev. J. Page Hopps.
IV. —Inspiration. No. 2. By Mrs. De Morgan.
V. —Reminiscences of George Thompson. By his Daughter,
Mrs. Nosworthy,
VI.—Zetalethes, the Truthseeker. By Miss Greenfield.
VII.—The Mound-Builders. By William Denton.
VIII.—Moutanism.
Materialistic Mysticism—A Geologist’s Confession—The Seat
of Evil.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs, Weldon.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, &c., &e., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I„ by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London: J. E, Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Jan. 20.—Mr. W. H. Harrison, “ Hauntings.’’
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living.’’
Feb. 17.—Dr. Carter Blake, “ On the Nerve Ether.”
March 3.—Dr. Wyld. “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mrs. Ellis, “Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2.”
April 7.—Mr. Morell Theobald, “Experiences in the Home
Circle, No. 3.”
April 21.—Mr. C. C. Massey. “ On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.. “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) TTese days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “Review of the Session
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can lie
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & CO.
Show Rooms 3, Ludoate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <fcc.
post free, seven stamps.
J. TURNER,
LOCKSMITH, BELLHANGER, AND GASFITTER,
Stove and Range Maker,
1, HIGH STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Every description of Patent Close Fire Kitcheners repaired
and fixed.
Hot Water, Steam, and Bath Fittings.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 and 80, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened ■with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custodyof Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4. excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on arvplieation.
FRANCIS RAVENSQROFT, Manager
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 10, 1879.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.'W.
Vice- Presidents.
Biaekhurn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Cdemnn, Beniamin, 1 Bernard-villas, Unper Norwood.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs . 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond Q., M-S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton,
S-W
Oreg'-rv, Mrs. Makdouffall.21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Honvwood Mrs.. 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.It.T.. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings E.C.
Massey, c. C, Barrister-at-t aw, ITarcourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.O.
'Roger?, SSL Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end. Finchley, N.
Speer, StanhopeTempleman.M.D..Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
read. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, "VV P., Derby House. Helper.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, '"rs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Brnnett. Edward T . The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
B'nney, F A.. 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester-
Bonwick. .T., F.R G.S.
Chapman, John. 10. Duhkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H„ 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar.” Portsmouth.
Crosl'and, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dswe, N. Fabyan, .5, Portman-street, Portman-square, IV.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H . 7. Oberstein-road. New IVandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., J59. Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz Gerald. Mrs. D. G.. 6. Akerman-road. BHxton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate,N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sbooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton. Miss, 20. Deiamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. Barf . Lamnort-hnll, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.l C E.. Junior TTnited Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex,
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Bemers-street, W.
Meltbv, Mrs.. 61, Gower-=treet, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood^road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71. Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse,.! J, Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road. Derby,
lifoses, Rev. W. Stairton, M.A., TTniversity College, N W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, ‘Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool
Newhould, Rev. w. W , 118, Albanv-sireet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton. W. 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 13. Harper-street, Bloomsbury. W.C.
Pickersgiil, W. C„ 3. Blandford-square, N.W.
Reirrers, Christian, 47, Mornington-road, Regent’s-park.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson,84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Rtrawbridge, Mr.?. G. N., 84. Redc.liffe-gardens. West Brompton,
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford.
Theobald, Moivli. 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M.. 02, Granville-park, BlacklieatH.S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Ciaverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Turner, J. P- Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
'Wedgwood, Hensleigh. 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leedt.
Wilson, D. H., M. A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-sqnare. Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1. The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W,
Ilonoi'ary Treasurer.
Alex. Caider, Esq., i, Hereford-squaro, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russeli-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Htghpess Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdid Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yen Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adeline Von vay, Gonobltz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz. Austria
The Baroness Gu'denstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassois y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Barori von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein,
ft. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Eenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, IT.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell. LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearyehand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
Tames Mylne, Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, TT.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street. Carlton, Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epee Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H T. Child. Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavttlroz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town,South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq.. 2210. Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vcmon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue. Andrjeux, Quartier de 1’Europe,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomerjr-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassomnierre. 285, ChausseeSt.Pierre. Etterbcck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schacrbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jaeoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test,Esq., M.D.,Union Snrings. CavugaCo., New York, U.S.A,
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan. Esq., SO, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
Lbncon, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piaee, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer. Epcjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piaee, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Bel grave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Beigrave-road. KW.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil. Modlir.g, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet. Rue Tanger. Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street. Boston.
TI. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York, .
T. Blyton, Esq., 58, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—II. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The-Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
plaoe, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA.DIETZ.
" Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. Cd. London, W.C. Spirituaiist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—IL The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—XX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXL Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
World! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass, Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
EAYEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Givto through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
Gl, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home d&ily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
a engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, Ac., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street. London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
~RS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal-
g. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS.M.G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street,. New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE-
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 j ears
established), attends Patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 ac his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms-
bury-square^London. Hours 10 to 6. Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday evenings, office hours, owing to press of business,
extended to nine o’clock.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRIT! SMO IN
XA- ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15ih of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Boglno, No. 23.
13 EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fondb par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published b> the Soditi
Anonyms. 7. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PS'XCHISCBE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science,
price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
"Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can he
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, hoard and all included, £3 per week
each; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Cos-
sonnerie, Paris.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 10th, 1879.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY IN THE DARK.
BY COUNT DE BULLET.
Since my last communication, although I have encoun¬
tered serious interruptions from several causes, chiefly
prolonged and very unfavourable weather, I have had some
new and curious results, which may be of interest to your
readers in view of the questions which have lately disturbed
the world of Spiritualism.
On several occasions I have discussed with John King the
practicability of photographing a living person by his process
in the dark; I could not understand why, if the material
things which appeared in the photographs could be thus
taken, the power might not be equal to impressing the
human form. I have also thought that if the materialised
spirit takes on so much of the body and substance of the
medium, as the weighing tests of Messrs. Harrison, Blackburn,
and company, recorded in your columns, would tend to
prove, then some of the most natural of the specimens
produced were nearly two-thirds of the way towards the
human form entire.
But I received no encouragement in my suggestion.
Without saying, positively, that it could not be done, John
King has expressed his doubts about it, remarking that he
did not think the light was strong enough ; and he did not
proffer to make the trial. Thus the matter was passed over.
Accident, however, sometimes surprises the scientific
discoverer by revealing an unexpected reach and capability
in his invention. Within a few weeks Mr. Firman has
moved his residence to another apartment in the same
dwelling, and in the new stance room some changes have
been made. Theretofore during the stances the medium has
reclined on a bed lying on the floor behind the curtain.
Since the removal this has been placed on a small iron bed¬
stead raised about two feet, thus bringing the medium when
entranced within the focus of the camera.
One day shortly after the change, and after repeated un¬
successful efforts of the female spirit “ Angela” to be
photographed in a new position, John King said that he
would try her again nearer the medium, in the hope to gain
additional strength thereby. When the process was finished
I found on the plate empty drapery standing upright over
the couch, and an impression of the medium himself as he
lay asleep on the bed, together with the upper part of the
bedstead. The impression was not strong enough, however,
to print from.
Here was a practical, though unexpected, answer to my
speculative queries; or, at all events, the beginning of a
satisfactory solution. “ Angela” immediately wrote through
Mrs. Firman : “ I was well formed, and wrapped myself in
the drapery you see, but got out of range and floated up so
that you see nothing of me, for which I am very sorry, for I
wanted you to see me.” John King wrote through the
medium : “ The drapery which you see was that of Angela,
but somehow or other she managed to get out of it before
you opened the camera. I do not understand how every¬
thing came like that—I did not expect it, and am astonished.
If we had another plate I should have tried again, and I
think with better success—we do not know where we are
getting to.” I should here remark that Mrs. Firman has
been developing as an excellent medium for the last three
years, and is strongly clairvoyant. She always takes part
in the stances when able to do so. I referred to her several
times in my last communication as posing for the arrange¬
ment of the camera, seeing the photographic light, &c.;
but through the errors of the press her identity was merged
in that of her husband. The female spirits appear to
depend on her to a degree for their power. She has latterly
been in ill health, and necessarily absent from the stances—
to this cause I attribute the failures of Angela. All that I have 1
; | above narrated was but the prelude to the more important
! performance which I have taken up my pen to describe.
Some days intervened without any result, when at last I
was startled by finding on the plate a representation of the
| medium lying on the bed as before, also an exact copy of
him, in form and appearance, standing near the foot of the bed,
and a figure, apparently another copy, standing on the bed;
| but the impression was not strong.
As soon as the plate was developed, John King wrote:
| “ You have to-day the double spirit of the medium, making
| in all three in one; but as it has not come well I will try
| again another time.” Again I had a repetition of the im-
| pression first described, but still more faint, John King
complaining of the bad weather as the cause. He depends
! on the atmosphere for his light, and when that is damp it
effectually checks his operations. For his materialisations
| he relies almost entirely on the medium; but that process is
j seriously affected also by the weather, a clear dry air being
best. The weather continuing unfavourable, and Mrs.
| Firman being still ill, I had no result of any kind for several
i days after that last mentioned. Finally, I heard the voice
j of John King giving his usual hearty greeting, after more
| than a week’s silence. He said that he was afraid that he
| could not make a better picture that day than the last, as
j the weather was so damp; and he wished me to decide
| whether he should go on or postpone the photographic effort
to another day. As he could not promise to do better I con-
1 eluded to defer the operation. Taking advantage of the
| restoration of friend John’s colloquial powers, I asked him
I to explain the meaning of the triple figures of the medium
| which had been photographed; how they were endowed,
| what animated the “ doubles” if they were animate, and if
| it were intended to be asserted that the spirit of a man was
| capable of being divided between double and triple repre¬
sentations of his body ?
He replied, in substance, u You have asked me a difficult
| question, that is, difficult for me to explain so as to be fully
understood. I shall not go into any long or complicated
| explanation, for fear that I may be 1 brought up, all standing,’
with logic ” (referring to a previous discussion). He went on
to say, u Well, as you see, there are three forms represented
—the first, the original of the medium lying on the bed;
the next, the form standing at the foot of the bed, in all
j respects a double of the medium in appearance, in body,
! and in dress. This is a material body, capable of moving
| about, and personating the original, and is formed in a
i manner analogous to that in which a spirit is materialised.
| This double explains much of what mischievous spirits do
| to place mediums in a false position. The third form is
| different; it is not material. I would explain that in this
| way: from every human being there comes an emanation—
| call it if you please effluvium—and it is from that the third
| form is produced. You will perceive that it is transparent;
| the wall paper can be seen through it.”
I asked him if he could form a double of me, and give my
photograph from the cabinet, while I was sitting in front in
| my usual seat ?
He answered, 11 Yes, if the necessary conditions were pre-
| sent; that is to say, if you were capable of being put in a
| mesmeric sleep, and were so asleep.” Here he said that he
! must go for the day, and concluded with the usual “ good-
| bye ” and invocation, leaving, as will be seen, the spirit part
! of my question unanswered. Five days more elapsed with-
| out any effectual result, when I found bn the plate two forms
of the medium standing outside of the curtain—one looking
| down, and the other, with uplifted hands, apparently regarding
| his vis-a-vis with much surprise.
John King wrote in regard to this : “ 1 put the two
i doubles outside, and made my light as concentrated as I
14
THE SPIRITUALIST.
•Jan. 10, 1879.
could, as only just to give the two, consequently it was very
powerful (the fine weather helping us, as usual), and there¬
fore I think the impression is somewhat burnt. I did not
have the curtain open while it was being done. You have
there, not the medium proper, but two pretty good duplicates of
him, one looking very much astonished at seeing the other.”
I put to friend John, here, the latter part of my former
question, that is, what animated the a doubles,” so that they
could be made to represent the original ?
He wrote: “ The double is certainly animated by the
spirit of the medium—the connection between the two is
never broken. Hence, if you were to attempt to take hold
of the double, it would fly back to the source from whence it
came (i.e.), to the body of the medium. This is the reason
that where a spirit or double has been suddenly caught hold
of in the dark, when the light has been struck the medium
has been found in the hands of the person who grabbed.
When Katie King was taken hold of suddenly by one of an
audience, he was found holding the medium, Miss Florrie
Cook.”
On remarking that the last of “ the doubles ” were not
exact copies, the condition of the hair and the attitudes being
different, it was answered : “It is easy for me to place one
in an entirely different position from the other.” In reply
to another suggestion it was written : “ Now you get very
deep into it. I cannot create anything: that belongs to a
power beyond me : there is only one Creator, the Almighty
Father, God. Now, in forming ourselves so as to be seen,
we can take particles from the atmosphere, or we can take
from the body of the medium, which is easier. We have
also the power to double anything or everything; but if you
ask me for the modus operandi, that I cannot explain so ars
to be intelligible to man. I can only ask you to come to our
side if you wish to see how we do it; that is a bad joke, is
it not ? ”
In regard to the last-mentioned photograph of the
“ doubles ” outside the curtain, he further said : “ There is in
the first place the double of the medium, which I will call
the double proper, partaking more or less of the animation of
the medium, and it is from that double that the other is
made, proving three in one; but we can go no further than
that.”
I here called attention to the apparent inconsistency of his
statements in saying, in the first instance, that the second
double was produced from the 11 emanation ” or “ effluvium,”
and in the last that it was made from the first double. He
answered that both doubles were composed of the “ efflu¬
vium,” but with as much materialisation in the first formed
as could be safely taken from the medium, and that the
second double, in both cases, was made from the first one.
On another occasion he said, that “ the spirit forming a
f double* dominates the ‘double ’ at will.” I have since had
another photograph of the medium lying asleep, and his
double kneeling just above him, and an indefinite shadow of
another double. This is the strongest yet taken. I am told
that in the course of time a photograph will be given, in the
usual manner and place, of the “ double” of the medium,
while the medium himself is lying asleep in an adjoining room.
I have encountered “ doubles ” before this in my varied
spiritual experience, but in a different way. I will mention
an instance. Once I was attending a stance given at my
request by Mr. Firman at the house of a friend, here, in Paris.
It was held in a room of moderate dimensions, securely
locked; there were" present this friend, his wife, Mr.
O’Sullivan, the medium, and myself. We sat in the dark
in this order: Mr. O’Sullivan had the hand of the medium
on one side, the lady his other hand on the other side, and
my friend and I sat together completing the circle. Shortly
after the light was put out I felt myself taken hold of in a
rude manner. I quickly threw my hand behind me, and
grasped firmly the clothing of a retreating figure; but my
arm was seized, and my hold forcibly wrenched away.
For the moment I would have sworn that it was the
medium practising a trick, although, if I had reflected,
I would have realised that if he were capable of and disposed
to practise a trick, he would hardly have attempted that of
insulting one with whom his relations had been so long
agreeable and on whom he depended. I immediately asked
Mr. O’Sullivan, in Spanish, if the medium was in his seat.
ij He replied in the affirmative, and on the light being at once
struck the circle was found complete, and there was no sign
of any intrusion. We shortly after broke up, and I wended
my way home pondering and puzzled. Rut soon we had an
I explanation. We had resumed our sittings at the stance
I room of the medium on the following day, when, on his
| being put in the mesmeric sleep, he suddenly and frantically
| exclaimed, “ Take him away—the Greek ! ” Then he was
thrown violently backwards to the floor, as if in the grasp
of a strong man, struggling convulsively. In this siate he
I continued for at least twenty minutes, alarming us greatly,
| and requiring all our efforts to restore him. As soon as he
| recovered his composure he sat down to write, so as to get
I an explanation of the extraordinary scene. He wrote in
| an entirely new hand, and, as it appeared, that of an inter¬
loping and wicked spirit, who proclaimed that he" had come
| to break up our stances from resentment at a course which
the medium had taken under our advice. The medium had
| been unprofessionally, as a visitor, attending seances at a
spiritual headquarters in Paris, where this spirit, known as
| “ the Greek,” was accustomed to perform extraordinary
■ physical feats, such as lifting heavy articles of furniture,
H chairs in which persons sat, and levitation of the medium.
The medium, I heard, would on these occasions be floated
around the room over the heads of the circle, and perceptible
to all, with his feet touching the ceiling. We found these
attendances weakened the power of the medium, and
he was requested to give them up. The seances at
the other place consequently fell off in attraction—
“ the Greek ” could no longer perform—hence his resent¬
ment, and his course to revenge himself. In his writing he
avowed that the night before he had taken the form of the
medium, doubled him, to injure him in my estimation, and
that he, in seizing him and throwing him down as he did,
intended to do something more serious, plainly implying
that he meant to kill him, and accomplish his revenge by our
being held responsible for the death. Of course I did not be¬
lieve that he had any such power, but there cpuld be no doubt
as to the wicked savagery of his purpose. The obstructions of
this spirit continued nearly two months. We were having,
when they commenced, most interesting materialisations, but
the power ceased with these interruptions. Every day when
the medium sat to write his hand was seized by “ the
Greek” to write messages to us. At first they were most
offensive and impious. He proclaimed himself to be “ a
devil,” and denied the existence of God, defiantly challenging
us to tf-pf'cve”- thshb there was a God. We filled many pages
of our book in our discussions with and efforts to convert
this turbulent and troublesome spirit. We were at last, I
am happy to say, successful, and he became one of the most
contrite, submissive, and grateful of our band of spirits.
But the change was produced only after a long and hard
tussle. He afterwards wrote his life through the medium.
He had been a pirate when in life, and had been fifty years
in the other world without knowing of or believing in the
existence of God. It would seem that infidelity is not con¬
fined to this sphere. He has materialised often, and during
the course of our photographing gave us his portrait. I
will send you a copy. It is not handsome. I must some
day ask your permission to give for your columns a brief
transcript from one of my note-books of “ My Experiences
with the Spirit of Akosus, the Greek Pirate.”
John King has often claimed to perform the “doubling ”
process in regard to material things—in the production of
flowers—constantly with drapery, until a recent period,
when I commenced to furnish the drapery myself to save
power; and on special occasions, when my wife and other
ladies have attended my stances, he has produced bon-bons r
they were quite fresh and palatable. It would be premature
for me to relate all the incredible things which I am
informed spirits have the power to do in regard to material
things by the faculty of doubling them.
In time, knowledge on this subject, as well as upon that
of spirit photography in the dark, will accumulate from other
sources; there must be a beginning somewhere with all
things. If I supposed that such phenomena as I. have
described would be confined in their manifestation to me and
the medium I employ, I would not think, for a moment, of
making my experiences public. I can at least ask your
Jan. TO, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
15
readers to wait for confirmation, if the evidence I furnish is I j
not intrinsically sufficient. ! j
This is apparently a period of pretty general unbelief among | s
many spiritual investigators—a time of subtle intellectual j I
effort to treat the simple truth in every way, but that of | j
accepting and believing it. {(
A season of “Spiritualism without spirits.” But this |
infidelity will work its own cure—the thought engendered ||
in the minds of the doubting—and more practical experience j)
will resolve the problems on the side of the truth, and bring
able and zealous converts to the cause. In time it will be |
as popular to believe the evidence of one’s senses, and the
convictions of one’s intellect, as it is now to lose one’s faith j
and one’s self in a wilderness of vagueness amid bewilder- >
ing clouds of mazy mysticism. Spiritualists will then have j
“ the courage of their opinions.” This will be the era of
“ Spiritualism with spirits.” Then from concurrent, fully
tested phenomena, and reliable, consistent, spirit communi¬
cations, something towards a system, if not a science of
spiritual manifestation in our day and generation will begin
to be constructed by the apostles of the new dispensation.
As yet we are but in the infancy of knowledge on this great |
moral problem. What is that which we speak of as a
materialised spirit ? Is it an impalpable object simply
putting in an appearance—an airy apparition without sub¬
stance ?
Or, when strongly formed, it walks, and talks, and tells us
what it sees, when it grips our hands or strikes a resounding
blow on the. table before us, does it do all this with corporeal
functions borrowed for the occasion from that special being
known as a medium—according to the respectably certified
story of a weighing machine—leaving the poor medium, for j
the time being, barely one-third of the physical substance ]
which he has been gathering, growth by growth, in all its
slow stages of development, and with all the trials and
tribulations of the flesh, from infancy ? j
In other words, is it an improvised human frame and |
form, clothed with flitting flesh, having ephemeral veins I
coursing with provisional blood, eyes whose sight is put out !
almost by the act of seeing—a temporary brain teeming |
with transient thought uttered through vanishing vocal j
organs and nerves and muscles that are taken on and laid off j
at pleasure ? j
If incomplete experience tends to prove this, what incom- ||
prehensible marvels are presented ? If it does not establish jj
this, how much more even does the phenomenon of a j
materialised spirit take us beyond the bounds of finite !
thought into the realms of wonder and amazement!
What bearing the fact and purpose of “ doubles ” which j
are now being projected on the world have on the question, |
remains for further development and consideration. And j
here let me say a few words on the varying differences ||
in the nature of materialisations, affected by the original i
power, and the condition of the medium for the time being, j
the state of the atmosphere, the intelligence and experience j
of the operating spirits, and the character of the audience j
assisting—even the room and its appurtenances have their j
influence. At times the appearances are as hard and fixed j
as coarse masks, or as if cut out of wood, then they are found j
possessed of superhuman strength; again, as unsubstantial as j
the double of a double. I have seen them “ scarce half made j
up,” with a nose or other feature missing, and the flesh as if j
raw—horrible to look at—and then beautiful in flesh, in
feature, and in expression as those I am getting now.
John King has recently offered to present himself to me
fully formed, and allow me to shoot at him with a pistol
loaded with ball as long as I like to do so. I declined to i
engage in the exhilarating practice proposed ; but, at the |j
same time, I remarked that I could not reconcile this bullet n
proof condition with the idea of the intimate and sensitive |j
relations existing between the medium and a materialised |j
spirit, about which so much is said. He answered, u When I jj
present myself to be shot at, I will materialise in a different jj
and more difficult way than usual, chiefly from the particles j j
of the atmosphere. If I should do so from the medium, the j
shock of the shooting would be a very serious affair indeed j
to him.” There is at least one well authenticated case jj
recorded of a materialised spirit being shot at, on notice, in jj
America, without materially (Wstmh'mg its equanimity. i'i
I once asked an intelligent spirit, with whom I was con¬
versing, what form the spirit wore in the other world—as to
deformed persons—and how it was that the form on earth
was resumed in materialising? He answered, somewhat
brusquely : “ You do not suppose that when we get here we
become round like a ball or square like a block ? Having
a form, what is more natural than that we should retain the
most beautiful created by the hand of the Almighty Master,
“ in his own image—that of man.” It may be called the
mould on which the materialisation is made. There is no
such thing as deformity of the spirit; consequently it has
none in the new existence. Moral deformity! yes, I regret
to say, in very many cases of those entering our world ; but
what you call physical deformity was laid aside with the old
apparel—cast off at death. When, however, we show our¬
selves through a medium, we have the power to do so with
the peculiarities of form we had on earth, so that the hump¬
backed shows his hump, and the like, that they may be
identified.
Bearing on the question as to what a spirit takes from a
medium, I have given some unsatisfying thought to the
recent predictions of trance speakers and other mediums,
that soon the time would come that spirits, by combining
the medial powers of numbers, would be able to make more
wonderful appearances—even going to the extravagant ex¬
tent of saying that they would take form at a public meeting
and address the audience.
On this subject I put to John King the following question:
“ Suppose a collection of media combined together with
the harmony of object of a band of minstrels, or better, a
university boat’s crew, where a number of men, united with
a common and intense purpose, submitting to severe train¬
ing, come at last to act in such unison, that it may be said
their muscles move and their hearts beat as one man; if
something like this unity of purpose could be produced
among an equal number of media, what would be the
effect ? ” He wrote in reply : “ In a boat race they all have
one object in view {i.e.), that is, attaining a certain result,
and in doing that, the glory is or will be shared between
them. Now, with media it is different; instead of having
one common object in view, they each have a separate one,
and therefore they, like artists struggling for individual
reputations, are eager each to outshine the other. If it were
possible, and in the present state of things it does not appear
to be, to get a lot of media together with one object in view,
the glory and fame of which was to be shared equally
between them as in a boat-race, the effect would be simply
tremendous.” But this answer did not satisfy my doubts. I
still kept in mind the test with Williams and the weighing
machine. If the material of the body of the medium is
taken by the spirit in materialising, what an incongruous
mixture would be made in uniting the matter of several
media to give increased strength to the spirit. Reflect on
the differences of age, temperament, colour, condition, flesh
and blood, and bone and muscle, and all the other physio¬
logical conditions to be harmonised and amalgamated! This
seems like bringing the proposition to rather an absurd con¬
clusion. And then, too, take into consideration John
King’s statement that the spirit of the medium to a
certain extent entered the spirit or double—what a “mingling
of spirits.”
In my dilemma I consulted that most elevated authority it
has been my happy privilege to know, the high and holy
Glaucus. He wrote the following answer: “The idea thou
advanceth is erroneous ; there is no substance or solid matter
taken from a medium to make a form or to aid in materialising
one. It is simply a strength or power taken out from and
also about the medium. Again, when a form has been
materialised, it is not the spirit of the medium that enters
into that form, but simply the spirit of him or herself who
wishes to make him or herself known. For instance, my
form is prepared—I prepare it myself. Now, if the spirit of
the medium were to enter into that, how could it possibly be
me ?- If I come at all unto thee, 0 my son, I wish, by the
help of God, to come to thee in my own individual spirit, not
by the spirit of another. There is, most naturally, a some¬
thing which exists always between the medium and the spirit.
Now that something is—I know not how to make it clear
[ unto thee- after thy natural way, and I may say worldly way,
16
Jan. 10, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
of explanation—suffice it to say, however, that that something
does exist (or is in connection), which, for a better word, I
will call sympathy. It is simply a kind of magnetism, which
always, more or less according to those present at a material¬
ising seance, attracts the spirit then materialising towards the
medium. There is always that tendency to go back.
“As for the medium losing weight—mark this well—it is not
possible, as thou wilt see when they get their new test weigh¬
ing machine, unless it becomes tampered with by, evil spirits,
who will do all they can to lead them astray. I repeat tha,t
no material change can be made in a medium during mani¬
festations, the only change being that of losing power—a vital
power, the loss of which makes the poor medium utterly
powerless until that power has been restored. When I speak
of those present affecting the materialisation of a spirit, I
refer to the influence which they bring into the room with
them. Some persons bring good, and others bring bad
influences, and in a great measure it depends on the assistants,
as on the medium, whether the appearances are good or bad.
Again, when I speak of a going back, I do not mean a going
back to the medium; but on account of the great sensitiveness
of a materialised spirit there is always a tendency to de-
materialise. It is a sensitiveness that, up to the present time,
we have not been able to get over ; but I hope that the time
will come when we shall do so. I will detain thee no longer;
but we will go into this more together, acting in a right spirit
and mind, always hoping that our Almighty Father will guide
us, and that the presence of the most Holy Grhost may be
upon us, and then we shall get at much more, and explain
many things.”
Here I must leave the subject.
I send you the following photographs taken in the dark.
1. The medium entranced and the two “doubles.” On
calling John King’s attention to the fact that neither of these
doubles showed materiality in this photograph, the wall
appearing through both, he said that this arose from defect
of power, and in time he would do much better.
2. The |f doubles ” standing outside of the curtain.
3. The “ double T kneeling as described, and the shadow of
the other.
4. The portrait of “Akosus.”
The specimens of the “ doubles ” are, as I have explained,
imperfect. Eventually, I am confident I will have quite
finished and complete pictures of them. But I have thought
these would be interesting, “with all their imperfections on
their head.”
I have more than the reluctance of a private citizen,
unwilling to surrender himself in any form to the public,
to appear as a writer in a newspaper. But I am aware
that anonymous testimony carries with it neither responsibility
nor weight. Nevertheless, I realise sensibly that to present
as facts remarkable events, far out of the usual range of
experience and belief, is a very thankless mission, the almost
necessary effect of which is to subject one’s self to most un¬
desirable criticism and judgment. As it is, I give to the
public but a tithe of that which is given to me, and only when
I feel compelled to make known that which appears to be
useful and important.
It should be remembered that I come not to teach, but to
testify.
Paris, December 24, 1878.
I must to-day add a few words to the above. During the
tedious delay resulting in the photographs of “ the doubles,”
I was told that if I would have patience I would be rewarded
by the results. This promise was, it seems, only partially
performed in the production of “ the doubles;” yesterday and
to-day I have had gratifying supplements. In the photo¬
graphs heretofore taken, there has not been, at least with the
female spirits, complete resemblance between the forms appear¬
ing in the materialisation stances and those shown on the
cliches, and I have asked to have this corrected, even at
the expense of their beauty. Latterly I have alternated
materialisation seances with those for photographing, and the
appearances at the former have grown more and more perfect,
John King saying that they were making improving dis¬
coveries at each representation. Yesterday there were pre¬
sented the most real, graceful, and beautiful materialisations
I have yet witnessed, in all my experience, of several female
spirits, including “Angela; ” and to-day I have taken, by the
I usual process, in the dark, a vivid photograph of the radiant
! vision of ‘I Angela, ’ ’ as shown yesterday—I may say *' a
| speaking likeness.” The features are refined and delicate,
\ the eyes full of life, and the whole expression elevated,
| exquisite, and angelic. At the same time, so much of the
| medium sleeping on the couch as came within the scope of the
| camera is also shown on the plate.
December 28, 1878.
SUNDAY SPIRITUALISTIC SERVICES.
A correspondent writes :—
“ On Sunday evening, January 5th, Mr. J. William Fletcher delivered
| the first of a series of lectures upon ‘ The Religion of Spiritualism,’ at
| the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, London. The hall unfortunately
would seat but two hundred and fifty people, and at an early hour every
| seat was taken, so that at 7.45 p.m. the doors were closed, and many who
had come a long distance could not find admission. Although as a
| clairvoyant and test medium Mr. Fletcher is well known to many of the
leading Spiritualists of London, his power and gifts as a public speaker
I have not been called into action until the present moment. This would
seem surprising to those who have known him so well in the lecture
I field in America, where his talents were thoroughly appreciated; and
j it was only because of the urgent solicitations of his friends that he
consented to inaugurate and deliver the present course of lectures,
i “ The lecturer was ably introduced to the audience by Mr. Harrison
| Green, a gentleman who has devoted the best years of his life to the
I cause of Spiritualism, and who is known both here and in America as a
sincere and ardent worker. He congratulated the audience upon
having the opportunity of listening to so able a speaker as Mr.
Fletcher, who, upon being offered terms, had proffered his services
without price. He stated, further, the object of opening the present
course of lectures, viz., the free and unqualified utterance of the
teachings of Spiritualism, aud their dissemination to all who might care
to come. He said that whatever their creed, belief, or doctrine, they
were equally welcome; and if the immortality of the soul should be
proven to a single individual now walking in darkness, the efforts of
the speaker would not have been in vain; that the giving of the bread
of spiritual life free to all, without money and without price, has its
origin on the spiritual side, it being felt by the ministering spirits whom
God permitted to return to instruct mankind, and to remove the fear of
| death, that lectures delivered under such highly spiritual conditions
i could not fail to appeal to the hearts and highest aspirations of all, and
| in due season bring forth good fruit.
“ Mr. Green further stated that suitable arrangements were being
made to form a school for the education of young children, the details
of which would be made known at a subsequent meeting; and he
j endeavoured to impress upon his hearers the importance of lending
their aid to this vital and most interesting movement.
“Mr. Fletcher then began his address upon ‘The Religion of
Spiritualism,’ which for diction, deep thought, and clearness of expres-
j sion compares favourably with the efforts of our most prominent
speakers. He was listened to most attentively until the close of his
! lecture, which lasted nearly an hour, and subsequently was most
] heartily congratulated by his friends, as well as by strangers who were
j present.
“ The second of the series of lectures will be delivered on Sunday
j evening, January 12th, and those wishing for chairs should be at the
j hall at 7.30, as the doors are closed at 7.45 p.m., that no interruption
or inconvenience may arise to the audience or lecturer.’’
We have farther been informed that Mrs. Weldon efficiently
I aided in the singing.
; Mr. and Miss Dietz will commence their third series of recitations
I at the Langham Hall, Great Portland-street, London, on Wednesday
i evening next.
On Tuesday next the Council of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists will hold its usual monthly meeting at 38, Great Russell-street,
London.
Private Theatricals.—On Wednesday, 29th January, the National
I Association of Spiritualists will hold a special soiree and dramatic
| entertainment at 38, Great Russell-street, London, in aid of the funds
| of the Association. Several distinguished artistes will give their ser-
| vices on the occasion. Mrs. Edwin Ellis is taking an active part in the
| arrangement of the proceedings, and a remarkably lively entertain-
i ment is expected.
British Museum Lectures. — On Tuesday last the first of a
series of lectures in the Zoological Department, British Museum, was
given by Dr. Carter Blake. Commencing with the Ethnographical
i (Anthropological) room, he pointed out the earliest evidence of savage
customs, which showed three objects as desiderated by the savage—an
idol to worship, a jewel to decorate himself with, and a weapon to break
I his neighbour’s head. He went in considerable detail over the flints
from the drift, and from the Aquitaine bone caves; and then entered
into the resemblances and differences between the anthropoid apes and
man. The mammalian galleries were next considered, and the subjects
will be continued to-morrow (Saturday), and on Tuesday next, when
Professor Owen, C.B., F.R.S., is expected to make a few remarks in the
| Geological Department. The class, consisting of several ladies and
I gentlemen, expressed themselves much interested in the lecture. Tickets
for the remainder of the course can be procured of Miss Kislingbury,
j 38, Great Russell-street, London.
Jan. 10, 1879(
MR. LAMBELLE AT LADBROKE HALL.
BY ST; G-EORGB STOCK, M.A. - i (
At the end of my report of Mr. Lambelle’s Sunday evening dis- | (
course, which appeared in this week’s Spiritualist, I intimated, for j)
the benefit of any persons to whom the ideas therein set forth might ■!)
be new, that a clear and forcible statement of precisely the same line | (
of argument was to be found in a little book called The" Nature of i)
Spirit, by the Rev. Chauncy Giles, a Swedenborgian minister in j \
America. More than this I did not then feel it fair to say ; for though j (
my thoughts were forcibly recalled to that volume, which I had not ! j
opened for some years, I remembered that the ideas in question were j s
but the commonplaces of Swedenborgian doctrine, and that though j)
Mr. Lambelle might have derived aid from the Rev. Cbauncy Giles, :)
he might have derived it from many more as well. I)
Having returned home, however, I had yesterday the curiosity to j)
consult The Nature of Spirit, and I now find that the speech, which j j
I taxed a very bad memory to report, was, from beginning to end, an j l
audacious plagiarism from the pages of that book, terribly mauled j )
and mangled in the delivery. All that had escaped my memory at j)
the time of making my report I found duly present here ; and many i \
points which I had purposely omitted, from not having clearly appre- |)
hended the speaker’s drift, were here intelligibly and transparently n
expressed. The only change, in fact, was from the simple “ I ” of the 11
human author to the pompous “We” of the inspired orator. And |)
this miserable theft was pawned off upon us as a revelation from a j (
brighter world, the glories of which, we were patronisingly informed, 11
there was not time that evening to detail to us ! Of course the speech, j)
as reported by me from very rough notes taken on the blank page of a j \
hymn-book, is naturally a good deal altered and compret^ed. Never- j ?
theless the identity of Mr. Lambelle’s discourse with Lecture I. in ||
The Nature of Spirit will be abundantly manifest to the reader from ; j
the parallel passages which I subjoin :— - i /
Rev. Chauncy Giles. j)
If any one of you knew that you must sooner or later remove to i)
some remote country to spend the remainder of your life there, and I j
that you might be called upon at any moment to go, you could not ] s
remain indifferent to the nature of the country and to your own j)
situation when you arrived there. You would lose no opportunity for I)
personal inquiry ; you would read every book you could procure that j s
treated upon the subject; you would exhaust all the means in your ] j
power to learn where you were going and what your condition would i)
be when you had reached your new home. j \
Mr. Lambelle. j j
If you were about to emigrate to a foreign country you would not |)
display this lack of interest. You would buy every book from which i j
you could extract information, and you would eagerly seek opportunities j j
of conversing with those who had sojourned therein.
' Rev. Chauncy Giles. i)
I propose to give the answer of the New Church to the following 11
questions:—1. What is Spirit? 2. What is the Spiritual World ? j)
3. Where is it ? 4. What are its relations to this world ?
Mr. Lambelle. i j
There are three questions which present themselves to our con- j)
sideration to-night:—1. What is Spirit? 2. What is the nature of j(
the Spiritual World, and where is it ? 3. What are the relations that !)
exist between the Spiritual World and the Material ? j)
Rev. Chauncy Giles. ! j
Our doctrines teach us clearly and explicitly that spirit is a sub- j (
stance, and must necessarily have a form. There are material sub- i )
stances and spiritual substances, entirely distinct from each other, i )
Matter is not spirit, and spirit is not matter ; but both are real
substances. i j
Mr. Lambelle. \)
If spirit exist at all, it must be a substance. But when we say that j)
spirit is a substance, we are not saying that spirit is matter, or that !)
matter is spirit. j |
Rev. Chauncy Giles. j j
I do not use the term in any metaphysical sense. I use it in the i (
common meaning, as the material out of which, or from which, any I)
being, existence, or entity is formed. ,* i j
Mr. Lambelle. |)
Nor are we using the word “ substance ” in any abstruse meta- j i
physical sense. By substance ” we mean those essential qualities out [)
of winch any thing or entity is made up. i (
Rev. Chauncy Giles, ' I r
It is impossible for the mind to conceive of anything without form. } i
Let any one try to conceive of such a material thing, and he will see j \
how absurd it is. The very idea of conception implies form. An idea 1 s
is an image ; an idea, then, is a form. i)
Mr. Lambelle.
Try to imagine a world which has substance without form ! You !(
cannot frame any idea of it. For what is an idea but an image ? And j)
what is an image but a certain definite form ? j i
17
Rev. Chauncy Giles.
But are not all those guilty of this absurdity who talk of heaven as
a real place ; who think of the Lord as seated on a throne, surrounded
by saints and angels dressed in white robes, wearing golden crowns,
and playing on golden harps, and making “heaven’s wide arches ring”
with their hallelujahs; or writhing in the torments of hell, and filling
the dreary abodes of the lost with lamentation and woe ? Christians
delight to sing—
Sweet fields beyond the swelling flood
Stand drest in living green,
and yet, according to the theory, they have no substance and no form.
What kind of a field would that be which had no substance and no
form ?
Mr. Lambelle.
And yet how inconsistent is the language which your religion teaches
you ! All Christians believe in angels; they believe that the Lord
sits in heaven upon His throne ; they speak of the blessed as clothed
in white, with crowns on their heads, and playing on harps of gold;
and they draw a picture, too, the reverse of this, too doleful for us here
to contemplate, of souls tortured in fire for ever and ever—and all this
in a world where there is no substance, no shapes, no sizes, nothing !
What does the hymn say ?—
Sweet fields beyond the swelling flood
Stand dressed in living green.
What kind of fields are these that exist in a formless and insubstantial,
world ?
Rev. Chauncy Giles.
Now it may be, and sometimes is, objected to this view of the
spiritual world that it is only materialising it; attributing to it those,
qualities which this world possesses ; and, instead of a spiritual world,
by this process of reasoning, it is said we get only another material
world. This might be true if spiritual substances and objects had no
other qualities than material objects. But, as we shall see hereafter,
they have many qualities impossible to material objects, and they are
altogether superior.
Mr. Lambelle.
Perhaps it will be said that this is materialising the spirit world.
Well, it would be so if spirit were not a substance distinct from matter,
with subtler properties and a higher function.
Rev. Chauncy Giles.
I presume most persons think of heaven as above them, somewhere
in the realms of space. But if we should visit every planet and sun in
the material universe we should not find the spiritual world. We
should be no nearer to it than we are now. If it is some central sun,
it is material ami not spiritual. If it is in any particular place in the
realms of space, it must be material and not spiritual. Where, then,
is it ?
It is here, and it is everywhere around and within the material
universe. We are in the spiritual world now, though we are not con¬
scious of it. Our doctrines affirm that there are as many spiritual
w'orlds as there are material worlds, and that the spiritual world
corresponding to each planet is around it. So that every human being
in any world can. say, “ The spiritual world is here.”
Mr. Lambelle.
And now that we have spoken of the nature of the spirit world, we
shall be asked, “ Where is it ? Is it in some far-off region of space,
somewhere above us, in some planet or star ? ” No ; you might travel
for ever into space and never find it. To the question, “ Where is the
spirit world ? ” we answer, “ It is here.” You are in the spirit world
now as much as you will ever be, for around you and about you is the
spirit world; and around and about each material world there is an
envelope encircling and enfolding it, which is its spirit world ; so that
the inhabitants of each may say, “The spirit world is here.”
I might go on, but a regard for space warns me to stop, and enough
has already been done to strip this jackdaw of his borrowed plumes.
I may add that the next Sunday evening’s discourse at Ladbroke Hall
was in like manner derived from the second lecture of the Rev.
Chauncy Giles, on Man Essentially a Spiritual Being.
If any one will take the trouble of comparing my report in The
Spiritualist of December 27th with the first lecture in The Nature of
Spirit, he will see that even in the ground I have traversed there are
far more resemblances than have been brought out, as I have in no
case had recourse to lacunce to bring scattered parallelisms together,
but have contented myself with citing a few continuous passages. lu
conclusion, it is only fair to Mr. Lambelle to acknowledge that his
memory is far more retentive than mine, and that some slight variations
that may be observed on the original are due rather to my reporting
than to his delivery.
8, Museum Villas, Oxford, December 28, 1878.
Eternal Punishment.—No Spiritualist, so far as we know, believes
in the doctrine of eternal punishment, which is considered a foul libel
on the Almighty. The Spiritual Reporter of Manchester says that the
Rev. Canon Farrar declares his disbelief in what he describes as the
vulgar notions of a material and eternal hell, for which he makes St.
Augustine responsible. He says that the revisers of the Bible will
wholly fail in their duty if they allow the words “ damnation,” “ hell,”
and “eternal” to appear in the new version. Such is the present
state of feeling in England that no one, as yet, has challenged his state*
ment.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 10, 1879.
IS
PROPHECY AND MORALITY.
BY CAPT. B. F. BURTON, F.R.G.S.
With the Cassandra-like previsions of England’s decline
and fall, which have been so common of late, it is curious to
compare the prophecies of Margaretha Stoffell, of Ehrenthiel,
Tyrol. They were, you probably know, delivered on Christmas
Day, 1847, and, under the title of NineYears of the Future^ were
republished at Philadelphia. The subject-matter is supposed
to have been the French Revolution of 1848 ; but what con¬
cerns us far more is the following allusion to England:—
“ In Great Britain the distress of the working classes will
increase continually. Great Britain, the world-mistress of
commerce, will receive a shock from which she will never
recover. Her great possessions in America and Asia will
declare themselves independent; her fleets will be annihi¬
lated in a great sea-fight; and after many vicissitudes, foreign
wars, and domestic revolutions, she will again become
tranquil, but will not be any more powerful than other
nations.”
These and other dismal visions may come to pass, but we
will do our best to prevent the catastrophe. A far higher
inspiration than that of the Stoffell teaches us that England
has nothing to fear except from herself. There are some
ifs” attaching to such condition. If politicians would
think a little more of u patria” and less of party,
financiers and capitalists would not show up profitless
speculations by reckless advances. If manufacturers would
cease to flood foreign markets with shoddy and mildew, ff
merchants would remember the times when an Englishman’s
word was as good as his bond, ff the mechanic would
return to the golden rule of a fair day’s work for a fair wage.
If the labourer would cease to use every art for shortening
work and lengthening pay. And, lastly, if employers of
labour would remember that tjie labourer is worthy of his
hire.
What England wants is a moral reform. Whilst clerical¬
ism is sterilising the popular mind, whilst a fettered t( free-
trade” is attacking the national finances, and whilst insane
strikes are tearing out the very vitals of industry, there is
too much eating, too much drinking, too much “ pleasuring.”
We must return to the simple mode of life of those who
made England what she is, and—
Nought shall make us rue
If England to itself do rest but true.
Athenaeum Club, January 2nd, 1879.
A TEST SEANCE.
Last Wednesday night a test stance took place at the
house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street,
Grosvenor-square, London. Mr. Rita was the medium.
The guests, holding each other’s hands, sat in the dark for
manifestations in the following order:—Mr. Rita, Mr. W. A.
Mayne, of the Junior Carlton Club; Mrs. Showers, Mr. J. A.
Campbell, of Cambridge University; Miss Ross, Mr. F. W.
Percival, M.A. (Oxon) ; Mr. W. H. Harrison, the Yen.
Archdeacon Dunbar, Miss Mattie Houghton, Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory, and Mrs. Wiseman, of 1, Orme-square,
Bays water, London.
Thus, all through the sitting, Mr. Rita was held by Mrs.
Wiseman on the one side of him, and Mr. Mayne on the
other, off his own premises, in Mrs. Gregory?s drawing¬
room, which is high above the street, on the first floor of
the house. The room has but one door; it was. locked at
request before the seance by Archdeacon Dunbar, who kept
the key in his pocket. The guests sat round the table with
their hands interlinked, each sitter being thus responsible
to the public for his two neighbours, although from the
character of the company such stringent conditions were
altogether unnecessary.
Under these conditions, four chairs were piled almost
noiselessly upon the little table in the centre of the sitters ;
one of them was a heavy arm-chair. A fourth chair was
hooked around the neck of Mr. Mayne, and a fifth placed
upon the head of Mrs. Showers. The chairs were placed in
position almost as noiselessly as snow-flakes,but whenever they
were supposed to be moving, a sitter asked (by previous per¬
mission and desire of the medium, who said that he preferred
good evidence to bad) whether Mr. Mayne and Mrs. Wise-
i| man were at that moment holding his hands. They invariably
I replied “ Yes,” and that from first to last they never
I released his hands.
There were attempts on the part of the spirits to mate-
| rialise. Once a broad phosphorescent-looking light, about
| eight inches long, seen by everybody, floated from the table
| to near the ceiling, but no spirit face was distinctly seen.
Nearly an hour elapsed before the manifestations began,
j showing that some unknown impediment was present which
| the spirits had to overcome.
A HIGHLAND CORONACH.
BY J. A. CAMPBELL.
These lines are an attempt to give to by sound of words,
and the emotions expressed by them, some remote idea of
| the wailing intensity of the Highland 11 Coronach,” or
I lament for the dead, that music which above all others is
| tender, and piteous, and deep, like nothing else that I
I have ever heard, true symbol of the spiritual rank in the
scale of created things of those Children of the Mist, whom
| modern culture affects to despise, and modern “ progress ”
I endeavours to exterminate, since the innermost life of a man
is shown forth, as well as perfected through suffering. The
words came tome at a time when the playing of one of these
coronachs had recalled in its bitterness a recent grief, to
11 which the kind “ guiding power ” thus allowed me to give
I expression, and so find relief.
The form it has taken is a lament for Black Donald, of
j Barbreck, a fair boy murdered, tradition tells us, by a false
j friend at the Cross of Blood, a spot still marked by its
| barrenness, on the green slope of a hill near my father’s
I house.
| A HIGHLAND MOTHER’S DIRGE FOR HER CHILD FOULLY SLAIN.
(j Oh for Donald! oh and ay!
[ | Oh the dark and angry day:
j j When you pass the Cross of Blood
11 That stands above the road
j At Kintra,
| Forget not to pray,
(j For the soul that passed away:
i Oh the drearie, eerie day
| That I saw.
j j He was bonny, he was young;
(i Oh the day, and oh the song—
11 4 The lonesome song that I sing,
i i While the wild mountains ring
m With my wail.
]) | Oh the false friend that came,
] ( i Oh the hated, hated name,
| | Oh the cunning, stunning shame
j |! Of the tale.
I Oh the calf * of my heart,
Oh the sun that shared the part—
The part that was the strongest,
The fullest and the longest,
Of my love.
Oh the kindness that he gave
To the traitor and the knave;
Oh the bloody, muddy grave,
Of my dove.
Oh, ill-omed purple heather,
O’er which they went together,
Their arms entwined so tight,
In the chill and frosty night,
I Foe and friend;
With his long hair streaming,
His dark eyes gleaming—
One beaming, one seeming,
God the end!
I will throw on thee a stone, f
No more, no more than one;
And with it I will throw
Myself, my joy and woe,
With my grief.
Woe is me for my moving,
That goes for a proving;
Some day may bring me soothing
And relief.
Next Sunday evening, at the service before Mr. J. W. Fletcher’s
inspirational address at the Cavendish Rooms, London, Miss C. Leslie
Younge will take an active part in the musical proceedings. Mr.
Harrison Green will preside.
* A Highland expression of fondness.
t A stone of remembrance was in the old days cast by each passer-by on the cairn piled
over a grave.
ID
Jan. 10, 1879.
THE STItllTUALIST*.
foetrg.
GOD FORGETS NOT HIS POOR.
Heavily falls the drifting snow
On the patient earth below,
And in heaven the angels stand,
Looking on the stricken land.
Well they know that waiting there,
Weary souls are bow’d with care,
Shiv’ring from the bitter cold,
Wrapped in garments, tattered, old,
Stain’d with ceaseless labour’s soil,
Foodless, fireless, spent with toil,
Faint, with flick’ring, gasping breath,
Stiffen slowly to their death.
Fathers, gaunt and livid pale ;
Mothers, with the tiny, frail
Forms of infants, hushing prest,
Vainly, to a hung’ring rest;
Children shudd’ring, at their play,
Into lifeless lumps of clay—
From harsh Nature’s empty breast
Dropping into God’s sweet rest.
Ah ! how softly falls the snow,
Bringing peace to earth below!
Peace of Death—God's tender hush,
Coming in the snow’s swift rush !
Catherine Woodforde.
December 24th, 1878.
©orreaponnence.
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents,who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
he returned; copies should he kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.]  
A SEANCE AT CAPE TOWN.
Sir,—The reports which have reached us of the exposures in England,
and the possibility that other mediums produced their manifestations by
similar means, naturally tended to lower both private and public
opinion of Spiritualism. But, bearing in mind the full value of evidence
and testimony, we wish to place on record the remarkable and wondrous
manifestations witnessed by ourselves on the evening of Sunday,
November 10th, at the residence of our friend, Mr. Berks T. Hutchin¬
son, surgeon dentist, No. 2, New-street, Cape Town. Coming from
this distant land, the results may be of interest to those who know Mr.
Eglinton as a medium, and may serve to make others pause before
accepting reports against mediums which are more readily accepted
than substantiated.
When the reports from Amsterdam reached this town, the local
papers, of course, made the most of them, and were not choice in their
expressions about the deceivers and the deceived. Some Spiritualists
even wavered in their belief; but the seance now described has served
to bind them together more firmly than before. Mr. Eglinton had
ceased to be a professional medium, and was not in any way identified
with our society. It was proposed to ask him to give a seance, on pur¬
pose to make known if he produced his materialisations as these
exposers would have us believe. Not that we doubted him, for he had
been giving stances with unvarying success ever since he landed here,
and his demeanour, candour, and honesty had much endeared him to
us. We kept our purpose entirely quiet, and not until the circle (a
select party of Spiritualists) had met, and the medium arrived, did we
place our object before him.
We desired that a committee of three should search him, at which he
at first demurred, but when we explained that it was the wish of his
guides that we should do so, he immediately consented. The room
was thoroughly scrutinised, and we aver that there were no cupboards
or carpets to conceal any such articles as were described in The Spirit¬
ualist of September 20th, and the most rigid search failed to reveal any¬
thing concealed on his person. Thecabinet was very simply formed, by
suspending two curtains made of black silesia across a corner of the
room, the walls of which are very solid, and the floor uncarpeted, and
without trap doors. The medium, never leaving our sight, retired into
the cabinet, seating himself on a chair provided for the purpose. The
sitters, sixteen in number, were arranged in the form of a double horse¬
shoe around the cabinet. Shortly after a prayer had been offered and a
beautiful voluntary played on the harmonium by our organist, the tall
and graceful form of Abdullah was seen in strong gaslight, and clothed
in a profusion of snowy drapery, his sparkling jewels flashing out to us
the scintillating rays of light. He bowed gracefully to the sitters, came
out from the cabinet, and walked close up to us. He is apparently five
or six inches taller than Mr. Eglinton, slight in figure, with only one
arm, and of wholly different physique to the medium.
Next there appeared in front of the cabinet a small portion of white
drapery, and above it a head. It was most strange and weird-like to see
nothing but an apparently human head moving about. Very soon two
hands materialised, and, taking hold of the white drapery, commenced
shaking it out, a voice keeping up an animated conversation all the time.
Gradually the mass of drapery grew more profuse, and we noticed that
the head then placed itself upon a neck, which soon connected itself
with a body, rising, as it were, out of the drapery. It was the form of
our dear friend and worker “ Joey,” who remarked, “ There, that’s the
way I build myself up.” Thus he appeared, formed seemingly out of
nothing, in the light, and without the slightest attempt at concealment
or mystification, thus solving, to our most unbounded satisfaction, one of
the grandest and most momentous problems of the nineteenth century.
Joey’s form is wholly unlike that of the sensitive, being smaller,
slighter, and of weaker physique altogether. The next form was that
of a tall, graceful, good-looking lady, clothed from head to foot in a
flowing garment, not unlike a fine India mull muslin, and very different
in texture to that of the preceding figures. She moved out of the
cabinet, and was plainly seen by all, and clearly recognised by several
as a Miss Georgina Handley, formerly a sister of mercy in this town.
The fourth figure proved to be that of a male, stepping out immediately
after the last figure. He was recognised as the father of one of the
sitters, and the loved husband of another. A marvellous manifestation
now took place, for, after bowing to the sitters, he retired to the
cabinet, and with the aid of another male spirit, brought the
medium right out of the cabinet into full view of the sitters, so
that the medium and two male spirits toere distinctly seen at the same
time. They then took Mr. Eglinton back again to the cabinet, and
throwing back the curtains showed him reclining in his chair deeply
entranced. The curtains closed on these marvels, and almost instantly
the petite form of “ Lily,” the much-loved and last plucked flower of
our friend Mr. Hutchinson, came into the circle, and, in childlike con¬
fidence, placed her tiny hand on the knee of one of the sitters, and
looked up into his face with the touching appeal of “ Do you know
me?” On her retiring, another female figure appeared of medium
height, with flowing garments and light hair, but only for a moment, and
was instantly recognised as the sister of a sitter. The difference
between this figure and that of Miss Handley was striking, one being
tall, with somewhat dark hair ; the other considerably shorter and
fairer. Six forms had already appeared, yet our friends had not quite
done, for suddenly Abdullah drew aside the curtain, and we witnessed
the wondrous phenomenon of l< Lily ” retiring apparently into the form
of Miss Handley, who in turn retired into the body of our much-
beloved and faithful medium, followed instantly by the disappearance of
Abdullah; and thus ended the most marvellous manifestation of power
and conclusive evidence of spirit presence and identity yet seen in
Southern Africa. Let who will deny these facts, there they remain, and
if the evidence of sixteen respectable, intelligent, and sane persons,
who would unhesitatingly expose trickery (were it possible), is of any
value, then we say we have scored a triumph which no amount of deceit
or fraud can ever undo.
That this report is correct we affirm and declare, as witness our
signatures:—
Berks T. Hutchinson,
Carrie J. Hutchinson,
Helene Otto,
M. F. Kohler,
George Silver,
E. Hahmick,
F. Williams,
J. F. Marshall,
E. Kingsch,
S. T. Marchant.
Cape Town, South Africa, Dec. 3rd, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM IN .HACKNEY.
Sir,—“ The Hackney Psychological Society,” 6, Field Yiew-terrace,
London-fields, E., has changed its title to “The Hackney Spiritual
Evidence Society.”
C. R. Williams, Hon: Sec.
December 30th, 1878.
PSYCHOGRAPHIC PICTURES.
Sir,—In complying with a request to aid in obtaining subscriptions
for the purchase of Mr. Coleman’s collection of “ psychographic pic¬
tures,” with a view to presentation to the British National Association
of Spiritualists, perhaps you will, with your usual kindness, permit me
to appeal through your columns for the generous co-operation of
Spiritualists and friends.
The collection is a unique one of its kind, and, from the very interest¬
ing history associated therewith, should most certainly be preserved
intact to adorn the walls of the National Association, as suggested by
Mr. Charles Blackburn, one of the subscribers. The collection is offered
at the price of £75, and Spiritualists, especially members of the British
National Association, will, I trust, respond promptly and liberally, so
as to secure so desirable an addition to the property of that Association.
Miss Kislingbury, the secretary of the Association, or the writer of this
letter will be happy to receive and acknowledge any subscriptions
which your readers may feel disposed to contribute towards this object.
Thomas Blyton.
53, Sigdon-road, Hackney downs, London, E.,
30th Dec., 1878.
AN IMPROMPTU HOME SEANCE.
Sir,—I send a word of encouragement to private investigators of
Spiritualism. The following unexpected and interesting phenomena
occurred yesterday, December 16th, as I was seated at my fireside,
between three and four o’clock. The blinds were drawn down, and a
lamp burning on the table on account of the fog. My mother and a
young person who is a trance medium were also present. I was reading
in The Times the various extracts from sermons preached in allusion to
the death of the dearly-beloved Princess Alice, and when I came to
an extract from the one delivered by the Rev. F. White (one of Her
Majesty’s chaplains) I read aloud, being much struck by his observa¬
tion, as follows:—
“For such a life the words of Archbishop Trench must have a deep
meaning :
The joys, the tasks of earth,
The same in heaven shall be ;
Only the narrow brook
Is widened to the sea.”
To our great surprise loud and expressive raps came on the table. I
went on reading as follows :—
“ The passing away of dear and honoured lives is not a passage from
life to death, but from life to a higher life; from love to a deeper love;
20
Jan. 10, 1870
THE SPIRITUALIST.
from broken communions on earth to unbroken fellowship in heaven.
Believing this we accept the thought so exquisitely expressed by Lord
Lytton.”
I observed, “Lord Lytton is a Spiritualist; and judgingfrom the beau- j
tiful sentiments expressed by the Rev. G. White, I should think that he is j
decidedly favourable to it in its higher aspects.” Three loud raps
came on the table immediately. And on my reading the following j
beautiful quotation from the pen of Lord Lytton, the spirits rapped i
enthusiastically as I proceeded, and the whole time:—
There is no death. The stars go down
To rise upon some fairer shore ;
And bright in Heaven’s jewelled crown
They shine for evermore.
There is no death. An angel form
Walks o’er the earth with silent tread,
And bears our best loved things away, I
And then we call them dead.
I asked if they would rap again for us if I read them over once more? |
They replied in the affirmative. They this time rapped both on the I
table and carpet, although not quite so loudly as before. I have had !
some very interesting experiences in my home circle, which I shall be
glad to relate at a future opportunity, if found acceptable for the pages
of The Spiritualist. Marianne. |
2, Scarsdale Villas, Kensington, W.
MATTER AND SPIRIT. [ ( j
Sir,—Perhaps “mediums” may be considered hors de combat in the j \ i
discussion relative to matter and spirit; and whether things or beings j |!
spiritual, if visible or tangible, are not to be considered as material as if 1
matter* A medium’s experience may not be considered admissible, nor, i (j
at the same time, may ideas inspired, or given directly by spirits (so- m
called), through speech or writing, be thought acceptable, or reliable as j) j
facts demonstrated by science. Such ideas would be relegated, probably, j (!
to the domain of the imagination, and be classed under the heads of j j j
delusion, ecstasy, or mere mental impression. Mediums, in reality, ] j
are rarely scientific, but always intuitional—which is a shorter road to j j
knowledge, or rather, the spirit’s direct road. Also have they senses | / j
developed, as certain and trustworthy to them as the five senses called i j
material: the senses of the spiritual body or organism within the j j j
natural, which, opened to the spirit-world, perceive by sight, hearing, j) |
taste, and touch the things of that world. j j
Swedenborg, the greatest medium known to modern Christian nations, |! j
called the things and beings of the spirit-world “substantial;’’ and, j j
indeed, it is a substantial world, being a world of substances, and a real | (j
and solid world (to its inhabitants), but of substances so attenuate to jj
the grosser senses of our bodies as to be imperceptible to them.
Science must one day come to acknowledge that the spiritual or inner 1 (i
world is the core, soul, or life-origin of this external world. There is a j j j
power of human intercommunion between the two worlds ; and there is j j j
also the possibility of mortals becoming so spiritualised, or lifted so (|
completely above the flesh and the delusions of the bodily senses, as to !) |
live, as it were, within the two worlds at one and the same time. Their I (]
spiritual senses are opened to the sights, sounds, odours, tastes, and I \ I
sensations of that world ; if not always perfectly so, at times when in j j j
particular conditions (the body laid asleep or subdued to feel nothing) | j ]
the spirit, or inner being perfectly senses the things of the spirit-world, i j i
A state which all who have experienced it consciously will join me in ) I
saying is truly delightful—a foretaste of the eternal heritage of the ; \ j
uplifted human spirit. | > |
An inhabitant of this inner world of ethereal substances is, then, both j / i
tangible and visible to an inhabitant of our more external world of I (j
grosser substances, when such individual has had the superior senses of j ) I
his spiritual body opened to perceive the things of the spirit-world. He j | j
becomes cognisant of substantial, real existences, or objects, which if • (j
matter, are not, to our ideas, the dense matter we are familiar within jj
our lower plane of existence. Spirit, or life, envelopes itself in sub- j (j
stance, which becomes at length the coarser, denser, and, to our senses, j j j
more solid matter which forms our world. The spirits seen by clair- ! ) I
voyants are those individuals clothed in substantial bodies, for no eye | < I
can behold spirit as it is in itself. We see the individual spirits in j | j
their substantial spiritual bodies; and we see the objects of their world ! ) j
also of substance, devoid of individual spirit, if I may so term it.
The more intellectual inhabitants of the inner world are acquainted j j I
with the secret forces of the universe, by which they may operate ] (j
invisibly, and apparently creatively, upon the plane of our outer world, j ()
Hence they produce effects which to us seem marvellous. Individuals i j j
in the gross bodies of men on earth may, by the complete subjugation j j j
of the flesh, rise into superior conditions of the spirit, and also exercise | j j
powers marvellous to beings of a more contracted sphere of existence. i) |
We seem to forget in talking of spirits that they are individuals ! (I
clothed in bodies of substance. In casting off at death the clothing of j>]
flesh the soul does not stand naked, but clothed in an ethereal robing of, j) j
perhaps, a finer flesh, impalpable to earthly senses. At our seances for j < j
the materialisation of spirits, as it is called, our etherial visitors pass j j j
through a process of solidifying, or coarsening, of their impalpable, I) |
substantial perisprits, or spiritual bodies ; and in so doing there is a i (j
dependence upon the medium, as upon a basis, also upon individuals 1:1 j
forming the circle and the life-power and substances of the medium’s j j!
body are so drawn upon as to cause a sensible diminution of his size j (I
and weight. Besides which, mediums forming a part of the circle feel j S i
the sensation of being drawn upon, and in some cases experience | j i
excessive prostration of vitality and strength, from which they do not j i
recover for periods of twenty-four hours or more. I H
Spirit is, indeed, invisible: its manifestations only may be seen in j j j
the works of God, and, on a lower plane, in the works of man. j) ]
Is it possible for the operations of the Eternal Divine Spirit to be
projected to the cognisance of lower beings except by and through the
medium of substance ?
I am simply a “ medium,” and do not pretend to science; but this is
what I am taught by some inhabitants of the inner, higher world.
Catherine Woodforde.
90, Great Russell-street, December 19th, 1878.
THE ASSISTANT-SECRETARYSIHP OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—While most fully admitting and appreciating the kind intentions
manifested towards me in a little paragraph concerning me in your issue
of January 3rd, I cannot help thinking that the three friends mentioned
are starting on an entirely wrong basis. For the past year I have been
Miss Kislingbury’s private secretary; but it seems to me that if the
Association really desires to retain my services in the future, it is for
the Association officially to set about obtaining funds for that purpose,
and not to allow a few kind friends to start a private subscription list,
which may only result in placing us all in a very awkward position.
Suppose the appeal to be successful, the Council of the British National
Association of Spiritualists will still have a perfect right to say, “We
know nothing of all this, and we do not require Miss Burke any more.”
What could any one do then? And unless employed officially by the
Council, or privately by Miss Kislingbury, I do not see what possible
position I could hold. I should imagine that all officials in any society
must be chosen by the governing body, and that individual members or
friends have no right to employ a secretary without the sanction and
approval of the Council. Therefore if the Association thinks it useful
or desirable for me to remain here still, it is for the Council to take
action, and not let the question, which is entirely a public one, sink into
a matter of private kindness to me—kindness which, on its present
footing, it would be utterly impossible for me to accept.
  C. A. Burke.
the' religious aspects of spiritualism.
Sir,—I am glad that so many of your correspondents have done me
the honour to notice my letter on the above subject, for I was anxious
to learn how others viewed that which is to me of such absorbing
interest.
I must apologise to Mr. Stainton-Moses for having misquoted him.
I wrote down his words, as I understood them, at the meeting. On
searching for them in the report of his paper I missed them, and sup¬
posed them to be in that portion of it which remains, I hope, to be
published. Nevertheless, I do not find that the substitution of “ whole”
for “sole” at all affects my argument. Whether certain views consti¬
tute a man’s whole or sole religion is much the same in effect. But I
dislike inaccuracy, and am glad to be corrected.
My friend Mr. Fitz-Gerald, whose words are always welcome as they
are wise, has a little misunderstood my use of the word “ Satanic.” I
tried to avoid the old-fashioned “ devil,” but I find that I have fallen
out of the frying-pan into the fire. I should have said, “ Whatever in
us or to us is of evil.” This must often differ with the individual.
What at my particular stage of progress or training may be a tempta¬
tion and a cause for sin, may be perfectly harmless, even good, in another.
In the old-world story, it was not the eating of the apple, per se, which
constituted an offence, but the act of disobedience; doing that which
was forbidden by One in authority—the contravention of a higher law,
accepted as such.
Madame de Steiger is surprised that I should doubt the value of
Spiritualism. I do not doubt it; I only wish to estimate it rightly. To
me Spiritualism has been a boon of priceless value; it has been so to
thousands, and doubtless will be to thousands more. I quite believe
that “ God reveals Himself in many ways,” often very strange ways;
but it does not follow that the same voice which calls a person into
Spiritualism, in order that he may learn its wonderful facts and lessons,
should not also call that person out of it again, when his state requires
other treatment or training. Spiritualism came to me in a time of great
spiritual darkness, and it has been to me a great spiritual illuminator.
It has not only shown me its own facts, but it has acted as a key by
which to interpret other facts. It has gone with me into the churches,
and has illuminated what some have called “ worn-out creeds and
dogmas.” It has done for me as the Spirit of the Lord did for the
prophet Ezekiel in the valley of bones—it has made the dry hones live
again. To me, seeing what I now see, it would be an evil to rest in
Spiritualism as an end, and I cannot help seeing that there are others to
whom it has been an evil because they have so rested. I felt bound to
raise a note of warning, but I despise none. I would only help those in
my turn who have helped me. God provides for all, as Mrs. Nicholls
has said, but He leaves it to us to use the means (or not to use them)
which He provides.
One word as to Mr. Fitz-Gerald’s “ facts.” I hope I am not slow to
appreciate the beauties of creation, and of the laws by which it is sus¬
tained. None, perhaps, can love them more than I do. A singing bird,
a sitting hen, a hedgerow in April, a newly-turned sod with its wonders
of insect life, a neglected dirt-heap even, in a country lane, where you
are sure to find the finest dandelions and silver-weeds, are to me sources
of never-failing, never-ending delight.
But there are also facts which do not tend to edification. A pesti¬
lential sewer is a fact, important enough to engage the interest of
chemists and deodorists, and the attention of a town council, but it will
be clearly their duty to see that it remains a fact no longer. Even in
that case, Mr. Fitz-Gerald may say, the recognition of the fact was the
thing. I quite agree. But we are here on other ground from that on
which I started in my first letter. There are two orders of facts, those
of material nature and those of the spirit. With which of these are
we Spiritualists engaged f and which order do we seek ? Let each find
21
Jan. 10,1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
his own answer. I believe I have found mine, hut I cannot fit it on to
another’s question. That is not my business.
Before concluding, allow me, sir, as Mr. Stainton-Moses has done, to
thank those many kind friends whose letters, published and private, on
the subject we have been discussing, have been written in the spirit of
true friendship and courtesy, as well as in love for the cause of truth;
I should be sorry to leave any under the impression that I think
Spiritualism an evil. I think it only insufficient for certain needs, and
that it points to more than it embraces. It is a sign-post to the goal,
but not the goal itself. Emily Kislingbury.
38, Great Russell-street, January 3rd, 1879.
Sir,—I ought not to occupy your space till this correspondence is
done. But I wish to express my great satisfaction at reading the
letters in your last issue. I believe them to be a very valuable contri¬
bution to the philosophy of Spiritualism.
There are words in the letters of Madame de Steiger, Mrs. Nicholls,
and Mr. Fitz-Gerald that I am thankful to see in print.
I am afraid I aip more in accord with Dr. Blake’s manner than with
his matter. I feel this so completely that I do not enter into any verbal
argument. I can only recognise the absolute divergence of thought, and
express my profound astonishment that the experience of five-and-
twenty years should have led him to the impotent conclusion that
“ Spiritualism offers only a number of physical facts in which he does
not see any moral bearing whatsoever.”
Turning from what would be mere waste of time to argue to some¬
thing more profitable, may I put a few propositions in the shape of
queries ?
1. If we were to define what we mean by Spiritualism, would not a
good deal of fog lift ?
2. If we were to separate between what we know and what we
believe, would it not tend to clearness ?
3. If we were to separate between what we, in our own experience,
know, and the deductions therefrom derived, and the prescriptions of
tradition, would not that tend to clear the atmosphere ?
4. Within certain easily defined cases, are not the divergent views of
honest investigators only so many individual views of the same truth,
views which advanced knowledge will enable us to recognise and
reconcile ?
5. And for my own instruction, I should like to ask Miss Kisling-
bury what authority she has for saying that “ immortality has to be won
by hard fighting with the powers of this world ? ”
Any further comments I request your permission to reserve.
W. Stainton Moses, M.A.
Sir,—Miss Kislingbury’s earnest letter has had this good result,
that it has called forth many earnest responses.
For myself, I believe that the phenomena and philosophy of
Spiritualism are destined to re-mould science, philosophy, psychology,
and religion from their very foundations, by showing how a spiritual
and intelligent force constitutes the essence of all things.
The power to move matter by will, and without the intervention of
mechanism, demonstrates the intelligent spiritual nature of man; while
the spiritual phenomena which occur in the presence of believers can
in five minutes refute the material philosophy of thousands of years.
Beyond this, the higher philosophy of Spiritualism reveals the
structure of the human soul, and thus becomes the only scientific
psychology.
The mere knowledge of the facts of Spiritualism cannot save the
soul ; but true Spiritualism can show how the soul is saved as a
psychological and scientific fact.
When Spiritualists proceed further to speak of Spiritualism as a
new religion, they utter that which to me has no meaning. The
essence of all religion is one and identical. It is the cry of the soul
after its hidden centre and its Lord—as the child cries for its mother,
or, “ As the hart panteth after the waterbrooks.”
There may be those who in Spiritualism find a new sect, or a new
superstition ; but to discover a new religion would be as impossible as
to find a new God.
Spiritualism, as it demonstrates man to be a spirit, at the same time
demonstrates the fact of a spiritual life hereafter. But the immense
majority of human beings require no such demonstration, as ninety-
nine in a hundred instinctively believe, and are assured that there is a
future life.
Swedenborg and Spiritualism certainly show good reasons for
believing that our future life will be the exact counterpart of this life,
and that we shall occupy a position there in exact relation to our
works here.
But Christianity also teaches the same when it says, “ Shall not the
Lord render to every man according to his works,” and “ One star
differeth from another star in glory,” and “ To whom much is given, of
him shall much be required,” and “ He who knew not shall be beaten
with few stripes.”
Moreover, modern Spiritualism cannot be a new religion, inasmuch
as the whole Bible is full of Spiritualism, and the Boman Church has
never ceased to exemplify this in the lives of her saints.
Protestantism has laughed to scorn these spiritual claims of the
Romish Church, but modern Spiritualism proves that these claims are
founded on facts.
The Romish St. Teresa was a saint and prophetess, but so also was
the Lutheran Seeress of Prevorst. The spiritual teachings of both are
identical, and their lives were equally pure and given to God; but
St. Teresa worshipped more the Supreme, while the Seeress gave
herself chiefly to spiritual philosophy and to the benefaction of her
race.
The simple doctrine of the love of God and the love of man taught
by Christ as the sum and substance of all religion and morality cannot
be surpassed, and can be understood by all; but the hidden and
| esoteric doctrine of Christ can be understood, by those only who hold
the mystical key, and in this respect the Romish Church is wiser than
i Protestantism. I admit this, but let no one suppose from this
| admission that a true Spiritualist, to whom had been revealed the
secret of the Logos, could ever find it necessary to enter that Church,
I or that he could regard, except with horror, his subjugation to a priest¬
hood which, asserting that it holds the keys of the kingdom of heaven,
I too often, alas ! has used those keys only to shut the door, neither
| going in itself, “ nor suffering them who are entering to go in.”
The true Spiritualist requires no such priesthood, but for him it is
! sufficient, when he discovers that all his past life he has been “ feeding
on the husks which the swine do eat,” to say, “ I will arise and go to
my Father,” for he then experiences “ the glorious liberty of the chil-
| dren of God.” Even the Popish St. Teresa, when in her highest
ecstacies she became united to Christ and thus found that she was one
with God actually, shows the utter impertinence of all priestly inter¬
ference ; and she could thus in the magnificent language of St. Paul
say, “ Neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor
powers, nor things present, nor. things to come, nor height, nor depth,
j nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of
! God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.” George Wyld, M.D.
j I Sir,—Mr. Carter Blake has proved the strange want of oneness of
i | religious belief in the supposed compact body called Spiritualists. This
) | has arisen from the physical phenomena, directly and indirectly Spirit-
( I ualistic, attracting minds from the various divisions of theology and no
Vi theology, which endeavour to dovetail their new experiences with their
| | old opinions ; and in proportion to their lack of historical knowledge, so
j i is the extent of their surmisings and readiness for pen and voice utter-
j | ances—utterances which show their ignorance; but the tall talk chills
) i the inclinations of plodding, studious men to associate with, or appear
j i to countenance, a Spiritualism so untrue in historical accuracy,
j | Therefore it is that so many who were Spiritualists publicly have
) | passed from public view into the privacy of church life—a life where
j j worship, praise, and thanksgiving are given to the Lord God Almighty
) | without wrangling, and enable them to devote themselves quietly to the
) ! ordinary everyday duties of this preliminary life. This result is sad,
j [ as Spiritualism ought to be sacredly used as leaven, to leaven the atoms
j i of materiahstic human life in the barrel of human society.
) I If I were to give my advice how to effect the most good in the
| i shortest time, it would be—speak, write, prove that knowledge has been
j | given to many, and may be had by many more ; that there is continued
| | human life after the close of this preliminary life, in a state of joy to
| some, and of sorrow to others, depending entirely on the mannerism of
) i heart-life now in action in each mind. If sectional religious surmisings
11 were avoided by Spiritualists, Spiritualism would speedily become a
) | national power. J. Enmore Jones.
| j Enmore Park, S.E.  
| Sir,—In Miss Kislingbury’s admirable letter in your impression of
j the 27th inst., there are some things “ hard to be understood,” and re-
: j | specting them I should like a clearer explanation. Miss Kislingbury
11 j speaks of those who “ think that immortality is theirs by right, not that
j) j it has to be won by hard fighting with the powers of this world.” I
! i | may be wrong, but it has always been my impression that the laziest
i 11 rascal that ever crawled through the world is as sure of immortality as
i) : the most struggling, dauntless hero that ever conquered the temptations
j ] I of the “ flesh and the devil.” The difference between these two
I) | personages—the lazy man and the industrious saint—is not in the fact
j) j of their immortality, but in the degree of elevation to which they will
| ] i respectively attain hereafter.
; I Again, your correspondent recommends that the subject of Spirit-
i i ualism “ should be confined to a few qualified individuals, who should
i | i give to the world whatever may appear to them to be for its benefit.”
i : Thank you, I would rather not have my experience dictated to me in
| j | this fashion. I prefer, when and how I choose, to examine and report
[upon the subject for myself; to collect my own facts and draw my own
inferences from them. Miss Kislingbury’s teaching is precisely the
doctrine of the Roman Church, which has taken upon itself—for a con¬
sideration—to organise a belief for me. We all know to what enormities
such a system has led in the history of mankind, and we must be on
I our guard against it. Even in our own small spiritualistic way, we
cannot fail to notice how pernicious is any attempt to delegate to a com¬
mittee the conduct of an inquiry into the genuineness of spiritual
phenomena. The Society, of which Miss Kislingbury is secretary,
;) 1 cannot keep itself free from perpetrating occasionally an egregious act
11 ] of incompetence and folly. I allude particularly to the affair of Mr.
i 11 Williams in Holland, whose conduct was quite consistent with entire
| | innocence of any fraudulent intention. Those who have had a large
| j | experience of the tricks of spirits, know how difficult it is to separate
| | and distinguish the genuine from the spurious phenomena. The pre-
i i posterous resolutions arrived at by the British National Association of
I) j Spiritualists are sufficient to disgrace it, and even to break it up alto-
I i gether. Our Dutch friends are evidently in a very elementary state of
111 knowledge on this subject.
j j I In Captain Burton’s very objectionable paper in your issue of 6th
i i December there occurs the following passage:—“ The Hebrews, Moses
i i included, agreed to banish from their system a Soul-land, a Spirit-land,
i) | a Ghost-land ; in other words, a future world,” &c.
j i Where can Captain Burton find any authority for asserting that
111 Moses || agreed ” to any such monstrous conclusion ?
j) | The fact, I believe to be, that the ancient Hebrews so thoroughly
I I accepted the belief in the immortality of the soul that they did not think
111 it necessary to formulate it in a specific shape ; they did not dream that
any Hebrew would be so intensely stupid, if not insane, as to dispute
22
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 10, 1879.
this fundamental principle of existence. Accordingly we find that it
was not till after the Babylonish captivity, and not till after the con¬
quests of Alexander the Great introduced the Grecian philosophy into
the East, that the sect of Sadducees arose who disputed the resur¬
rection. Theodore Ellis.
London, December 30th, 1878.
Sir,—Of all despicable and contemptible sentiments ever expressed, j |
this one, oft quoted by theologians, appears to me to be the most fatally | ]
mischievous, “ Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we die; ” or put in } i
argumentative form, We might eat and drink if to-morrow we were to I
die, but as we are to live for ever, why, we ought to behave ourselves ; j [
and it is an unpleasant omen for the future usefulness of earnest ) |
Spiritualists when they speak of immortality as the groundwork of (|
morality, as some have been lately doing. Profit and loss, or H j
•'‘economical” morality; shall and shall not, or absolute morality; (I
between these is the choice given us, and if the Lord be God let us j (j
worship Him, and if Baal be God let us worship him. The creeds of j (|
the two great companies of worshippers are put for us shortly—the one j;; j
in the satire of a modern American, the other in the exhortation of j I
an ancient Jew. Thus— J I
The powers are great, I calculate,
And will the righteous bless ;
If I be wise, and don’t tell lies,
I’ll go to heaven, I guess. j
Work while it is called to-day, for the night cometh when no man
can work.
The difference between them lies wholly in the argument, but it is a
mighty one—the difference between bribery and duty. Long life or
short life, are we redeeming the time we have, or are we killing it ? Are
we working, or are we not? Stubbing Thornaby waste, bending over
the plough like Holbein’s consecrated landsman; to such men sleep
would be sweet, were there no awakening.
“ There is no reason that we should dripk foul water in London,
because we never hope to drink of the stream of the City of God; nor
that we should spend most of our income in making machines for the
slaughter of innocent nations, because we never expect to gather the
leaves of the tree for their healing.”
Fortuitous concurrence showed me this, and with it I end my letter,
gratefully thanking her. “No Matter Who.”
Who I am does not matter, but it does matter that I should write
sense; therefore, will kind readers put “ Judea” in the margin of my
last letter, drawing their pen through the word “ India,” which occurs
there by reason of my bad writing.
THE REV. J. TTERMAN’S APPROACHING VISIT TO ENGLAND.
Sir,—Having nearly finished my tour through America, I purpose
leaving shortly for England, on my way back to Australia ; and as I am
desirous of delivering a few lectures while in England I write to inform
you and readers of The Spiritualist of the fact.
Since I last wrote to you I have crossed the Continent from San
Francisco, a distance of nearly three thousand miles, and lectured at
most of the principal cities on the way. Whilst making general observa¬
tions, and learning all I could of America and its people during my
travels, my chief aim has been to ascertain the real condition of modern
Spiritualism in this the land of its birth. I have visited several fine
mediums, witnessed a variety of remarkable phenomena under satis¬
factory test conditions, and met with a large number of believers in the
new dispensation—new as a public movement, but old as to many of its
facts and teachings. Of some of my experiences I may give a brief
narrative when in England. I do not notice much marked public interest
in Spiritualism just now; the novelty of the thing is past, and there is
less sensationalism connected with it than in former days. Frauds and
other evils that have been perpetrated under its name have done it con¬
siderable temporary injury, and for some time past it seems to have
been passing through a rather trying crisis. As a public movement it is
not in such a healthy and flourishing condition as I expected to find it.
There is a sad lack of organised and earnest effort in many places.
Societies are few and feeble, compared with what they ought to be.
There are a few devoted friends of the cause in each place I have
visited, but there are many more who, while believing in it's main facts
and principles, yet, from various unworthy motives, stand aloof from it,
and in many cases actually support the very systems that are trying to
crush it out of existence. Hence it does not strike a stranger, passing
through the country, so favourably as could be desired.
But when one looks beneath the surface, and extends one’s inquiries
into the different classes of society, one soon discovers ample grounds
for gratitude for the past and hope for the future. The marvel then
becomes, not that Spiritualism has not made more progress, but that it
has achieved the results we behold, considering the short time it has
been before the public, and the enormous difficulties it has had to en¬
counter. It has extended far and wide, and is silently but surely per¬
meating all sections of the people. Sceptical outsiders, who measura
the condition of a movement. by its external demonstrations, would
hardly credit the extent to which it is believed in among people
who make little or no open avowal of their faith. As the result of
my observations and inquiries, I should not hesitate to endorse the
estimate which makes the Spiritualists of America several millions in
number, though I feared, before I came to this country, that the
estimate was considerably exaggerated. And finding Spiritualism
numerically so strong, I cannot but hope that all its disciples will
soon wake up to a proper sense of its importance, and of their own
duties in relation to it; and then it will soon occupy a position
before the public, and exert an influence for good, far greater than it
has ever done in the past.
I recently lectured two Sundays iu the city of Rochester, New
| York, which is so intimately associated with the early history of
| Spiritualism in this country. Kate Fox—now the honoured wife of
j Mr. Jencken, an English barrister-at-law—and her sisters are still
j remembered there. I met persons who, having fully satisfied them¬
selves of the genuineness of their mediumship, stood by the “Fox
j girls,” as they were then called, in those stormy days. They are proud
of the fact, and well they may be, for time has abundantly vindi-
| cated the claim of those suspected and persecuted girls, and covered
their enemies with shame. As I sat in Corinthian Hall one night,
and recalled the exciting scenes enacted there over thirty years ago,
while the spirit raps were being publicly tested, I could not but ex-
| claim, What hath the spirit-world wrought! The howling mob could
not silence those little raps; self-sufficient scientists failed to satis¬
factorily explain them; while sectarian bigots would not accept them
as proof of that immortality they professed to believe iu. But what a
mighty change those thirty years have witnessed 1 The movement then
introduced has not only fully established its claims, but has expanded
to proportions which the most sanguine could scarcely dare to expect;
and it is destined to endure, to extend throughout the world, and effect
greater changes in society, and shed richer blessings on the human
family than any other system has ever done.
In closing this letter, I will just add that I am engaged to lecture
in Boston on the first and second Sundays in January, and I intend
leaving America immediately after. Hence I hope to be in England
about the end of January; and as my stay there will be short, I want
to make the most of the time at my disposal. Readers of The Spirit¬
ualist who may wish to engage my services, would oblige by addressing
me at its office, London. I hope the Spiritualists of my dear old native
land will afford me an opportunity of saying something about the facts
and philosophy of modern Spiritualism before I return to my home
in Australia. John Tyerman.
Buffalo, New York, United States of America,
December 25th, 1878.
A MURDERER AND HIS VICTIM.
Sir,—In the Revue Spirite for January, there is notice of a seance
held by the Parisian Society for Psychological Studies (Societe Scien-
tifique d’Etudes Psychologiques), at which, through the trance medium
Madame Hugo d’Alesi, the alleged Marie de Manach, the victim of the
murderer Billoin, gave an account of her murder, and the subsequent
state of herself and her paramour. The narration is graphic and
natural, although necessarily somewhat horrible; and the whole tale
bears on the face of it a good semblance of authenticity, not least,
inasmuch as it shows that in the next life, as in this, a woman’s love
and forgiveness of injury often predominate over all other feelings
towards the object of her love.
The medium was under the influence of M. Hippolyte, the mesmerist,
and after she had undergone a strong control \crise) the spirit was
announced. Who are you? “I dare not tell. I came here to talk,
but now I dare not—I feel ashamed. I come to tell you  I can’t
tell you my name, because there are ladies here; it would frighten
them.” M. Hippolyte insisted that she should tell her name, and en¬
couraged her  “Marie Le Manach  You must pray for us;
for him and for me. What happened was through my fault; I had been
drinking; it never would have happened but for that. He wasn’t a bad
fellow. For my part, I pardon him. And then, you know, what he did
afterwards he did because he was frightened. I will tell you how it
came about. He struck me, and I stooped; he had called me a cow;
I answered him foolishly, and called him a pig, and .then it was he
kicked me; .1 fainted; he kicked me again with his heel; then I re¬
mained motionless. He thought I was dead, and got frightened; he was
determined to make all sure, and he stabbed me in the stomach; 1 had
only time to cry ‘ Oh! ’ and all was over. He cut my throat. He was
in a fever ; he did not know what he should do with me. He said to
himself, ‘ They will come and take me. How can I get this body away
without their seeing me ? ’ Then it was he began doing what you know.
I swear to you that I bear him no ill-will. I swear to you, gentlemen,
by all that I hold most sacred, that I owe him no grudge, and that I was
pained to see him cutting my throat.” She was asked if she had seen
Billoir in space. “Yes, I have seen him again; he is very unhappy.
He cannot come up ; he cannot raise himself from this world.’’ Are you
higher? “ Yes, I am higher—I never did anybody any harm.” And
what does he do ? “ He ? he goes about the world; he sees the room; he
sees the prison, and also what you know. He is ashamed; he wasn’t
bad, he was not an evil-disposed young man, he was fond of me. He
used me roughly, he spent what little I got, but he was fond of me. In
prison he used to be thinking of me. What could you do ? It is a bad
job. It is quite sure that he will never do it again. After what hap¬
pened I never quitted him, and I have seen him crying over the tobacco
pouch I had given him. Often he said to himself, Ah! poor Marie !
It hurt me more to see him cut my throat than to see him cutting up
my body. . . .At the moment I said, ‘ Oh! the scoundrel 1 what a
vicious wretch!’ But then, when he was carrying away the poor
bundles, I trembled for him.’’ What were your impressions as regards
yourself? “ I kept always in the room, but I knew I was dead. I did
not feel any pain at all; only I was like a person stupefied. I said,
‘ What a vicious wretch!’ But, then, how difficult it is to judge. . . I
saw well what was happening, that I was dead, and that it was me he
was hacking up like that. ... I am not so stupid as all that!” And
now where are you? “Now I am in space.” Are you alone? “No,
with others.” And what are they doing there ? “ They come and go.
I have not many acquaintances there; I often come to Paris.” And
what is your way of getting about? “ It is a little like a bird.” I
suppose you do not go to other worlds ? “ No, I dare not.” Do you
see any brighter spirits? “ I should like much to see them, but I know
nothing about them.” Is there anything to hinder you ? “ What is to
hinder me? 'I have never done any harm.” Have you found again
Jan. 10, 1879.
23
THE SPIRITUALIST.
any of your old acquaintances 1 “I have found Eugenie and Claude.’’
And you have not much to do? “No, it is pleasant to have nothing
to do.” Do you ever find the want of something to eat ? “ We are not
hungry here; what do you suppose we should eat ? . . . The fact is,
what I came here for was to tell you that he was not so bad as they |
say. And then I came to bring this to your consideration: for you to j
pray for him ; and this is for all people who believe in spirisme (sicJ. j
Pray for him, that he may be pardoned, for what grieves me is that
nobody prays for him, and if people would pray for him it would do him
good. However, there is one lady here who has prayed for him; that
is the reason why I came here. If you pray, that will aid him to i
mount. Then with that, from the moment when he shall be able to i
come where I am, he will be quiet. That is all I ask. Am I to under- |
stand that you will do so? I again thank the lady and the company. |
Good night.” K. j
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
To the Editor of the “ Banner of Light,"
Sir,—Spiritualism in these Colonies finds little or no public repre- I
sentation outside of Melbourne or Sydney. Warm friends of the cause !
may be found scattered all over this vast land, but the lack of co- j
operation amongst them leaves the burden of public effort entirely to
the medium or speaker. Expenses which are cheerfully divided
amongst the many in the United States, become all too heavy for en¬
durance when shouldered upon the isolated workers; hence the paucity j
of public representation, and the impossibility of those who visit the !
colonies, as we have done, effecting any important pioneer work beyond
the two great centres I have named. Both Mr. Walker and I have
visited several towns in Victoria besides Melbourne, but the cost of j
such undertakings to the individual must prevent effective missionary
labour. Within the two great capitals, I must presume the mark we I
have made may be estimated by the strength of the opposition, and the I
desperate efforts prompted by Christian piety to starve us out. Mr. i
Walker at Sydney, and I at Melbourne, have been favoured with the j
largest gatherings ever assembled at Colonial Sunday meetings.
Having, by desire of my spirit guides, exchanged rostrums, he filling |
my place at Melbourne, and I his at Sydney, we find simultaneously at !
the same time, and on the same Sundays, the lessees of the two theatres |
we occupied raising their rent upon us one hundred and fifty per cent.
The freethinkers and Spiritualists had occupied the theatre in Sydney j
foqr years at the rate of four pounds per Sunday. For my benefit the j
landlord raised the rent to ten pounds, whilst the same wonderful spirit
of accordance caused the Melbourne manager to increase upon Mr.
Walker from eight pounds to a demand of twenty. With our heavy
expenses and small admission fees this was tantamount to driving us out j
altogether. Both of us have succeeded after much difficulty, and
fighting Christian warriors with the Christian arms of subtlety and j
vigilance, in securing other places to lecture in; and despite the fact ]
that the press insult us, the pulpit curse us, and Christians generally
devote us to as complete a prophecy of what they would wish us to j
enjoy everlastingly as their piety can devise, we are each attracting our i
thousands every Sunday night, and making such unmistakable marks on j
public opinion as will not easily be effaced again.
The great sensation of the hour is Baldwin, the “ exposer of !
Spiritualism.” The immense audiences he attracts, and the gusto with ]
which piety disgorges the money he pockets, simply prove how said
piety rejoices in any opportunity to abuse or injure a cause which can
only be attacked through such desperate and not over cleanly means of j
warfare.
Dr. Slade’s advent in Melbourne since last September has been pro- j
ductive of an immense amount of good. He arrived with his niece, |
Miss Slade, before I left Melbourne, and it was my pleasure and triumph j
to witness many of his inimitable demonstrations of spirit power. How
far his labours here will prove remunerative I am not, of course, pre¬
pared to say. Frankly speaking, I do not advise spirit mediums or
speakers to visit these Colonies on financial advancement intent. There
is an abundant crop of medium power existing, interest enough in the
cause prevailing, and many of the kindest hearts and clearest brains in
the world to be found here; but the lack of organisation, to which I
have before alluded, the imperative necessity for the workers who come
here to make their labours remunerative—as the very sine qua non of i
life—^paralyses all attempts at advancement, except in the sensation line, j
and with star mediums and speakers.
In our departure from Australia, which is even now looming up before
us like an ugly phantom, beckoning us onward, my husband and I feel
as if we must leave friends both in Melbourne and Sydney, around whom I
our heartstrings will be wound with a life-long grip. Still I feel con¬
fident that with a deeper perception of the value, nay, the absolute
necessity of united action throughout the entire scattered force of
Spiritualistic thought in these Colonies, Spiritualism might and would
supersede every other phase of religious thought in an incredibly short j
space of time. I must not omit to mention that an excellent Progressive
Lyceum has been established here in Sydney, mainly through the efficient
zeal of Mr. Thomas Walker. In Melbourne the Lyceum stands on a
firm and reliable basis. It has been tried and proved a success of the
first order, and I rejoice to find a similar evidence of good work in the
right direction taking a deep hold upon the liberal mind in the Sydney j
Lyceum. In speaking of these two great cities, I candidly confess I [
have no preferences to record, no comparisons to draw. The friends in j
both places have been more than kind, hospitable, and appreciative. |
The public have in each place defied both press and pulpit in their
unstinted support of my lectures. The press have been equally servile,
and the Christian world equally stirred to- their deepest centres, and
equally active in desperate revivalism to crush out the obvious proofs of
immortality Spiritualism brings, and peddle out a miserable monopoly of
dry husks and figments, amongst their own ranks alone. j
In Melbourne I had to fight my way to comply with an invitation
to lecture for the benefit cf the City Hospital. I fought and
! conquered; and the Hospital Committee revenged itself for a
crowded attendance at the Town Hall by taking my money without
! the grace of thanks, either in public or private, and the simply formal
acknowledgment of my services by an official receipt. In Sydney,
where I now am, I was equally privileged in lecturing for the benefit
I of the Temperance Alliance, and equally honoured, after an
| enthusiastic and successful meeting, by the daily press of the city in
I their utter silence concerning such an important meeting, and their
| careful record of all sorts of trash with which they could disgrace
their columns. So mote it be. The wheel will turn some day !
Sydney is deepening from a lovely spring to a warm summer, j ust
| as you in America are collapsing into a freezing winter. Some time
! soon after Christmas (Midsummer here) I expect we shall begin to
| turn our thoughts Westward, where home duties and private interests
| imperatively summon us ; if not early in the spring, not later than
| the ensuing early summer. Emma Hardinge Britten.
j Sydney, New South Wales, November, 1878,
MATERIALISED SPIRIT FEET.
Last Friday night a private stance was held at the residence
I of Mr. John Corner, 3, St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney,
| London. Twelve or sixteen of Mrs. Corner’s friends were
| present, among them Captain John James, of Lee, Kent,
| and Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P.; Mr. Haxby was the
| medium. His hands were held in the dark by Miss Davis
on the one side of him, and Mr. Davis, jun., on the other ;
I both these young people were friends of Mrs. Corner. The
guests were seated all round the room, close to the wall.
Living materialised feet soon began to touch the heads of
most of those present.
Captain John James, of Lee, Kent, writes :—
P On Friday, 3rd inst., I attended a stance at Mrs.
Corner’s, St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney, where Mr. Haxby
was the medium. Daring the dark stance a naked foot was
placed on Mr. Harrison’s head, and he was allowed by
| ‘ Joey’ to feel the said foot and part of the leg, which he
j reported to be placed at an angle of about 45 degrees. A
| naked foot was also placed on Signor Rondi’s head, and
then on Mr. Wedgwood’s; lastly, a foot was placed on my
I head, and I requested that the other foot should also be
| placed there.
“ This was done, and I then asked to be allowed to feel
one of the feet, when what I supposed to be the left foot
! was raised and stamped three times on my head in the
i affirmative.
‘‘I raised my hand and felt what was unmistakably a bare
I foot, for I passed the palm of my hand over the instep and
upwards over the shin bone, when the feet were suddenly
withdrawn, and as I supposed either floated away or became
| dematerialised.
“ After the stance was finished I inquired whether the
i medium’s hands were held during the seance, and I was
| assured by one of his immediate neighbours that he never
quitted his hold for one instant. I did not require that
assurance for my own satisfaction, for if the medium had had
i full liberty of locomotion, I defy him or the cleverest acrobat
to have performed the feat above recorded without the
| assistance of some support placed high above the heads of
| the company, and as the seance was held at a private house,
I should suppose that the hardest sceptic would scarcely
suggest such an explanation.
“ The weight on my head appeared to me to be about the
| weight of two human feet, and certainly did not give me the
i idea of any body being attached to the legs. The lower part
of the leg which I felt was in a perpendicular position.”
Mr. Harrison says :—“A living foot touched me on the
cheek. I asked its owner to let it rest on the top of my
j head, and to permit me to feel at what angle the leg was
inclined. He did so; the leg inclined upwards towards the
centre of the room, at an angle of about forty-five degrees.
| There was no spare chair in the' room, and the little table
was more than seven feet distant from my head. It was
quite certain that the intelligence at work could see in the
dark. All through the stance not a footfall was heard. Once
I a large phosphorescent-looking light, perhaps a foot long,
j floated from the middle of the room to the ceiling ; there was
no smell from it. After the foot touched me, it and another
| foot went to Captain James at another part of the room.”
24
Jan. 10, 1879.
THE S ir I H I T U
“ ’TWIXT WILL AND FATE.” |
Miss Caroline Corner has just published her first essay at literature, : (
iu the form of a hook entitled “ ’ Twixt Will and Fate, and The \ )
Slinhensmirh Family, two stories in one volume.” (London: Remington 15
and Co.; 1879.) Of these stories the first is the best. Descriptions of j J
psychic phenomena are interwoven, so the work is one of those which I (
tend to familiarise the public mind with occurrences which have more i)
truth in them than is generally known. In illustration of this, a scene i f
in which mesmerism and visions in mirrors play a prominent part is If j
appended:— f> j
In due time the dwarf arose from his three-footed stool, withdrew the j j !
silken hangings, and discovered the magic mirror—clear and bright^ j ) I
without a flaw or blemish upon its surface—set in a frame of polished ; | j
ebony, and, in size and appearance, bearing a resemblance to the harvest j) j
moon at its fullest and most brilliant epoch. Stooping, so that his breath |) j
mystified the crystal, a muttered incantation was pronounced upon it, thrice i ) j
repeated; then, drawing both hands by mesmeric passes in downward jin j
motion, yet without actual contact, the globe was charged with a suf- I ) '
ficiency of magnetic fluid, and only needed the application of that steel I \
rod to its meridian, after which the operator sank back into his former | V
seat, and gazed, with earnestness and absorption of mind, upon the j )
crystal. In a few minutes the previous brightness began to wane; a j j
speedy twilight seemed to set in, which soon developed into the darkness j [
of night, illumined by a multitude of electric lights, like stars in the j
firmament of heaven, and the bulk and capacities of the mirror were j )
lost in the depth and magnitude of its proportions and the expanse con- j )
tained therein. ’ - * ' !,( j
Never for a single instant was the penetrating orb of the magician ! ( j
turned from its direction ; and although a glassy film glazed the up- | 1 i
turned eyeball, yet was the sight, the inner vision, opened, and what to j < i
many might have appeared but an ordinary ball of transparent crystal i j j
now became, to the clairvoyant, a kind of camera ohscura, wherein |) i
was assembled a party of gay and radiant mortals—the young, the i ‘(|
beautiful, the brave, indolently enjoying the warm sunshine of a fresh j j j
autumn morning. ' ! ) j
Apart from the rest, one couple was eagerly sought and found. A H j
thrill shot through the dwarf’s frame when he again beheld, in vision, j j I
the charms of the fair Rosenstein, and by her side, with one hand laid ! ) j
caressingly upon the flowing tresses of rich gold, stood one equally as i j j
noble, equally as deserving. But upon him a shudder of aversion was j j j
cast; an expression of hatred, combined with terror, o’erspread the !) |
countenance of the man Anselme as his gaze fell upon the impersona- j j j
tion of “the flaxen-haired youth” of yonder horoscope; and for a j|j
second or two the picture shivered and was about to disappear alto- j j !
gether, when rising, the whole performance of breathing upon the j j j
mirror, pronouncing an incantation, and vehemently willing or evoking i ) |
the scene to appear in more clear and lasting aspect was repeated.
The blood of the operator was cool now, and this time, at sight of the j | j
robust and handsomely-built individual who unconsciously possessed such j ) i
an unusual and intense influence, not a nerve quivered, not a muscle re- j ( j
laxed, only a vice-like set of the mouth could have betrayed the mental con- j | j
dition had another been there to witness the effect. These two figures i i
stood out in bold prominence, the others become dim and indistinct, and j l - j
then gradually fading away, whilst the lovers—for that they were lovers 11 j
was easily discernible—remained in rapt attention the one to the other, j j i
revelling in the glories of their blissful dream. They were engaged in i ( j
a murmured tete-d-tete, the bent of which was the old, old theme, and j j j
utterly unworthy, so considered the clairvoyant at least, of following; j / j
so preferring another course, he endeavoured to force his thought, his | ] j
will, far away, to whisper a single word within the maiden’s ear. But i i j
one word, ’twould be enough ! yet something forbade it! When in close j) j
contiguity a repellent influence impeded itS accomplishment, and not- j j i
withstanding much effort and loss of vitality, that difficulty could not j ) j
be surmounted, that repulsion overcome ! Presently the young and i ) i
lovely girl unfastened the chain of gold which encircled her slender i j j
throat, and with the jewelled trinket, placed both into the hand of her ! j j
betrothed. A suppressed cry of joy caused the pulse of the dwarf to j j i
throb frantically, and the heart to bound tumultuously, while from his Ilf;
lips escaped the words: ^ . n j
“ Now—now, is my time! she feels my power 1 she turns j j
from her lover; she scorns! she spurns him! Ha ! ha! she sue- j j j
cumbs! she succumbs to my will! He, the ‘flaxen-haired youth,’ || j
writhes beneath her cruel glance—he casts one long, sad look upon her i i
and is gone—that accursed talisman in his hand—and she is mine! j I j
Love ! what is its might to that of the will ? Let maniacs rave of the j j i
power of love, whilst sane men act and triumph by the will! Ha! ha ! j j
she is mine ! she is mine! ”
With this the mesmerist started to his feet, and darting to the en- j S j.
trance of the outer cave, commenced to extend his arms at full length j j
in waving motion, as though to draw some person or thing towards him, j j j
his eyes gloating over the success thus far achieved; his system at each i j i
repetition losing an abundance of magnetic force, yet by no means i 1 j
begrudging the loss which was considered well spent in the accomplish- i i
ment of such a work. j j j
She comes, she approaches nearer and nearer, step by step, slow, j ] I
yet sure; a somnambule, yet seemingly conscious and herself; her j |
own will subdued, obsessed by another more powerful than her j | |
own. Attracted as the needle is to the magnet, so is she to the | j
goal which, spite of all, she must attain. Cross influences render her ! I i
progress hard; more energy, a double supply of force is infused by the j | j
operator, and again she moves onward, onward, with eyes riveted upon ! j j
an indiscernible something before her, and her mind in a state of I j j
abnormal quietude, passive quiescence. At this the dwarf Anselme’s j I j
features beam with exhilaration and wild delight. But by-and-by his j f j
ALIST.
strength waxes less, and still less, until, alas! he struggles, and
struggles in vain ! His limbs fall helpless by his sides, and a frothy
foam rushes from his mouth and nostrils; a sickly faintness takes
possession of him, until, with a half-groan, half-muttered curse upon
his lips, he staggers, and rolls to the earth; still conscious, yet power¬
less, helpless as an infant, and anathematising this the denouement of
his contemplated success.
• ‘ ‘ Teufeln ! all is over! my work is spoilt, when about completion!
The influence remains, but my power of will is exhausted ! No more
to-day, yet, to-morrow ! to-morrow, fresh strength, a longer sleep, an
extra narcotic, a more vigorous will, and she shall be mine! Sleep on,
sleep on, rest as thou art, my Rosenstein, beneath the Felsenhole, there
thou art safe, and to-morrow thou art mine ! "
THE QUEEN’S ENGLISH.
We have received the following in relation to our proposed abolition
of the word “medium”:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—Permit me the privilege of recording my protest against the
suggested abolition of the term “ medium ’’ in favour of the designation
“ psychic,” as under the former term the facts of spirit communion have
been introduced to the world’s notice for these thirty years past; and to
abandon a title that has been the name of honour to many a hard worker
savours too much of “ going over to the enemy,” and is not without a
suggestion of “ abusing the bridge that has carried us over the stream ”
so many years. If our critics sneer because some of us make “ mediums ”
the plural of “ medium,” small credit is due to the little wit they express.
Certainly “psychic” will sound no less pedantic than “media” or
“mediums” to many. Why not give up the terms “Spiritualism,”
“ Spirits,” and “ Spiritualist,” and so unconditionally surrender all our
hard-won rights and well-attested facts at the bidding of hypercritical
strangers ? No possible gain can accrue by the alteration suggested;
much harm would follow, and, if the alteration should be carried out (a
most doubtful contingency), it would enable our critics to say we are
ashamed of our mediums, so find them another name. For ten years
the writer has worked under the title of “ medium,” and he too well
esteems it to sacrifice it now, simply because some small wit chooses to
laugh when he meets the term “medium” in our books or papers.
J. J. Morse.
The London correspondent of the Northern Evening Express (New¬
castle) says:—
The Spiritualists don’t like mediums. They object not to the thing,
but to the name. “ Mediums,” they say, is not English. They do not
like talking of “ a happy medium ” in the singular, and in the plural the
proper word sounds pedantic. So they propose to call the miracle-
workers “psychics.” A “medium” of late has been rather a dis¬
credited creature. A “psychic ” would arise out of the grub-like state,
as a butterfly does. He will reach an end of his troubles as Psyche
reached the end of hers, and Love will embrace him again, as Love
embraced Psyche at the end of her tasks. Mr. Harrison begs his
friends to begin to use “psychic,” and il a raison, as the French say.
Dr. Slade’s seances are, according to the newspaper reports, giving
great satisfaction in Australia.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens,
The book also-contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
. Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Jan. 10, 1879.
— - .   m _
THE SPIRITUALIST.
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING- SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with giit edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OP THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor oi
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist" was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.”
Nature's Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IV. ‘ .
Tlie Thinker. „ V. •
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
©hildren’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .
Death and the After-Life . . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures . & . .
s. d.
. 15 0
. f 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 0
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
.3 6
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
• 5 d
. 6 0
.26
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . .24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieituaiist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . ,18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. ..... .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind,; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . ... . IS
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
0
6
0
0
6
0
6
0
6
6
0
0
6
0
6
6
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, pri.je
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOE DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIO MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. Tbe real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them.; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, eontaining instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authop a.nd Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
88, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, hut also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to he
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing bis opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that tbe
succeeding pages are remarkably - free from argument-and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature."—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently flitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and ‘hose so-
called, and to tbe majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations eontaiued in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.’’—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jeneken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis BUliugs—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV—^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Hei bert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. §£. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX Phenomena In America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. It. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X—Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opimons of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve¬
lations Made New — Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt —
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — GuldenstubSe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XvlII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages'the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely hound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Variey, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage: paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s.
Loudon: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O
iii
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new book by
“M.A. (03L0N),ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested, by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, II. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
11.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Ei idence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayeuis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins),
HI—From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation oi
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W.H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Proiessor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post tree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of ihe
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
tranee-mediumship oi Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —Tlie Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
Ill The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV.—Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship ot
Lizzie Doten.
V The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium
ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VM.—The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life oj Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals.
By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A.,
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Bareness Adelma Von Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burxe.
XXII—A Story of a Haunted House. By B. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—‘‘ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ane’.ent Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sol., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxort.”
XXIX.—A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX “ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI.—The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIIl.—Death. ByCnrolineA. Burke.
XXXIV. — The Spirit Creed. Through the medjumslup of
“ M.A , Oa.on.’'
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction: By Alice Worthington (Ennesf alien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Philosophy,
Berno; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis¬
lingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W.H. Harris an.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Ca'.der.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massny. »
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. By Lisette MakdougaU Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred. Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child's Rfayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
■ft/TEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
w.a Price Id.: post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for Gd. .
IV
mm% S PI RIT U AL I S<T.
Jan. 10, 1S79
THE SPORTSMAN’S JOUR-NAE:1
AND “
FANCIER’S GUIDE
Is the recognised leading organ in all natters connect ed .with
THE KENNEL AND ^^b£'E.
COUESING,’ TEOTTING, COACHING, &c., &c., &c.
Articles and letters by all the best ^uthQcities. n£
■Weekly. Price.Id.
From the Sporting Chronicle, November 10th.
“ Perhaps it would not be out of place . tq say .that one of the,
if not the best report of the [Birmingham] Show, is that .which
appears in our new contemporary, The Sportsman’s Journal
and Fancier’s Guide: a very,'fearless and true criticism,
and evidently the work of an expert.’’ - f
Offices: 9 to 12, iFullwood’s Een^s. Hqlborn.
Price 6d.; post free, 7£d.; cloth.
k Prize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF spirit¬
ualism, upon the SOCIAL, MOEAL, AND EELI-
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the . First and!Sec6np1'g6ld Medals
of the British NATiONAt AssopiAT^N of Spiritualists. :
The Spiritualist: Newspaper'Hfaneh Office, London.
PRIMITIVE .CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
■SPIRITUALISM.
...By EUGENE CEOWELL,* M.D.
One of the best'books published in connection with Modern
Spiri&alism for many .years, and a standard work 'on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, apd cfeals in an intelligent manner with
the problems, and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each’; postage 8d. per vblume. •
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. • <
. ; Just; Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE ’ L AiZ'Y-iL AY S
M AND PEGS Ej I M;A G I N IN G S $
BY WILLIAM H. HART1IS0N. ^ ,
An.Elegant and Amusing Gift-I!opk of.Poetical and Prose
Writings,' Gfave'and Gay. ■■
The'gilt device on the cover designediby Florence .Claxton and the
Author., ,
Contents.1
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2.-The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry jof Science.—7. How: Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben' Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St.-Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast .Falls the^Eventide.”—12. Our Eaven.
—13. Materialistic Keligion.—lS.i.Thei Lay of. the Photographer.—
14. How to-Double> the Utility of thesPriatiug. Press.—15..The
. Song of the Mother in-Law.—16.^ Poor Old
: JoeT”-H8. ^The Human Hivei—19. The.Lay of the’Mace-Bearers.—
; ZO.^A'Loye’Squg.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the" Lime's.”—23. The
Anaelof.Silence.
PjL'&i^i^The Wobbl^jav} Ballpidsf by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Eeceptidn at Folke¬
stone.—20. The’Eiflei Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
; Bug.—29. The Converted Carman'. l! -
Opinions, of’,the Press.
From The, -Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a-column long,- says :—:“.Comic .literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be ■ rapidly-becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer.who, like Mr: Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves'the praiseioUailwho
are not too stupid to enjoy hh iiyioceiit laugh. ’ Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lignterutterances ; bn the cofitrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things thatjhas been published for years. ...
The hook contains quite' enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its. tasteful appearance. will not detract.” Tp&_Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the''-rhymes are pitched in “something
like the sahie'key” as The 'Bon GaUUxer Ballads br'The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.” *
From BristokBaily Post.
“A curious collectigh..o£i;verses-.and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and'sentimentarverses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L.'E^H^g prodiigtions.”. •
From The Kensington News. , , -
It is “ after the manner of Barham,. Hood, Mark Twain,;or anv
of those merry souls who do quite as muclugood. in their day and
generation as the-authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, hut
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News,.
;:<4‘It,is.in itself a work of itself—original, ,and a. cast of its
authbr!s,mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
Uvely Jmaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
thatmay.bejead many times over.. .The get-up of the-book is
-very handsome.”
_ From The Folkestone News.
“A number Of>clever sketches and poems, among the.latter
being a series of papers entitled, The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the ’cblumns 'of this paper a short time -ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \_N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,”, bub the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not,mind them.y. .V“ It-contains-;.some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound, in cloth richly: gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit bn the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 0d., post free, at the Branch Office of ths
Npiihifwafwf Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMEEISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.E.S.E., Pro/essor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or ,5s. 6d. post, free; or five Copies
post free for :21s. ‘ Copies may also be had boiind in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which , at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation ,
of the earth. »
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John;
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which: for two yiears'
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence'of non-
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Orookes, F.E S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser of the radiometer, and discoverer of the
new metal thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit--
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr. .
A. E. Wallace, Mr. Oromwell.Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great'
number of intelligent professional men have done, the same'.
HOW TO FOEM SPIE1T OIEOLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming.circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with .no [stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are', only.abo,ut half-a-dozen pro-.•;
fessional mediums for J the, phy sical. phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently,.if these were all tricksters (whichThey
are not), they are so’few .irt number as' to be unable to bear'
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of mpdern Spiritualism. Eeadersi should protect them¬
selves agamst any* impostors who may tell them that'the ;
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which(cost.nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it ; are to be found in-nearly every hoiiseholdr and
about one new circle , in three, formed according to the foUow-
ing instruetions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements he made that there shall .be no’ in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the .circle, ..
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six, individuals,
about ihe.same number of each sex. Sit in-subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to he seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of, the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether.jhe hands tpuch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on'the manifestations,
hut an acrid feeling against them is weakening:
4. Before'the manifestations begin, if is well to (engage n
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.,
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first .
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions o^ the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should .talk
to the table as to’air intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts.or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “No,’’ and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps he given in answer, Then'say, V If'
I speak the letters . of .the alphabet slowly, will you1-signal
every time I come to.the.letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from ‘this tithe'an intelligent system' of •
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosbphical
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena.; After1 the ThanifeStations arc
obtained, the observers should hot go toHhe* bthCr extreme
and give wayt o an excess of credulity, but should believe" no
more aboutt hem or the contents of messages ‘than' they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. hhould no results be obtained at the first two4 seances ■
because no medium chances to be present, try again with -
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
From The Court Journal. ■
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionallyjwp.flnd yerse.of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure* poetic
gift.’’
From The Oraphic,
“Thosewho can appreciate genuine,"unforced hiimbur should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. - Written,
printed, published and reviewed by WillianrHffiarrfcon'CSS; Great
Eussell-street). Both the. verses and the short'essays, are really
funny,'and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy, to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rathei- severe, and so is The, Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes .with success.! .. To
all who wish to rea’d^a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book,>we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.,
.“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
: humorous fancies, some, in verse and others'in prose,'and all
written with. a fluenL and. not ungraceful' pen. The vein .of
humour which permeates'them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.” -
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘ A.n. 1877
(popularchronology); A.M. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
. “ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which-
are'in verse'and others in prose, some scientific,-'otheYs social,:but
! alUof them excellent.. i .The Lazy Lays will make’excellent and’
: amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour. ..: They con-
; tain nothing unrefined’or in bad taste.” it . / ;
From The Dublin University Magazine,
; “How HadjiAl Shacabac,.aa amiable Turk, was photographed,
: is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat puwerful design.”
".‘From The Photographic News~
i “Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in.
^connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
[considerable facility of versification, and. deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”. _
From Thfi- Scotsman.
; “In Mr.. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of sbUd sense.” -
j From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.-
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
.a most welcome'book... ‘ How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo-,
graphed,’ will he sure to make every reader roar with laughter.” .
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser:- ’
“ With such a free and. easy author i t is, naturally to be expected
that hisjBubjects should bear some trace of this, peculiar idiosyUT
crasy,1 and indeed .they .are as free and easy as himself.:. .The
poems are all Characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The.work is; very.elaborately bound in cloth and.gilt.... A
gorgeous, design upon the cover. ... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.’
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“.In his.handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
:William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear-
lance and entertaining in’, its contents.... The author is imbued
With the tme spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.” -
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile :peli of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
i editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of llie humorous poenis re-
I mind,us oj fiye, Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lai) op the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would-.not have been unworthy of Parham himself. Some;of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.” ■
JErJ From the daily Northern IFfey (Belfast).
‘‘The finestvthing in the.bQQk.is.‘How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is.ah admirable addition-to our not too ex¬
tensive comic, literature:; ; The story is one of which extracts
: would not; givean, adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those yvho wish to obtain ja handsome gift-book of mi amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.’’
-.CONTENTS.
•_ CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the’Sleep—^Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain. '
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in' Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will: and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAP1EE III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence."
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the ,Eyes—Vision of Near Object^: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Betrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre-
dicted-*-Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta-.
f neons Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Eetrovision.
: and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Sefises and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious Or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
, Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
; ofteh’Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s ' Extatics—Visions of the S ii ritual
Worldv" •
CHAPTER- VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom-
: Oha—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
I and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Bower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on -It." ■
s CHAPTER, lx:— Action pf Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
j Frame-Mtesearches of Reicheribach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric' Fluid of Mesmer/or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena;—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesitierisni—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Eprce (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
: Characters—Difficulties of the Subieet—Eftects of Odyle—Somnam-
biilisifa—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
; Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
j Magic and .Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, ana Mirror, etc.; Induce
: Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future:
• CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
! —Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
i Succesk hi Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions'to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—Tlie Magic Crystal induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Oases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XlII :—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Niue Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sloop
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D;—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV :—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by' Bevebidge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works,. Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, Londc njE.O.
