Besistebed as a Newspaper.
SK© P^YdSo^QG^idS^ ^di^Kcis<-
-C0niu4^ toifl' In @>xjmi §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : u, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazlonale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimort, BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: g6, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal"
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON.:
No. 1010, Seventh-street,
LONDON : FRIDAY, AUGUST 2, 1878.
No. 310.—(VOL. XIII.—No. 5.)
The Passage of Matter through Matter $ ... ,..49
The Mediumship of Mr. Thomas Lake Harris. By S. B.
** Brittan  ...  49
The King Test. By Christian Keimers   ... 51
Mesmeric Healing    52
Spontaneous Psychological Phenomena. -By Eliza Boucher 52
“ There is Something in it.” By P. Clavairoz, Consul-
General of France    S3
A Permanent “ Miracle ” for Public Examination:—A Solid
King of Ivory and a Solid King of Wood Interlinked
by Spirits without Breakage—The Passage of Matter
through Matter     ... ...  54
A Private Seance  54
Savage Modes of Prayer... ... ...   ...  55
Spiritual Manifestations Described in Icelandic Sagas. By
Baron C. Dirckinck-Holmfeld  55
Spiritualism in Marylebone  ... ... ... 57
Poetry:—The Touch of the Unseen—Spring’s Reply 58
Correspondence:—The Seance at Mr. St. Clair’s House in
Birmingham—Where is Dr. Monck? 58
Spirit Individuality       59
The Marriage of Mr. F. Barrett and Miss Fitz-Gerald 60
Paragraphs:—“ Passed to the Higher Life,” 66 ; Fatal
Accident to Mr. Oxley, jun., 58; Presentation to Mr.
John Ainsworth, 59 ; Cricketing Misunderstood, 60;
Ancient Babylon, 60 ; Dangerous Somnambulists 60
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions ni its columns are Mr. 0. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American■ Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-airLaw; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J- Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross -C-hurcH (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “ Life of Swedenborg ; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-t
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles !(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .'Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the follo wing places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth,: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News-
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.C.
PSYCHISCBE STUDIEN. A MontMy Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly —Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Offices at 38, Great Russell-street, will be closed on
Saturday, July 27th, and re-opened on Monday, August 26th.
THE REA-DING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m. to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high-class journals,
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: Two Guineas a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Five shillings
a year includes membership, and an extra subscription of ten
shillings entitles one book from the lending library. Half-a-
Guinea a quarter entitles non-members to the use of the read¬
ing room and library, and also of the lending library.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Lohghboroltgh-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &e., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. II. July. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—The Two Schools of Thought. By St. George Stock.
II.—James Hinton. By William White.
III. —Clairvoyance and Psychography. By Epes Sargent.
IV. —The Abate of San Gandolfo. ByJ.O. Earle.
V.—Remarkable Psychological Experiences. By A. E.
Newton.
VI.—Psychology of the Bible. By J. W. Farquhar.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. II.—Issoudun. By Rev. H.
N. Grimley.
VIII.—Thirtieth Anniversary of Modem Spiritualism. By
Thomas Shorter.
Leaves from My Life—An Innocent Sinner—Buddhism—
Miss Martineau Defended—More Glimpses of the World
Unseen — Concerning Everlasting Punishment — Possible
Planetary Influences—An Intelligent Tree—Psychography—
The Truthseeker — Views of our Heavenly Home —The
’Master’s Field—Marguerite Marie Alacoque.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
X EAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
I A Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit' to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
SECRETARY and CORRESPONDENT.
A well-known and favourite Literary Contributor to
The Spiritualist would like a congenial appointment where
character, ability, and confidential trustworthiness are re¬
quired. Excellent press and shorthand experience. Address
“ Junius,” 36, Royal-road, London, S.E.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.—MARGARET FOX
KANE, of the original Rochester Fox family, widow of
Dr. Kane, the first Arctic explorer in search of Sir John
Franklin, is staying with a friend at 2, Scarsdale Villas, Ken¬
sington, where she will give seances, or, when desired, will
give sittings elsewhere. At home from two till eight o’clock
on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, Wi
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
Mediumship i its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—jSpiritttoMsf Newspaper
Branch Office.
ANNALT DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA,
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, 23. No.
SCARCE AND VALUABLE BOOKS.
(Second hand.)
The Spiritual Magazine, Vols I. to XIV. (A.d. 1860 to 1873
£7 10s.
The Celestial Telegraph (Cahagnet), 12s.
From Matter to Spirit (Mrs. De Morgan), 10s. -
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, e.c.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,"
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, genera
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.G!
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. , Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application,
' FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to tbt skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London,
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPrRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Ca der, Esq.i Ii Hereford-square. South Kensinjfton, 8.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1. Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Oersld, Mrs . 19, Cambrldcre-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fltz-Oerald, Desmond O., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Biixton. S.'VV.
Orec ry, Mrs. Makdoucall.21. Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood Mrs.. f>2, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jenrken, Henry D., M.IJ.I.. Rarrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buiW-
Inps E.C.
Massey, c. C, Barrister-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
Roger«, E. Dawson, Hose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, StanhoneTempleman.M.D.,Douglas House, 13. Alexandra-
read. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W P., Derby House. Belper.
Barkas, T. P„ Central Exchange. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , Langley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beebv, * rs„ 2, Outram-road, Addlscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F A.. 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester
Bonwick, .T„ F.H.G.S,, Vale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John, 10. Dnnkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W H.. 94. Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, 8.W.
CoUey. Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar.” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S E.
D. "we, N Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd J. T., f.ynwood. Southern-hill, Reading.
E'lmands, T. H., 7. Oherstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., S9, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J C , Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fiiton. R , 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6. Lough borough-road North, Brixton,
S w.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S E
Green, G F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38. Great Russell-street.
Havle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20. Deiamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street. Leeds.
Hunt Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Istism, Sir Charles, Bart, Lamport-hall, Northampton.
.Toad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon. M 1 C.E , Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lsmont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe. Mrs., 64 Bemers-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-‘treet, W.C.
March, It. A., 14. Wllton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W , 71. Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J J , Elm Tree-terrace, TTttoxeter-road. Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stab’ton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newhould. Rev. W. W., 118, Albnny-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., n, Mltrc-courr, Temjple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard 8, Fssseft-road, Dalston, E.
Pear«on, C.. 15. Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3. Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Stra (jp0 Nelson, 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Bromptop,
S.W.
Sr-cwhridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton,
Stoat, st. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theohs'd, M-rdl. 30. Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M.. 62, Orapville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tr ’wen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Clsvertou-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner. J, P , Avenue-road,Leamington.
Walhouse, M. L, 9, Randolph-crescent, Malda-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, T,eeds.
Wilson, D. H . W A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq,, 1, Hereford-
square, West B”ompton, S.W.
Wfsnp an. Mrs.. 1. o-me-square. Bayswater, W.
Wltha'l, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, 8t. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hercford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J, W, Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq , Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Vop Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobltz, bei Potschach, Styria,
vfa Gratz, Aii^ria.
The. Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visoonde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevskv Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron vcp Dircklnok-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
W. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastlano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esc., Hammonton, Atlantic Go..New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell. La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mlttra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq , Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardlnge-Britten, San Francisco, TT.S.A.
A. J. Rlko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rer. J r”vnrman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmlllan Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann. Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germanv.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. WRtig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Lelpsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2.985, Boston, U.S.A.
H T Child. Esq , M.D., 684, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M D., 196, Cllnton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. E. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York. U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, *210, Mount Vemon-street, Phlladelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocrol, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Golby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
THE SPIHITUALIST.
Aug. 2, 1878.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxel’es.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jaeoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de PAthenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 80, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S, Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esqi, 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Be!grave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil. Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet. Rue Tanger. Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion. Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. See., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espirltlsta Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad’Esplrita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez,?. Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presl-
  dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarlta. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be atterded by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and order essential to English Customs. 
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
‘‘ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Works by the Countess op Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, ~W.O.
Price Sixpence.
The untrust worthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his hook on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
Sc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
The probable effects of spirit-
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
88, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s, 6d, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
 London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “HeavenOpened.” The two parts bound in one volxme,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Oolby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Oolby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
•reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientifle subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office. London, W.O.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenidgs from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Mil. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. || W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE. BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
Mr. j. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
» engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefield-road, Kings-
land, N.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at tb eir homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
The celebrated vocalist and
ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broa'dway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Olairvoyante. No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms ■
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
Price 5s. Cd.
Inspirational Poetry.
‘‘POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Pakt I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Leve and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIXI.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Pabt II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
■o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
KARE OLD BOOKS on ALCHEMY,
MAGIC, and ASTROLOGY, for sale.—Send stamped
envelope to Mr. Halse, 40, Addison-road, Kensington, London.
Just publisned, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
^sttnjh ol % JPipgtTj&s of ajth JB^tija of ^{ttijitttaliaitt.
No. 310.—Volume Thirteen; Kumber Five.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 2nd, 1878.
THE PASSAGE OP MATTER THROUGH MATTER.
For some years past evidence has been obtained by !
observers at spirit circles, that solid matter sometimes passes I
through solid matter under the influence of spirit power;
and permanent proof appears to have been obtained by this j
fact at a seance in London last Saturday, as recorded on j
another page. At that stance a ring of solid ivory was |
linked into a ring of solid wood-, without disruption of either
so far as close examination in daylight has revealed, and the j
rings will doubtless be submitted in Leipzig to observation |
under the microscope during the present week. Meanwhile, j
we take a common-sense view of what is but a variation of 1
a manifestation long common, and provisionally accept the j
reality of the fact.
Then arises the question—What is the philosophy of the j
manifestation ? How is it to be explained ? One step on j
the road to a solution may perhaps be found in the evidence j
given for many years past at spirit circles, of the occasional j
duplication of material forms. One wine glass was once
put beneath a table at a stance recorded by Mr. A. R. !
Wallace, who immediately heard the rattling and clinking
together in every way of two. Mr. Crookes once held Miss
Cook, and saw standing near her the double of herself as a J
spirit form. We'once held Mr. Williams at a seance, and j
saw floating high above him a living double in appearance of i
himself, robed in white drapery. A light was once struck at J
a Davenport seance, and the medium was seen duplicated, ijj
clothes and all. During the recent experiments made by the 11
Research Committee of the British National Association of j j
Spiritualists, while Mr. Williams was on a weighing jj
machine with self-recording apparatus attached, the double j i
in appearance of himself, clothes and all, was busy about |!
the room, and the weight of Mr. Williams varied in an 11
extraordinary way, accompanied probably by complementary j i
changes in the spectral form. Our idea is that there was j!
no “ miracle ” in a physical sense, that the laws of the con- j ]
servation of energy and the indestructibility of matter were | <
not broken, but that there was a kind of see-saw action j
between the two forms, the one increasing in weight as the |
other diminished ; and this theory furnishes the key to some
facts which are now perplexing American Spiritualists, as
set forth more particularly in articles on Mrs. Pickering and j
Mr. Harry Bastian, in The Religio-Philosophical Journal of I
Chicago.
To return to the ring test. We think it probable that a
te ghost ring ” abstracted from one solid ring, began to form [
inside the other ; that as that ring increased in materiality j
and weight, the other correspondingly diminished, till there
was an impalpable imperceptible u ghost-ring ” outside,
which finally was absorbed in the duplicate, after which the I
interlinking was complete. As a practical matter of fact,
there is strong evidence that such actions in connection with j
solid substances go on commonly at spirit circles; but if j
anybody asks how such duplications and recombinations are
effected, a problem is presented which at present we will not }
attempt to solve.
In admitting the fact of the occasional duplication of ]
solid objects, with complementary changes in weight between j
the two forms, it is plain that some of the almost recognised 1
assumptions at the root of elementary physics and chemistry |
must be thrown aside. These new facts do not harmonise j
with the fundamental theory of the infinitely rigid and solid j
atoms of Dalton, nor with the vortex atoms or wirbel- j
bewegung theory of Helmholtz ; they point rather to the j1
conclusion either that the conventional atom is formed by an j!
underlying infinity of unknown phenomena, or that in some j j
such theory as that of Bishop Berkeley the solution of some j j
of the problems connected with the physical universe will i j
'I be found, to the complete overthrow of the scientific
11 Materialist.
Whatever the explanation may be, the fact of the occa-
11 sional duplication of form, not only of particular human
11 beings, but of solid objects near them, is gradually making
j itself clear to many observers. This fact is altogether
| opposed to the experience of those who are experimentally
| acquainted with molecular physics, and with the nature
I of chemical reactions, which physical phenomena would
| consequently seem to be but of a surface nature, governed
i by underlying psychic laws, of which at present we are almost
| entirely ignorant, although they are unexpectedly potent in
j their observed effects.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF MR. THOMAS LAKE HARRIS*
BT 8. B. BRITT AN.
The wonderful gift of improvisation in which Mr. Harris
| so far excels the unaided powers and normal operations of
the human mind, that he may, perhaps, be destined to stand
alone in the literary annals of our time, is by no means the
only evidence that may be adduced to prove that he is a
| medium of communication between the spiritual and natural
| spheres. It may not be uninteresting, or out of place in this
connection, briefly to enumerate some of the phases of his
mediumship, and, as a further illustration of his powers, to
refer to several well authenticated examples. The remark-
| able spiritual clairvoyance which Mr. Harris often exhibits
I does not depend on the influence of mundane conditions or
agents ; it is induced by invisible beings, who lift the veil
from the inner sense, and thus reveal scenes of the immortal
life. In like manner, if we are not mistaken, the power of
j thought-reading is developed, or the faculty of perceiving
I ideas existing in the internals of the human mind. Occa-
| sionally Mr. Harris has been employed by spirits in the
j transmission of a healing power; but the illustrations of
| this phase of his mediumship are not numerous. At times
1 he appears to be so far disconnected from the body that he
j can travel in spirit with great rapidity, visit distant places,
| and have an accurate perception of remote objects and events.
1 It is also alleged that when spirits enter his sphere they
] become visible to others ; that persons of refined habits and
I acute sensation both see and hear them ; that the spirits are
j able to cause atmospheric undulations, and to produce the
| most delicate chemical combinations and sensational impres-
j sions. These operations of the spirits are made manifest to
I the outer senses of men by distinct vibrations, concussions,
| vocal and instrumental music, and also by the diffusion of
| aromas through the natural atmosphere. The phenomenon
| last mentioned occurs less frequently than many others, but
| intrinsically it is no more improbable, since all the simple
| elements of which the aromas consist are every where diffused
| in the earth and atmosphere, and it needs but the subtle
i chemistry of the spirits to so combine them as to render their
presence manifest to the senses. Such are some of the more
important phases of mediumship, as developed in the expe¬
rience of Mr. Harris, which I propose to further illustrate
by particular examples.
In December, 1852, Mrs. C. called upon Mr. Harris, in
the hope of obtaining some evidence of immortality which
might afford her the consolation she needed in a season of
deep affliction. Her husband had departed this life, and
her spirit yearned for the assurance that life was renewed
and love immortal beyond the grave. Mr. Harris knew
nothing of her history, and had no external perception of
the object of her visit; but, becoming entranced in her
presence, all was revealed to him. He informed the lady
that her husband was an officer in the United States Army,
* From the preface to Mr. Thomas Lake Harris’ Zyric of the Golden Age,
50
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 2, 1878.
described his mental and physical peculiarities, his dress,
a scar on his face, and said that he carried a repeater watch,
and was in the frequent habit of applying it to his ear and j
striking the hour. The father of Mrs. 0., an eminent |
divine, was also described on the same occasion, and the |
lady declared that the delineations were in every essential I
particular true to nature and the facts.
During the same month another interesting illustration !
of the author’s mediumship occurred. The name of the
individual and his place of residence are suppressed for i
reasons which will be obvious to the reader. A professional j
gentleman at the South was invited to hear Mr. Harris j
lecture on Spiritualism, but declined, having no faith in the j
alleged manifestations from spirits. On being requested to |
make a personal visit to Mr. Harris he consented, at the same
time affirming that no spirit could reveal the facts in the j
life of the person that purported to communicate, in such a j
manner as to insure identification, as all the phenomena |
were mere psychological hallucinations, which he himself !
could produce at pleasure. This gentleman was accordingly
introduced to Mr. Harris, and after a brief interview, the |
latter—being under the mesmeric influence of some spirit— j
retired to his interior plane of observation. The visitor was i
informed that the spirit of a young female attended him as
a guardian. Her personal appearance, costume, and other
things connected with the life on earth, were described ; the
relation which had previously existed between the gentleman
and his spirit-guardian was intimated; the nature of her j
life and the circumstances of her death were referred j
to;* the spirit also gave him an impressive com- |
munication, indicating her condition in the spirit-world, j
the habits of her earthly friend, and concluded by ad- j
monishing him to reform. At the close of this interview |
the gentleman went away, but not long after called on Mr. ]
Harris again, and related the story of the life and death of j
the young girl whose spirit had so unexpectedly addressed |
him, affirming, at the same time, that he was fully satisfied j
of the truth of Spiritualism from the astonishing accuracy |
of the disclosures through Mr. Harris. The gentleman I
also expressed his conviction that the medium could not !
have derived his impressions by a psychological process from I
his own mind, and that this was rendered evident to him j
from the statement of an important fact respecting the spirit j
which, until that hour, was neither known nor conceived of j
by himself. Since the first interview, a personal investiga- |
tion had fully established in his mind the truth of the j
statement.
While in New Orleans, in February, 1852, our friend the j
author was requested to officiate in his ministerial capacity j
at the funeral of Augustus Wang. After promising to com¬
ply with the request, he was subjected to a powerful spiritual j
influence, and impressed to say that the spirit still preserved I
its connection with the body; that Mr. Wang had a partial J
consciousness of what was going on, but that he would be I
released from his mortal restraints in about thirty-six hours, j
These statements were communicated to the family, and the j
body was thereupon taken from the coffin and placed in bed,
after which faint but distinct signs of life were perceptible, j
Mr. Harris directed a lady to take Mr. Wang by the hand, j
and tell him that T. L. Harris was conscious of his situation, I
and would see that he was not buried alive. The lady did j
so, whereupon Mr. Wang distinctly pressed her hand. He j
remained in that state, without undergoing any apparent j
change, from that morning until the afternoon of the next j
day, when spirits announced that he had left the body, and |
marks of decomposition ensued. j .
Several facts in our author’s experience seem to warrant j j
the inference that the spirit occasionally retires from the | \
sphere of its outward relations, and is so far separated from j)
the body that the animal functions are temporarily sus- i l
pended, while the immortal entity is free to roam abroad I \
through space. An experience of this kind occurred during | >
the winter of 1852. Mr. Harris was one day conversing with j s
an eminent lawyer in New Orleans when he suddenly fell j /
into a lethargy so profound that he was motionless, insen- j j
sible, and apparently lifeless. He remained in this condi- j (
tion about twenty minutes. On returning, he stated that he j ?
appeared to himself—as a spirit—to have gone in person to 11
a place at the North, where he had previously resided, and
M to have ascertained the contents of a letter which had
11 reached the Post-office in that place' by the mail of that
11 day. Mr. Harris mentioned the date of the letter, stated
'| that it had been written by a gentleman in Griffin, Ga.,
11 under the erroneous impression that he was still at the
11 North, and that it contained a request to take Griffin in his
11 way, and to deliver a course of lectures in that place, should
! j he visit the South during the winter. Mr. Harris was so
11 well satisfied that the invitation thus spiritually received
had really emanated from citizens of Griffin, that without
hesitation he resolved to comply with the request, and
accordingly went to that place. The Rev. A. Buckner testifies
| that Mr. Harris, on his arrival at Griffin, stated that he had
received their invitation, also the singular manner in which
1 their wishes were made known to him. His impressions
| were found to agree with the facts, precisely such a letter
having been written and sent in the wrong direction.
The friends of Mr. Harris relate a still more striking fact
| of a similar kind. Early in the month of June, 1853,
j while the medium was in Western Virginia, he passed into
| the same condition, and remained for several hours. When
| his external consciousness was restored, he said that he had
visited New Orleans, accompanied by a spirit-guide. After
| seeing his friends in that city, he was requested by the
spirit to go with him to a strange place. He complied, and
! after travelling a short distance found himself on a level
road, bordered on either side by swampy ground covered
with shrubbery. At the right there was a small canal, and
I a building with a tall chimney. The guide called his atten-
| tion to these objects, and bade him recollect what he had
seen, saying, emphatically, u Remember there are the water¬
's works.” He travelled on about three miles when he ap-
| proached the entrance to an extensive cemetery. The
| massive gateway was in the Egyptian style of architecture,
and apparently constructed of granite blocks. He was
I requested to pause, and stand upon one of the piers; he
did so, and the guide then made the following com¬
munication :*—
“ The yellow fever is about to prevail in this city, and
from ten to fifteen thousand persons will be deposited,
during the summer and autumn, in these grounds. The
bodies will be buried so carelessly, and the coffins will be
| covered so sparsely with earth, that the ground will crack
I open by the heat of the summer sun, and make visible that
which is below.”
In the spring of 1854< Mr. Harris visited New Orleans in
person. While in that city, he on one occasion mentioned
to a circle of friends the occurrence just related, and observed
that he would have supposed that his former visit was not
1 imaginary but real, had he not known that they had no
j waterworks, and been informed that the entrance to the
cemetery was made of wood instead of granite. On the
afternoon of the same day, Mr. Harris was invited to visit
the cemetery in company with a friend. He soon found
himself on the identical avenue he had formerly traversed
in spirit with his angelic guide. He saw the same building
he had been told to remember as the waterworks, and his
friend informed him that it was used in draining the city.
Pursuing the same road three miles further, he arrived at
the cemetery, and found that the principal entrance was
constructed after the Egyptian order, and corresponded in
appearance to his vision. It is only necessary to add that
the victims of the pestilence of 1853 were buried so densely,
and so near to the surface, in portions of that enclosure,
that the remains were here and there visible through small
fissures of the earth.
In the summer of 1853, Mr. Harris, in company with two
other gentlemen, whose names are in the writer’s possession,
was induced to visit an unsettled and mountainous region
in the northern part of the Empire State, for the purpose of
trout-fishing. They were obliged to camp out in the woods
over night, during which the whole party was exposed to a
heavy rain. On the following morning, in attempting to
retrace their steps, they were lost in a wide and trackless
forest. After wandering until they were quite exhausted,
one of the number proposed to ask if their guardian angels
* This singular experience occurred before publicity was given to the fact—through
outward channels accessible to the mediuni—that the terrible epidemic of 1853 was ap¬
proaching, and which resulted in the death of more than ten thousand persons.
Aug. 2, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
.51
could direct them out of the forest. In a few moments the
right arm of Mr. Harris began to oscillate like the needle
of a compass, and sp.on became rigidly fixed in one direction.
They were then informed by the spirit-friends of the medium
that his arm was controlled by their agency, and that, by
pursuing the course thus indicated, they would soon reach
the point of destination. This instruction from the invisible
guides was implicitly followed, and in as straight a line as
could be drawn they were conducted to the very place they
had most desired to find.
In January, 1854, while Mr. Harris was in New Orleans,
he was one day conversing with a Mr. Robbins—an entire
stranger—when he was suddenly entranced, and proceeded
to introduce and identify several of Mr. Robbins’s departed
relatives. Among the number was a distinguished soldier,
who was killed in the attack on Quebec; his military cos¬
tume, and the distinguishing traits of character were
described; several of the more interesting facts of his
private history were mentioned, and the circumstances of
his death disclosed ; he was in the front rank of the assailants,
and fell by a cannon shot. These statements were con¬
firmed by Mr. Robbins, in whose mind they were sacred
recollections.
On the same day the spirits produced an unusual
phenomenon in the presence of Mr. Harris, with the recital
of which we must conclude these evidences of his medium-
ship. The phenomenon to which I refer consisted in pro¬
jecting, through the mediatorial sphere of Mr. Harris, the
essential properties or essences of various spices and aromatic
gums—camphor being most apparent—into the external
atmosphere, so that, first the spacious room where Mr.
Robbins and the medium were sitting, and finally every
room in the house (a large three-storey building), was filled
with aromas. On examination it was found that no cam¬
phor or other substances capable of diffusing an odour were
in the house. It was said that this manifestation was given
by an Israelite who had been for several centuries in the
spirit-world, and whose employment on earth had been that
of a dealer in spices, silks, and precious stones.
THE RING TEST.
BY CHRISTIAN REIMERS.
In anticipation of a detailed report from Herr Gillis him¬
self, after his return to St. Petersburg, I give an outline of
a succession of splendid results, culminating in a demon¬
stration which forms an “ event” in the development of our
science.
A few weeks ago I received a letter from Herr Gillis,
then in Paris, requesting me, on the recommendation of
Professor Zdllner, of Leipzig, and Herr Wiese, of Wies¬
baden, to aid him in the further investigation of Spiritualistic
phenomena, some of which he already accepted as established
facts, after several sittings with f)r. Slade at Professor
Zollner’s. If these names alone had not inspired me to do
all in my power, the spirit of the letter of Mr. Gillis laid
the foundation of my confidence in his love of truth as his only
motive. My hope for marked results in a given time was
somewhat shaken when I learned that my friend desired a
special phenomenon, and that one the interlinking of two
solid unbroken rings of different materials, to form per¬
manent and portable proof of the 11 new force.” Vain
attempts of mine had been made for years in this direction
in many powerful circles. I once had for months two rings
cut out of different pieces of printed paper on my seance
table. I urged Mr. Gillis to give up all hope, as the time
for such immense tests seemed not ripe. To my surprise
Herr Gillis informed me that an analogous result had
already been obtained through Dr. Slade’s mediumship.
On Thursday, the 18th July, we went to Mr. Williams,
at his semi-public evening seance, where the fine manifesta¬
tions satisfied him of good results of some kind, even if the
desired one should not be granted; and his cheerful resigna¬
tion pleased me much, because mental conditions are such
at seances, that eager and concentrated expectation towards
one end has a deterrent effect. A sitting at Mr. and Mrs.
Herne’s the next day was likewise highly interesting, and
acquaintance made with u James Lombard.” Both mediums,
Mr. Williams and Mr. Herne (with Mrs. Herne), were at once
engaged for five private sittings, one every day, but the
difficulty of finding suitable hours was readily met by the
mediums agreeing to sit together. The first of the seances
came off on Monday last week. I was present on all occasions
except one, when Herr Gillis was quite alone with Mr. and
Mrs. Herne, and obtained tremendous tests, surpassing all
he had had before. At lunch in his hotel (the Royal Hotel,
Blackfriars), where he took the mediums, a roll of paper was
thrown at his feet from his locked portmanteau in his locked
bed-room, and this was but one among other strong items.
On the Monday Herr Gillis brought to our seance a number
of small rings of ivory, wood, and also of paper, and a piece of
leather with strips cut within its margin, to receive knots
like those already given to Professor Zdllner in a common
cord with sealed ends. “Peter” made us feel in the dark
something like knots, but on examination they proved to be
slip knots only, so strongly tied that it took some time to
undo them, and then presented only a proof of clever finger-
work, with a touch of suspicion that he had been playing || a
lark,” or did not clearly comprehend the nature of the original
demand. Then the ends of a cord were sealed by Herr Gillis,
| and to his delight a knot was made in it, but so tightly
| drawn that it took a long time in plucking open to show a
I real knot, as obtained through Slade with Professor Zollner,
| and in London through Eglinton. A repetition of this
i resulted in three true knots on the same cord, and seemed to
| revive the hopes of Herr Gillis, and to inspire ours, although
| Peter, in a tone of despair, seemed not to believe in the
possibility of his interlinking the rings. Beautiful
I materialisations of spirits, and other marvels, now and then
| diverted us. After vainly searching for my umbrella in Mr.
Herne’s room, it suddenly dropped to my feet, Mr. Herne
putting his finger to his mouth and crying : “ It hurt me !”
Herr Gillis felt something pushed gently into his inside
breast pocket, and when a light was struck he discovered his
| note-book, which he positively declared to have left in his
locked portmanteau at his hotel. We were not sitting for
these phenomena, and the spirits were evidently keeping
their thread of action in hand themselves, doing all things in
their own way. It struck me, as I know not the nature of
their intelligence, that Peter might not have perfectly under-
j stood the word “interlinking” in relation to our request
II about the rings, for once he gave us a paper ring cut in two
u in a remarkable way, and spirally, all done in the dark—a
! wonderful performance in itself. So I advised Herr Gillis
| to really interlink two paper rings, by cutting open one and
> pasting its ends together, after threading it on the other, to
I show Peter by ocular demonstration “ the look of the thing.”
[ “ Oh ! I see what you mean!” Peter said, with his peculiarly
* melancholy tone of doubt. “ Can’t be done !” he sadly con-
! tinued. But the other spirits encouraged us, although
[ they said that it might not be accomplished this time. Again
* Herr Gillis declared himself perfectly satisfied with what he
! had already obtained, and kept up the harmony by the
; | kindest remarks to the spirits and attention to the
II mediums, the only way to get the best results.
Herr Gillis next invited the mediums to a friendly supper
;! in his room. Mr. and Mrs. Herne could not come, so Mrs.
* | and Mr. Williams and myself were the only guests, besides
the spirit “ Peter,” who partook of some champagne to wash
;! down the piece of fowl handed to him under the table, both
the liquid and the solid substances being dematerialised only,
as he explained on being asked how he managed to cause
them to disappear. Other remarkable facts which occurred
the same evening I pass by, and come to last Friday morn¬
ing’s sitting, when Mr. Rita joined the already strong force
| of mediums, after having delighted us with a splendid
seance the previous evening. On this occasion, after giving
I manifestations which greatly pleased Herr Gillis, John King
wound up with a fine slate-writing test under absolute con-
! ditions. Herr Gillis had his hands on the double slate, and
we all plainly heard the writing produced, which runs thus :—
| “ My dear friends,—We have done our best for you.
| We will still try to do more to-morrow. For you, friend
Reimers, there is good time coming. God bless you all.
| —John King.”
In the course of this seance I asked Peter why the test was
] so difficult. He replied: “ If two bodies have thus to bo
52
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 2, 1878.
interlinked, one should be big and strong to resist the action
of the power.”
On Saturday last we had the farewell sitting, and all the
four mediums seemed happy. The table was covered with
refreshments, and seemed to claim a share in the last and
crowning success. After several toasts, I expressed our
thanks to John King, and my hope that all would now give
him the lead in further proceedings. We went into the dark
room, and no sooner was the light out than a perfect uproar
ensued, and hammering and other noises began, impossible
to describe. After John King ordered a light, we found the
greater number of the wooden rings smashed like nutshells.
This seemed to me a proof of the presence of great physical
force. The deafening tumult contrasted with our own states
of mind, which were cool and serious. After resuming our
seats, we did not expect much after the sight of the smashed
rings. Peter or Charlie invited my attention to two rings,
asking me to feel them interlinked, which I did ; so also did
Herr Gillis. “ It won’t keep,” Peter said, sadly, and he
withdrew when we considered victory achieved. Again a
hammering ensued, like a real carpenter’s shop, and Peter
exclaimed, (( There! There I There ! Reimers ! take hold
of the ring! Mr. Gillis ! hold it too! Don’t let go 1
Stick to it!”—and to be sure no power in the world would
have forced our hands from this couple of rings. All the
spirit voices were a-going until the signal for a light came,
and there we had in our possession the two rings united.
The effect was impressive alike to mediums and investi¬
gators.
After having on the road exhibited the new wonder to
several friends, we went to a photographer to have a truthful
picture secured of the strange phenomenon of a wooden and
an ivory ring, each in one piece, interlinked, and forming a
stone which the engine of science must either crack or itself
leave the rails. Two rings, one of which could be cast,
would be nothing; but before our rings either the charge of
trickery must break down, or the brain insisting on trickery.
Who was the medium ? None ; but all united, perhaps the
whole circle; and with pleasure all we witnesses will inter¬
link Dr. Slade’s name also with this success, for he has
obtained something of the same kind. With a few more
such results, many hostile elements may be harmonised, and
science and religion may be interlinked, to be separated only
by the destruction of the one or the other.
MESMERIC HEALING.
In addition to the certificates given last week, we publish
the following letters addressed to Mr. Omerin, of 5, North-
umberland-street, Strand, London, and handed by him to
us for publication:—
British Museum, 20th October, 1877.
Mf dear Sir,—After the many cures which you have effected,
you will not be surprised that I should assure you of the good effect of
your manipulations upon my eyes.
The result is certainly remarkable.
Why do you not use your power professionally ? Surely you might
do so without fear of being thought a charlatan.
You can point to eo many extraordinary results, that your proceed¬
ings would soon ensure respect even among the superstitious.—Yours
very truly, R. H. Gaunter.
The following letter is from a gentleman holding a
position in the City, who, however, does not wish his name
published, although he is anxious to bear testimony to the
cure effected. He is known to the President of the British
National Association of Spiritualists :—
20th May, 1878.
Bear Sir,—I have great pleasure in bearing testimony to a cure
of an attack of gout last winter performed by your hands. I had for
some days been suffering; my left knee was swollen and highly in¬
flamed, so much so that it could not be bent without agony. Indeed,
so helpless was I, that I could not get out of bed without assistance.
You came, and for about an hour made passes over the parts affected,
and brought immediate relief. The pain rapidly subsided ; and in
the evening of the same day I was able, to the astonishment of my
family, to walk down stairs to dinner.—I am, dear sir, yours truly,
J. B. W.
Royal Adelaide Gallery, Adelaide-street, Strand, 30th May, 1878.
Bear Sir,—As you desire that I should state all that occurred in
respect to my illness and cure, I give the following account-
1 was suffering the most acute rheumatic pain in the left leg in such
a^iannerasto be unable to move, and was quite in despair. You
| j | passed your hands for fifteen minutes over my leg, and the pain
) i entirely disappeared. I rose full of joy, found myself able to walk
/ | without any difficulty, and said to you, “ Have you magic in your
( hands ?”
) _ You repeated the operation on the following day to complete the
) cure, since which time until now (nineteen months) not the least
! j rheumatic pain has returned.
| j Beeply grateful to you, I have much pleasure in giving you this
] ( I testimony, and remain, dear sir, yours respectfully,
I ( ! Benedetti Giacinto.
I j | 18th May, 1877.
| > | Sir,—In complying with your request, I beg to state that, when
I) | suffering from very severe rheumatic pain in my legs, I asked you the
:) | favour of treating me. You kindly called upon me, and by passing
I / j your hands several times over the affected parts, within a few minutes
I ( I the pain was gone, and I was able to walk very well,
jj | After a second operation the pain left me entirely, and since then
i | j I have felt quite cured.
K I take this opportunity of thanking you very much for your most
I \ j efficacious treatment.
i) j I have the honour to be, sir, your obedient servant,
| ( i A. Rossetti, Civil Engineer.
SPONTANEOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
HI BY ELIZA BOUCHER.
j j The next cases of the above phenomena which I shall bring
i > | before the notice of the readers of The Spiritualist help to
| ( | show:—1st. How far more widely the faculty of clairvoyance
| j is distributed than is popularly imagined. 2nd. How ex-
| | tremely erratic and uncertain are its manifestations. 3rd.
II I That it does not always require the stimulus of any great
11 | mental excitement to call it into action. The following was
j | told me by a respectable woman of Torquay. I am not
i | certain whether the impression was given in her sleeping or
! j waking moments, but she was strongly possessed with the
11 | idea that her husband had met with an accident, and would
i | | be brought home in a blue fly. So great was her moral
II | certainty of the truth of her vision, that on looking from the
| | window, and seeing a vehicle of that description approaching
|| 1 she immediately prepared for the reception of the injured
j j man, who, in a few minutes, was brought to her door in the
| | very vehicle she had seen in her clairvoyant vision.
| j The following was given me by the daughter of the
| | seeress, and took place in Wiltshire. The subject of this
| | strange experience was at the time of its occurrence prostrate
| I with typhoid fever, and whilst in that state two of her
j I children died of the same fell disease; though no one men-
11 tioned the distressing circumstance to her, she was perfectly
| J aware of it. But stranger still are the following facts :—
! The invalid before her illness had shown great sympathy to
! a poor neighbour who had been unkindly treated by her own
1 relatives. During the attack of typhoid, Mrs. E ■ ■ - (as we
j j will call her) had a frightful vision of her friend going over
III walls and “ flinging down the stones as she went.” She
j cried out to her attendants, u Save her ! Save her! She’ll be
j drowned !” In this case again the awful vision was realised.
| Her poor friend committed suicide by drowning, and it was
j found that to gain access to the piece of water where her
rash purpose was accomplished, she had actually gone over
some low garden walls, where the loose stones had been
thrown down by her in her dark passage to a self-chosen
watery grave. I know the daughter well, and she has often
heard her mother speak of these, to her, inexplicable
phenomena.
In this case we may imagine that rapport between the
brains, and the strong mental excitement attendant on
disease, might have quickened this wonderful faculty into
intense activity ; but the following little incident which
| j happened to a near relative of mine proves that these two
j conditions are not always necessary to this end.
| My relative dreamt one night that a gossip of the neigh-
| bourhood called and announced (taking his usual liberties with
j the Queen’s English) that a Mrs. H , a person with
| whom the dreamer had scarcely even a passing acquaintance,
| had presented her husband with “ two twins.”. After break-
/ ;! fast, a servant on return from the town announced, as the
| latest piece of country news, that Mrs. H had actually
I given birth to twins, verifying the dream in detail by using
I the very words “ two twins,” which my relative so distinctly
j remembered in her vision of the night.
1 j Albion Villa, Fremantle-square, Bristol.
Aug. 2, 1878.
$ HE SPIRITUALIST*
53
“ THERE IS SOMETHING IN IT.”
BY F. CLAVAIROZ, CONSUL-GENERAL OF FRANCE.
An article in the July number of La Religion Lciique closes with
these significant words: “ Since learned men, physicians, and the
Protestant clergy give so much zealous study to Spiritualism, it is
probably because they see in it the beginning of something better.’,
Yes, certainly there is something in it, and that something, which is
about to overrun the world, presents in its phenomena, in its slow
progress, and in its aims, a striking analogy to the beginnings of
Christianity.
The teaching of Jesus contained no dogmas, neither does that of
Spiritualism.
Christianity came at a time when the religious beliefs of Paganism
were breaking up all over the world; the mass of the people were
casting them aside through indifference, and the learned and thoughtful
through the strength of their reason.
Spiritualism comes at a time when Catholicism has enveloped itself
in the winding-sheet of the Syllabus ; whilst Protestantism, divided
into an infinite number of sects, is leading to an utter disunion of
thought; when the Mahometans are drinking wine and making consti¬
tutions—two things forbidden by the Koran; and even the Jews them¬
selves have their free-thinkers.
It is in the tnidst of this general confusion of old beliefs that
Spiritualism first appears.
Christianity began by miracles; and if the miracles worked by Jesus
were made the first steps of the Christian power, it is because the
senses are like sentinels on guard, ready to rouse the sleeping intelli¬
gence. The best means of carrying conviction is by such involuntary
testimony as can find an entrance into even the densest organism. The
seal which is given' to the records of fact produces surprise, emotion,
and interest. Reflecting minds, under the impression of a fact thus
demonstrated, feel the need of inquiry into its cause, and examination
thus with one bound enters along the path which sense has opened to it,
making the facts which have been recognised by an unconscious j (j
sensory perception pass within the domain of reason.
Intended to act upon the masses, it was necessary that the religion ! j
founded by" Christ should give some material proof: it was for this j j
reason, then, that it was built upon miracles. The progress of human | (i
knowledge varies but little in the elements at the heart of which it ! (!
operates. Christianity works through its miracles, and Spiritualism is |)!
revealed by the aid of its phenomena, two parallel words given to 11!
describe the same facts; but the change in their signification gives us | (|
an accurate measure of the progress made by the spirit of man during j j j
eighteen hundred years. ] j j
A miracle is superior to natural law. The Divine Will governs, orders, (i
and suppresses the latter at its pleasure. The phenomenon, on the j
contrary, obeys the law. It is only the result of a law as yet unknown j j
or misunderstood. The experience of ages proves that this alone is pos- (|
sible. No one now believes in the suspension of a law of nature. All | j
laws have their raison d'etre, and it is the uninterrupted fulfilment of (I
their function which constitutes the harmony of the universe. {j
The “ something ^ of which I first spoke is then the seed of a new )\
religion, or, rather, it is the return back through the last eighteen j (|
hundred years to the religion conceived by Christ—namely, a belief in j | j
God and in individual immortality ; in the responsibility laid upon us j j
by our deeds, and in the progression of the soul in wisdom, power, and ! j
love throughout eternity.
This, then, is what Spiritualism announces to the world; this is its j
mission, to strip otf from the evangelical teaching all the material 111
wrappings which have since the time of its birth encased it, so that it /
may act efficiently in our midst. No more creeds, no more mediation, j (j
no more ceremonies appealing only to the senses, but direct communion | (j
of the soul with God, leading to progression without end in the midst | j j
of acts of love.
This is a beautiful prospect, without doubt. But the careless world | j
would never have been brought to look into the subject if matter had not ) j
been brought into the work. Thus one sees that everywhere furniture j j j
begins to move, and, even when loaded with enormous weights, rises in ] j ]
the air. Tables ran about wildly, without contact. Raps are heard on j)!
all sides, on the walls, the furniture, the floors. Then, after this first j \ j
phase, which is exclusively material, intelligence begins to show itself. ) j
The raps are intelligently regulated; they take the character of personal j |
communications, and the possibility of communion between the visible (!
and the invisible worlds becomes a great novelty, upsetting all customary ) j
ideas, but opening a door to eternity. The soul no longer hesitates to (|
cross the threshold, because it is attracted by the grand conceptions of | j
God free from all anthropomorphism, and by visions of the gradual \ ]
ascent of the human race, gravitating towards infinite perfection. j S
Then an interesting spectacle presents itself to the eyes of the atten- ) j
tive observer. For as fast as Spiritualism gains ground, so do the phe- 11
nomena change in their character. There is progress as the phenomena (i
spread. Little by little the mere material part gives place to the psychical, j j
or the physical manifestations become impregnated with spirituality. The 11
tables continue to give their proof of unknown laws at work, at the j!
same time that the mediums receive inspiration mechanically or | >
intuitively, the source being far beyond their own power or j |
knowledge. Then by degrees arises a fresh development, calculated to (j
popularise the movement; common men become healers and orators, I |j
and science begins to take into consideration the new facts, and to prove (]
the truth of the strange phenomena. Known laws are overcome by j i
others; solid bodies pass through other solid bodies. Things are j i
brought from no one knows where, musical instruments are played !j
without contact, direct writing is obtained inside closed and sealed I
slates, and finally the inhabitants of another world again take on a |
physical form, come amongst us for a moment, live again our material [ j
life, moving, speaking, drinking, and vanishing at last, to wear again
i {i their fluidic bodies, and giving us thus, by their re- appearance, proof
j ) | positive that after death they live and retain their individuality,
i {| This is something, is it not ? And the movement is progressing.
I To-day the belief in an invisible world is spreading over all parts of the
; globe; no other equally new creed has so many journals. No other has
shown such a tendency to become popular. Never have principles more
pure been proclaimed. Never has a call, more constant, more earnest,
more harmonious been made. Never through the world has rung
before so grand a cry of love.
Worn-out society, oscillating between the past and the future, tossed
about like a ship without a pilot, not knowing on what to fix its hopes,
i (] shuddering at the sight of its hidden perils, destroying like a useless
! I i garment all that has hitherto made up its moral force, reduced to quiet
i | j itself by the intoxication of material pleasure—one would have thought
| j i that the “ glad tidings ” would have been received like the hope of new
I > I life. But it has not been so. Society leagued itself against the birth
I j I of this new faith.
| j i Science again, for the most part, believes in nothing but mere force,
|) [ and revolts against any demonstration of a first cause. It does not trouble
! ( j about it, convinced that its silence is sufficient to stop the movement.
| j I The world, composed chiefly of superficial people in love with their
!) j easy mode of life, without faith, and fearful of the trouble that research
; ( i may give them, remains indifferent, or treats the matter with ridicule.
| ) | The press—which initiates all our organisations, and which ought to
| ) | have a conscience if it is to teach the truth—the press lacks courage to
; \ \ put on one side the verdict of learned men, and to doubt their expres-
| ) I sions of irony, so is forced to treat the facts with sarcasm, or to keep
j / 1 an absolute silence, which shall be its shame in the future. It will be
i (i asked, by-and-by, how it could disregard facts so plain as those which I
| ; have cited. What! The press throughout every country in Europe;
j} ! the press whose mission it is to spread that which is useful, and io
assist the march of progress and discovery, has nothing but silence or
disdainful words for a movement which has penetrated to the very heart
of society. And the astonishment will be greater as we examine the
moral and humanitarian side of this new truth.
All thinkers, economists, and politicians agree that our present
society is passing through a great crisis. Man has lost his way, and
travels blindly, hoping to stumble on the right road. Moral laws are
like to physical laws. Unity reigns over all, and maintains its
equilibrium in the midst of seeming disorder. The seed must perish in
giving birth to the new plant. Decay everywhere precedes life. It is
because we are journeying towards a higher stage that we see falling
around us all that belongs to the past. There is fermentation going on ;
at the bottom there is future renovation; and the agitation causes
an undue excitement of animal passions.
Catholicism wages its last battle, under the banner of temporal power,
to the detriment of human liberty. In politics, might controls right.
The most sacred engagements, the most solemn treaties, are put aside
if they stand in the way of self-interest, suppressing the popular voice
on all moral questions. In the world material pleasures, the need of
making a great appearance, the sway of the passions, all menace the
destruction of honour, chastity, and faithfulness. The outcasts, whose
eyes are fascinated by the inequalities of wealth through which they
suffer, begin to number their adherents and to unite. On the day when
they have organised, and when the similitude of their interest has
extinguished all national jealousies, this great crowd will rise, and all
Europe will tremble.
But, behold, Spiritualism rises above all, bright with a glory from
heaven, and cries:—
“ Stay, my brothers! I am Love ! Yes, the love of the resurrection ;
for the love which I preach shall reign upon the earth, and flourish
during eternity. And in the home I would enforce parental authority,
the chastity of the mother, the obedience of the child ; for I preach the
immortality of the soul, and personal responsibility for all acts. To
those who suffer I advise resignation; for suffering leads to purification,
and purification is recompense. To those who bewail the lost,
heaven is opened, so that these may return to console the mourners. I
overcome death, by the material proof of these apparitions. A double
conquest, for the fear of death troubles their consciences, and the cer¬
tainty that they shall live again makes devotees. To the incredulous,
to all who seek, I furnish the elements of incontrovertible conviction.
I open to science new fields of thought, and my inspiration enables her
to reach them.
“ I sit at the tribunal of the directors of the people, showing them the
false work they have engaged in, in taking selfishness for their guide
instead of solidarity. To the people ready to engage in a suicidal strife
to revenge their sufferings or appease their hate, I cry unceasingly,
‘ You are brothers, and only form one family in the sight of God ; your
souls come from the same source and await the same end, for happiness
on earth as in heaven is not in strife but in love, not in vengeance bul
in unity of heart and work. ’ ”
This is what Spiritualism preaches. And this is what the world will
be when its voice is heard. If humanity has felt an undeniable moral
depression by abandoning the ideal of the gradual attainment of happi¬
ness, it will rise great and strong when it understands its error, and
the idea of God shall again take its place in the thoughts of mankind ;
and the belief in the immortality of the soul, in personal responsibility,
and the happiness that springs from universal solidarity shall shine in
its turn upon the earth, and shall lead a step forward in the march of
progress. This day will come, and will not tarry, and it behoves all
Spiritualists to hasten its coming by working with ardour, holding in
common their souls, their science, and their love.
Krouz Kirche, par Neuwied, Prussia. July 26th, 1878.
Can anybody furnish us with information in what books or periodicals (with
their dates, titles, and places of publication) the spontaneous manifestations were
recorded which happened in the family of Dr. Phelps in America about 1850 ?
54
Aug. 2, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
A PERMANENT “ MIRACLE” FOR PUBLIC EXAMINATION.
A SOLID KING OF IVORY AND A SOLID KING OF WOOD INTERLINKED BY
SPIRITS "WITHOUT BREAKAGE.
THE PASSAGE OF MATTER THROUGH MATTER.
Solid objects have not unfrequently been passed through
other solid objects at stances, but the evidence of the fact
has hitherto been limited to the weight of the testimony of
the witnesses. One of the best of the well-authenticated
cases occurred with the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, of St.
Petersburg, during his last visit to London to investigate
spiritual phenomena. A thick welded iron ring, eight or
nine inches in diameter, was u threaded” on his arm by
spirits, while he held the hand of Mr. Williams, the medium.
As this was done in the dark, he took olf the ring when a
light was struck ; then by permission of the spirits grasped
the hand of Mr. Williams again, tied the wrists of thejoined
hands together in a secure way with tape, then put out the
light, and asked the spirits to thread the ring on his arm
once more. This they did. M. Aksakof next took the
ring off his arm in the light, and asked Mr. Williams if he
might keep it; permission to retain the ring as evidence of
its homogeneousness was given, and it was taken by M,
Aksakof to St. Petersburg.
For some three or four years past various Spiritualists
have occasionally taken solid rings, turned out of different
kinds of wood, to stances, in the hope of getting them inter¬
linked, because the accomplishment of such a feat being
beyond the power of man, the rings themselves would be
permanent evidence of the reality of the manifestation, and
no error arising in human testimony could affect the result.
But the manifestation was not obtained, and this raised the |
hypothesis whether it was not a matter of necessity that j
one of the substances used in the presentation of the j
phenomenon should be, like the human arm, a portion of a j
living organism.
But more recently, as published in the Daily Telegraph, |
the Quarterly Journal of Science, and The Spiritualist, Herr j
Zollner, Professor of Astronomy at Leipzig University, ob- j
tained in broad daylight four knots upon an endless cord in
the presence of Henry Slade, whose hands were in sight all
the time. The knots were of such a nature that no mortal
could have made them without having free ends of the cord
to pass through the preparatory loops. The knots cannot
now be untied without first cutting the cord. In this ex¬
periment solid matter was passed through solid matter, no j
portion of which belonged to a living organism.
Since then Professor Zollner has obtained more remarkable |
results still, which, however, we are not at liberty to publish,
in deference to his expressed desire that they shall first be j
made known in the second volume of his book now in the j
press.
But last Saturday a result which crowns all was obtained j
in London, a ring of solid natural ivory being linked by
spirits into a ring of wood.
Mr. Julius Gillis, of Wassili Ostrow, 1st Line No. 36, j
St. Petersburg, having recently been convinced of the reality
of spiritual phenomena by Henry Slade, has since been
travelling in Europe to see all the additional manifestations i
he could. He recently came to London from Leipzig, where J
he had attended some of Professor Zollner’s stances, and he !
placed himself in communication with a well-known Spirit- !
ualist, Herr Christian Reimers, of 47, Mornington-road, j
N.W. Mr. Reimers then kindly gave time and attention,
and introduced him to various mediums and their stances. I
Mr. Gillis 'brought some solid rings to the stances with him ; !
one of them was of ivory, the others made in unbroken
pieces of various woods, and he wanted any two of these
interlinked. This feat was not accomplished at the earlier j
seances, although he witnessed other manifestations of a j
remarkable kind. But last Saturday morning, at a dark j
seance at which the four mediums—Mr, Williams, Mr. Rita, j
Mr. Herne, and Mrs. Herne, were present, in addition to the
two investigators—Mr. Gillis and Herr Reimers, the ring of
ivory, which Mr. Gillis had brought with him from the
Continent, was linked into a ring of wood.
At 1.15 p.m., after the seance was over, the two witnesses
brought the interlinked rings to Mr. Harrison at The Spirit¬
ualist office. Inspection in strong daylight failed to show
I! any trace of a joint, even as fine as a hair line, in either of
11 the rings. The one ring was of finely polished natural ivory;
J'j the other a common wooden curtain ring, varnished, with the
11 natural grain of the wood everywhere clearly visible. Mr.
[ | Gillis left the same afternoon for Leipzig with the rings,
i i where the best thing which he could do with them would be
| to have a thin shaving taken off one side of each, all the way
| round, in the presence of all the Professors at the University,
! who could then submit to microscopic observation the two
annular areas laid bare. No artificial joint could escape
detection beneath such microscopic examination, and the
| continuity of the cellular fabric of both wood and ivory could
| be ocularly traced. But so far as critical observation with-
j out the aid of a microscope can give information, there is no
| doubt that the two solid rings have been interlinked.
When Mr. Gillis left The Spiritualist office, he sent a
telegram to Professor Zollner, of which the following is a
j translation :—
! After getting in former sittings direct writing, and three knots like
| yours in an endless cord, I have just had my ivory ring interlinked in a
wooden one. Julius Gillis from St. Petersburg. In the presence of
j the mediums Mr. Williams, Mr. and Mrs. Herne, and Mr. Rita, with
] the additional presence of Mr. Christian Reimers.
This is the second great new scientific phenomenon ob-
| served this year, which ought to have been first published in
| The Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, but
| which is missing from those pages in consequence of the
| neglect of public and scientific duty on the part of the
I Society in not investigating psychic phenomena, and in
| officially rejecting the paper once sent in to it by Mr.
| Crookes, containing some of the simpler and more elementary
facts. The other great discovery of the year, missing from
the pages of Philosophical Transactions, is that the body of
an adult medium varies so in weight during strong physical
manifestations that at times it amounts but to forty or fifty
| pounds, as indicated by automatic self-registering apparatus.
| Whatever theory anybody may apply to the phenomenon,
| the observed fact is of transcendent interest.
The circumstance is significant, and will long discredit
English science, that when the rings were interlinked they
were at once taken to the Professors at Leipzig, no repre¬
sentatives of any scientific body in London being now
generally employed in the investigation of psychic
phenomena.
Mr. Gillis and Herr Christian Reimers had the rings
photographed, true size, before they were taken to Leipzig,
and one of the prints can be seen at The Spiritualist Branch
Office. Although the photographing is not of the worst
quality, neither is it of the best, for at the top of the
picture are faint line markings, due to the projecting edge
of the “ dipper” having caused the nitrate of silver solution
to play in unequal streams against the collodion film when
it was lowered into the bath.
The word miracle” at the beginning of this article is
j not used in the sense that there is any infraction of law in
| the interlinked rings phenomenon. Natural laws, not yet
| understood, govern spiritual phenomena.
| A PRIVATE SEANCE.
Last Sunday night a private stance took place at the
residence of Miss Ottley, 41, Denbigh-street, Belgravia,
London. Mr. Rita was the medium, and the guests
present were seated round a table in the following order :
—Mr. Rita, Mr. W. S. Inglefield, Miss Emmet, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Miss Laura Emmet, Mr. James Hope, Mr. G.
Ottley, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. G. Y. Robson, and
Miss Ottley. Thus Mr. Rita was held by the hands all
through the stance by Miss Ottley on the one side of him,
I and Mr. Inglefield on the other; the remaining sitters had
their hands interlinked.
Under these conditions playing musical instruments flew
| about like bats in the locked and darkened drawing-room,
occasionally touching every sitter present gently on the
| head in their flight. All present were also occasionally
| touched by materialised spirit hands. The bust of a living
| form robed in white was seen for a moment over the table
i by all present, as it illuminated itself with a flash of light
55
Aug. 2. 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST.
from something held in its hands. An accordion in the
lap of Mr. Robson was taken thence at his request, and
afterwards played upon triumphantly in mid air. A heavy
arm-chair was floated over the heads of the sitters and
deposited on the table. A very heavy ornamental steel
fender was next placed with one of its ends in the lap of
Mr. Robson, a disbelieving barrister, the other end pro¬
jecting over the table at an angle of about forty-five
degrees. Next a chair was placed horizontally on his
shoulders, with his head between the rails and legs. The
tongs and other fire-irons were placed on the table, and all
these things were found in the position described when a
light was struck. Mr. Rita was in a state of trance almost
all through the seance, and his hands from first to last were
never free.
Conjurers who impose upon the public by saying that
their tricks are the same as spiritual manifestations, never
go alone like this to a private house among responsible
people, and permit their hands to be held. from first
to last.
SAVAGE MODES OE PRAYER.
The Sioux Indians, abusing their Great Spirit for sending them
storms, or the Kamschadals cursing Kutka for having created the
mountains so high and the streams so rapid, expose a state of thought
relating to the gods which is most difficult to reconcile with the savage’s
habitual dread of them, but which is too well authenticated to admit of
doubt. Franklin saw a Cree hunter tie offerings (a cotton handkerchief,
looking-glass, tin pin, some ribbon, and tobacco) to the value of twenty
skins, round an image of the god Kepoochikan, at the same time praying
to him in a rapid, monotonous tone to be propitious, explaining to him
the value of his presents, and strongly cautioning him against ingrati¬
tude. If all the prayers and presents made to their god by the Tahitians
to save their chiefs from dying proved in vain, his image was inexorably
banished from the temple and destroyed. The Ostiaks of Siberia, if
things went badly with them, would pull down from their place of
honour in the hut, and in every way maltreat the idols they generally
honoured so much; the idols whose mouths were always so diligently
smeared with fish fat, and within whose reach a constant supply of
snuff lay always ready. The Chinese are said to do the same by their
household gods, if for a long time they are deaf to their prayers ; and
so do the Cinghalese, so that the practice is more than an impulsive
manifestation of merely local feeling. That such feelings occasionally
crop out in civilised Catholic countries is matter of more surprise ; but
it is an autheutical historical fact that the good people of Castelbranco,
in Portugal, were once so angry with St. Anthony for letting the
Spaniards plunder their town, contrary to his agreement, that they
broke many of his statues in pieces, and, taking the head off one they
specially revered, substituted for it the head of St. Francis. Neapolitan
fishermen are said to this day to throw their saints overboard if they
do not help them in a storm ; and, if occasion calls for it, the images
of the Virgin or of St. Januarius, worn in Neapolitan caps, are in
danger of being trodden under foot and destroyed. And once during a
famine the latter saint received very clear intimation that unless corn
came by a certain time he would forfeit his saintship. It is, perhaps,
a refinement of thought when a present becomes an advisable accom¬
paniment to a simple petition ; but the principle of exchange once
entered into, the relations between man and the supernatural lead
logically from the offering of fruits and flowers to the sacrifice of
animals and of men. Some Algonkin Indians, mistaking once a mis¬
sionary for a god, and petitioning his mercy, begged him to let the
earth yield them corn, the rivers fish, and to prevent sickness from
slaying or hunger from tormenting them. Their request they backed
with the offer of a pipe. The whole of the savage’s philosophy of
sacrifice is contained in this ridiculous incident. Prescott coming with
some Indians to a lake they were to cross, saw his companions light
their pipes and smoke by way of invoking the winds to be calm. And
the Hurons offered a similar prayer with tobacco to a local god,
saying, “ Oki, thou who livest on this spot, we offer thee tobacco.
Help us, save us from shipwreck. Defend us from our enemies. Give
us good trade, and bring us safe back to our villages.” In the island
of Tanna, the village priest, addressing the spirits of departed chiefs
(thought to preside over the growth of yams and fruits), after the first-
fruits of vegetation had been deposited on a stone, on the branch of a
tree, or on a rude altar of sticks, would pray, “ Compassionate father,
here is some food; eat it, be kind to us on account of it.” In Fiji,
when the priests and leading men assembled to discuss public affairs in
the yaquona, or kava circle, the chief herald, as the water was poured
into the kava, after naming the gods for whom the libation was pre¬
pared, would say, “ Be gracious, ye lords, the gods, that the rain may
cease, and the sun shine forth ; ” and again, when the potion was
ready, “ Let the gods be of a gracious mind, and send a wind from the
east.”— Gen tleman,s Magazine.
Marriage.—At St. Andrew’s Church, Newcastle, by special license, on the
18th inst., by the Rev. W. Bernard East, assisted by the Rev. Rowland East,
James Barr Mellon, to Annie, second daughter of the late Mark Fairlamb, both
of Newcastle.
Just before going to press, a communication has reached us from the Rev.
John Tyerman, one of the chief pioneers of Spiritualism in Australia, who
has reached the United States on a lecturing tour, and whose present address
is 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco, California
| SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS DESCRIBED IN
| ICELANDIC SAGAS.
| j BY BARON C. DIRCKINCK-HOLMFELD.
I The tender germs of experimental Spiritualism have been
I developed since 1848 to world-wide importance in a variety
| of forms. It has now a realm of its own, the boundaries of
I which are still unexplored, science having in only a few
j instances tried to form settlements on the new territory.
| Spiritualists nevertheless know that the ruling power, the
| spiritual world, has from time immemorial exercised
I sovereign sway in the natural world, manifesting itself to
j the senses by facts which appear miraculous and super-
j natural, namely, by visions and apparitions. It has also mani-
| fested itself to the intelligence of man by communications,
| revelations, oracles, warnings, and prophecies as evidence of
j a superior order and power. Deeper reflection shows that
j as we mortals live in an external world of effects, the
! I spiritual world is a corresponding and internal world of
i ! causes; and that as the external world, of which we
| j naturally are conscious, is made perceptible to one of our
| | senses by a natural, sensuous light, the spiritual world can
! I only be made perceptible by a corresponding spiritual light,
p i as far as the internal organisation of the rational man is
| | receptive of the same, which cannot be until a correspond-
| I ing eye, or spiritual organ of sight is formed and developed.
I | The condition of this development is that the rational mind
| | opens itself to ideas of spiritual truth, and makes them
| | the leading principles in the natural sphere or plane of life.
| | This rational way of being made aware of the reality of the
j | spiritual world by internal illustration and consequent
| | elevation being so very rare now-a-days, auxiliary means are
II ] provided for levelling the road : the orderly means being
| | ineffective, extraordinary means are provided, working on
| | the same natural plane on which sensuous light prevails, to
! | assist the rational mind in its aspiration for spiritual eleva-
| | tion. Thus we see agencies at work whose effects on the
| | natural plane cannot be explained by natural causes, and
| | they act as impartial witnesses to the supernatural. Whether
| ! these witnesses speak in the form of inexplicable, sensible
I | facts, such as apparitions, visions, materialisations, or speak
j to the intellect as in communications, warnings, prophecies, or
I I revelations, made in states of clairvoyance or trance control,
| | they are mainly the consequences of a supreme dispensation
| y for the purpose of ultimately restoring the receptivity to
| j spiritual light. And such they have shown themselves even
j j in the remotest periods of history.
] History tells, and reflection explains, how predominant
J selfishness and lust of power gave the rational-spiritual
| tendency a false direction, turning faith into superstition,
i and using corrupted forms of truth and religion to further
| purposes of clerical dominion, thus making ecclesiasticism
| ! unreasonable and despicable, and establishing doubt, in-
i | fidelity, and scorn of all religion and Spiritualism. Natural
| ] theology tried in vain to sever itself from absurdity by
| | reducing corrupted dogmas to rational views. In making
| | spiritual faith natural, science became sceptical, and
| | materialism or naturalism was doctrinally spread among
j | all classes of mankind. The appeals to spiritual truth itself,
| | and the attempts to restore its evidence and its authority
| I being inefficient, the question arises how external facts and
| | manifestations came, as it were, to the rescue of beleaguered
| I humanity, but the interesting problem would here be out of
| | place. I only venture to observe that, in the midst of the
j j consummated extinction of spiritual faith in the last
| century, men of considerable intellect and learning like
j Johnson and Kant, did not hesitate to admit that spiritual
! | manifestations were so strongly attested through all periods
| | of history that their reality could not be denied. Many
| (| sceptical thinkers taught that spiritual doctrines, particularly
|) | those of faith in a Supreme Being and in the immortality of
i | man, were so universally rooted in the consciousness of
| i mankind in all its branches, that realities must be at the
| | bottom of them. When now, in spite of prevailing unbelief,
i \ i modem Spiritualism, with its overwhelming abundance of
|A| facts, gives indubitable testimony against naturalism, the
j H archives of the past have to be ransacked to enable us to
11| compare the phenomena of all countries and periods with
I (1 what now is going on. The interesting collection of reports
56
^ HE SPIRITUALIST.
Aua. 2, 1878.
made by the Morses, Dale Owens, Wm. Howitts, and The
Spiritual Magazine before its last stage of decrepitude,
ought to be completed; and as a rich mine, yet unexplored,
is found in the Norrain Sagas, as also in Snorra-Sturleson,
and Saxo, the Dane. I wish, by quoting from the Antiqui-
tates Americane (published in 1837 by 0. C. Rafor, the
learned secretary of the Society of Norrain Antiquities)
two reports of the mediumship of Gudrid and her com¬
panions, to give an opportunity for some one of the more
learned successors of Rafor, to furnish us with an exhaustive
account of what the Norrain records contain about such
manifestations.
In the Antiquitates Americane (p. 4,838) we are told—
Thorstein Eirikson (together with Gudrid, a widow he
recently had married) went with twenty-five companions
from Iceland to Yinland, the northern part of the United
States, in search of the body of his brother Thorvald, who
had lost his life there. His voyage and search were un¬
successful, and he was obliged to seek shelter in Greenland,
which was then colonised from Iceland and Norway. After
having found quarters for his crew, he and his wife were
invited by Thorstein Svarta to pass the winter with him, and
he accepted this offer of hospitality. Gardi, a heathen who
had declined to accept Christianity (which in the year 1000
had been introduced into Iceland by the free consent of the
whole population), fell ill, and his disease caused a foul
infection to spread among Thorstein’s crew. Grimhild, the
wife of Thorstein Svarta, the host, died, and lastly Thorstein
Eirikson himself. Grimhild, after her demise, was seen
lifting herself on her elbows and fumbling with her feet as if
to find her shoes. When she was lifted on to the bier all
the wooden pillars in the room shook, and were cracking
with a great noise. When Thorstein Eirikson afterwards
succumbed, his widow, in her grief, was sitting on a stool
close to the bed. Thorstein Svarta asked her to come and
sit with him on his bench, and he tried to console her in her
deep affliction, when, lo ! the corpse of Eirikson was seen
rising from the couch, asking thrice, g Where is Gudrid ?”
She asked her host whether she should go and speak to her
deceased husband. Advising her not to do so he stepped
himself over the floor, took his seat on the stool before the
couch and asked the corpse : “What do you wish, namesake ?”
After some time the deceased Thorstein replied : “ I wish to
tell Gudrid her fate to soothe her grief after my demise, be¬
cause now I have reached a good place for repose. I have to
tell thee, Gudrid, that thou hast to marry a man in Iceland ;
you will live a long life together and have numerous
children, energetic, bright, and eminent, sweet and of good
flavour. You will now (she and Thorstein Svarta) sail from
Greenland^© Norway, and thence to Iceland, where thou art
to settle and remain a long while, outliving thy husband.
Then thou wilt go abroad in the South, to Rome, and return
to thy homestead in Iceland, build a church there, and take
the veil until thy death.” Thorstein Eirikson then sank
backwards and was carried on his bier to his ship. There is,
of course, no other evidence of the truth of such a manifesta¬
tion and communication after death occurring more than
800 years ago, than the exactitude inherent in traditions
among the Icelanders. That Gudrid herself was a strong
medium, in the sense of modern Spiritualism, is probable,
and is confirmed by another version of what happened in
connection with her at the mansion of Thorstein Svarta, of
Lysefjord, related in the Thorfin Karlsefore’s Saga, in the
same Antiquitates Americane (p. 125). Thorstein Eirikson,
with his wife, who is called promiscuously Gudrid and
Thurid, soon after his marriage paid Thorstein, of Lysefjord,
a visit. Many people thereabout had died that winter from
an epidemic caused by the aforementioned disease. Gudrid
and her host’s wife (there called Sigrid) had walked to the
other end of the yard. On going back to the mansion
Gudrid heard Sigrid shrieking, and said, We have acted
imprudently. Let us make haste to avoid catching a cold.
Let us try to get back to the house as quickly as possible.”
Sigrid replied, g It is not so easy to get back to the house.
I see standing before the entrance a host of those who
recently have died. Thy husband Thorstein is there among
them, and I myself too. It is a dreadful sight.” When the
crowd had vanished she continued, “ Now we may go in,
Gudrid; I don’t see any more of the men.” Thorstein,
I whom she had seen standing among them with a whip to
dispel them, had disappeared, so they went in. Sigrid died
before the next morning. In the evening of that day, when
I Thorstein had returned from inspecting the fishing, he called
for his namesake, telling him that there were disturbances
in the house. The deceased housewife was trying to rise from
the couch and to shelter herself under his cloak. She had
f risen from her bed when he came in,’ so he had to
firmly grasp her hands, and he laid the house-axe upon her
chest. The next evening Thorstein Eirikson died, and
Thorstein, the host, persuaded Gudrid to go to rest. He
[ offered to sit up during the night watching the corpse. She
| followed his advice. In the middle of the night Thorstein
| Eirikson arose, saying that he wanted Gudrid to be called
| that he might speak to her, adding, “ God wills that this
I hour is allowed me for reparation.” ■ Thorstein Svarta, the
| host, went to awake Gudrid, telling her her husband’s words,
| and admonishing her to pray to God for assistance. “ He
wants thee, and thou must thyself decide what to do. I can-
| not advise' thee either the one way or the other.” She
answered, “ This may be to the purpose of something, which
afterwards may be worth recollection. It is a wonderful
thing. I trust in the guardianship of God. I feel confident
in His mercy, and I am resolved to meet Thorstein’s call,
and to learn what he wants to communicate. If harm is to
come out of it, I am unable to avoid it. I wish he would
not proceed any further, and I presume his course must be of
importance to him.” She then went to meet her deceased
husband, and it appeared to her that he was shedding tears.
Then he spoke to her in a subdued tone, so that she alone
could hear him, but afterwards he spoke so that all who were
present could hear. He said: “ All will enjoy a life of bliss
who are true in their faith, and thence derive assistance and
mercy. In this many are failing. It is a bad custom in
Greenland, since it has been so christened, to bury the dead
in unconsecrated ground, without the singing of hymns. I
wish, together with my companions who died here, to be
brought to a Christian church ; but Gardi (the heathen who
was thought to be the cause of the infectious malady)
ought to be burnt on a funeral pile as soon as possible, as it
was through him all the spectres have manifested themselves
this winter.” Then he predicted to Gudrid all that would
happen her, foretelling a remarkable career. He forewarned
her not to marry a man from Greenland, and exhorted her to
give a part of her property to the Church, and a part to the
poor. After this speech he fell back again. His corpse, like
those of his companions, was removed to Eiriksfjord Church,
and buried amid the singing of the priests. Eirik received
Gudrid as his foster-daughter, and managed all her affairs,
soon after which Thorbiorn died and left her all his property.
This version does not differ essentially from the former. It
appears though to have gone through clerical hands in order
to make it subservient to the interests of the Romish Church.
Such colouring of all reports was then habitual. A mere
superstitious fiction among such cool, close, and clever
observers as the old Icelanders are known to be is impro¬
bable, howsoever disfigured the details of the reports may be.
For us it is sufficient to know that faith in apparitions, clair¬
voyance, and clairaudience, prognostics and spiritual mani¬
festations was far from uncommon a thousand years ago in
Iceland.
Pinneberg, Holstein, July 27, 1878.
' | )| In forming an opinion whether a spirit hand has during experiments
| | been dematerialised inside any particular paraffin mould, the great
I jj point is to see—by means of a magnifying glass or otherwise—that the
! )| cuticle marks are complete and unbroken all round the narrowest part
I j | of the wrist, with no sign of a longitudinal cut having been made to
II i enable the hand to be withdrawn by natural means. In the case of a
11 j- foot, the narrowest part should be examined all round in the same way.
nj “Passed to the Higher Life.”—We regret to have to record the
i j;| death of Mary Pearson, wife of Mr. Cornelius Pearson, who is a well-
jj known Spiritualist and a member of the Council of the National
i )| Association. Mrs. Pearson, in common with her husband, bad been an
j ji earnest believer in Spiritualism for the last twenty years, and her
!■'' | sympathy for all connected with it, and her faith in it, remained
i steadfast to the end. She passed away in the sixty-sixth year of her
! age, on the 10th just., after a painful and protracted illness, to that
higher, fairer life which she had so looked forward to while here. Her
death will be felt and mourned by many friends outside the loving
1 circle of her own home.
Aug. 2, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
57
SPIRITUALISM IN MARYLEBONE.
On Tuesday evening, last week, Miss Kislingbury read a paper before
the Marylebone Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism at 25, Great
Quebec-street, London. Mr. Chas. White was in the chair. The
meeting was attended by several members of the Association; there
were also present Mr. Gr. R. Tapp, Mr. A. Yacher, the Rev. W. W.
Newbould, Mrs. Gordon, Dr. C. Carter Blake, and other well-known
Spiritualists.
Miss Kislingbury read the following paper on “ Spiritualism: its
Moral Benefits and Dangers : ”—
It has been frequently remarked with regard to modern Spiritualism
that, if it be true, it is of the utmost importance that men should
believe and know it; if false, it is of equal importance that its falsity
be exposed to the full.
With the latter proposition we shall all most unreservedly agree ;
the first requires some modification, I think, before we can give to it
our unqualified assent.
“ All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient,”
expresses, perhaps, in a few words, the conclusion at which we shall
arrive when we have examined the subject a little more closely in the
aspect which I venture to bring before you this evening. Speaking,
as I believe to be the case, to an audience composed chiefly of Spirit¬
ualists, it is my intention not to dwell much, as has been so often and
so well done before, on the benefits which Spiritualism brings—for
that may be regarded almost as a work of supererogation in the pre¬
sence of a body of believers and adherents—but to point out some of
the dangers which the too eager student is likely to meet with in his
pursuit of the marvellous, and to indicate some of the pitfalls which
even the more wary and experienced have not been always fortunate
in avoiding.
Some of these dangers are inherent in the nature of the subject,
and may be called actual; others proceed from the disposition or
temperament of the inquirer, and may be classed as accidental;
others, again, attend more particularly on the practice of mediumship,
and may be considered special: each kind of mediumship having its
own particular evil or danger.
In the exercise of my function of replying to inquirers, I have made
a great point of warning fresh hands against likely shoals and quick¬
sands, according to my judgment of their knowledge and character
(often, of course, formed cursorily from the imperfect observations
made on short acquaintance), because I have found it better to go
slowly and cautiously to work, than to rush unprepared into a subject
and into the presence of influences of whose potency the novice can
form no idea ; and I have not found that by so doing I have deterred
any from inquiry; on the contrary, my action has rather inspired
them with respect for the reasonableness of facts which will bear to
be deliberately faced and calmly investigated.
Not to deal too much in generalities, I will now define some of these
dangers, or difficulties, as you may prefer to regard them, and ask you
whether or not you agree with me as to their existence and importance.
In the first joy of discovery of a new world, everything is apt to
appear in glowing colours. The country is an “El Dorado,” and all
that glitters is taken for gold. The emotions are excited, imagination
is aroused, exaggerated descriptions are given, and belief is strained to
the utmost. This state of things is peculiarly dangerous in Spiritualism,
both on account of the delusive nature of some of the appearances, and
of the class of interests involved. For what is it that many of us come
seeking in these phenomena, so unattractive in themselves, so strange
and weird in their presentment, so elusive and will-o’-the-wisp-like in
their proceeding ? Do we not approach them with a dim, far-off hope
that they will furnish us with some proof of a hereafter, and restore our
shattered belief in man’s immortality ? And as soon as we get a clue
to that proof, how anxiously we follow it up, through endless mazes,
baffled at every turn; but so long as we hold the clue, i.e., so long as the
manifestation of intelligent force continues, how unwilling are we to
relinquish the hope that the proof will be given, indubitable, undeniable!
And this very eagerness of hope it is which is a snare. When the very
name we desire, though we were not thinking of it at the moment, is
rapped out at a first sitting, with a medium who has never seen us
before, and knows nothing of our life, history, or surroundings; when
the pencil, guided by some influence which affects us with a sensation
unknown before, traces the very words which the signature reminds us
were spoken by that beloved one’s voice when we met for the last time;
when the actual features are presented, and indicate by signs or well-
remembered gestures that they are indeed those of a long-lost relative or
friend, then we can doubt no longer. We have the proof at last; the
dead live still; they return to the old earthly scenes; Spiritualism is
true; the Churches are all wrong ; all our early lessons must be
unlearned, and life begun anew! Then follows a crusade against
existing creeds and worship: Christianity is assailed, a new code of
morals is enacted, and propagandism of the new faith absorbs for a time
all the energy, time, and means of the believer.
This first danger may be considered both actual and accidental:
actual, as being inherent in the nature of the phenomena, which are in
many cases deceptive and difficult of observation; accidental, as pro¬
ceeding from the disposition and temperament of the inquirer, and
varying in degree according to his mental status and physical constitu¬
tion. And if this be true of what are known as the physical phenomena
of Spiritualism, I think it is often more true and more dangerous in
regard to the mental stages, viz., trance-speaking and written com¬
munications. This is because, appealing to the mind often on subjects
about which we have no information and no settled convictions, or on
those which affect our personal happiness or weaknesses, they enlist
first the imagination, and finally lead captive the judgment. I have
seen persons who would take no advice from earthly friends, however
i skilled or well qualified to judge in a particular case, take counsel with
spirits, and follow their behests, however foolish. In some lamentable
cases this has been carried to the point of unhinging the judgment, and
of plunging the believer into deep seas of trouble; yet, after this, the
practice has been continued with the same ardour, and the advice fol¬
lowed with the same implicit obedience. Yet these same persons fight
against every sort of authority which has been previously instituted in
the cause of order, morality, and religion.
And now, after all, what are the foundations on which this inflated,
balloon-like superstructure of belief is reared ? Answer: The dicta of
spirits. What spirits? Those who communicate through writing or
trance mediums. But do these all agree ? By no means; they all
have their opinions, just as we have here. Then what is your test
for truth ? “ My own opinion; I do not believe blindly what spirits
tell me, any more than mortals.” So it comes to this—that each
person communicating with spirits in another life, receives not what
that spirit from his superior standpoint might be supposed to know
better than himself, but just as much as will square with his pre¬
conceived notions derived from some other source, and resting on
some other authority. The special dangers of mediumship are many. The
chief among them I hold to be the facilities given to spirits of a low order
to take possession of the medium, while at the same time we are as yet
without much knowledge of the means for relieving the medium of unde¬
sirable controls. The practice of mediumship means opening the door to evil
as well as good spirits to come in and dwell with us. We have all
learned by experience that it is dangerous for an undeveloped medium
to sit at mixed circles until his own “ controls ” are well established;
nevertheless, some of the worst cases of obsession and of visitings from
tricksy or lying spirits occur to persons sitting alone. It would be
well, I think, if this part of the subject were to be more studied. In
olden times we read that incantations and certain exorcist formulae were
used for keeping away evil spirits. As a general rule we know that like
attracts like, and that the spirits frequenting certain circles will be more
! or less on a level with those of whom the circles are composed. Never¬
theless, I have known pure, well-intentioned mediums, and whole
I families annoyed and seriously troubled by most unwelcome visitants.
| Even the all-powerful aids of earnest prayer and a holy life seemed to
| be not entirely efficacious in keeping off the intruders. In the life of
the Cure d’Ars, a French priest of eminent saintliness, it is related
| that the good man’s sleep, of which he allowed himself extremely
j little, was disturbed by his bed being drawn about and objects thrown
all over the room in the night; once the room was set on fire, ap-
j parently from unearthly causes.
] The following anecdote is related of Pascal:—In the year 1654 he
had an escape from a frightful death. He was in a coach-and-four with
! some friends, and in crossing the Seine over a bridge, part of the
| parapet of which was thrown down, the leaders took fright and leaped
into the water; their weight as they fell happily broke the traces and
left the carriage free. But Pascal’s nervous system received a shock
j which it seems never to have recovered, and he was haunted by the
| thought that on the left side of him—that on which the danger
! threatened on this occasion—there yawned a deep chasm ; nor could he,
it is said, sit at ease unless fortified on that side by the sensation of
| some solid obstacle, though, strange to say, an empty chair would
| answer the purpose.
| But this empty chair contained, as all who read VAmulette de Pascal
would admit, a true and living spiritual presence. This we might
| call Pascal’s demon, or attendant spirit, who seems to have employed
this artifice in order to convince Pascal that some force, at any rate,
existed outside his own mind. If Pascal had not seen this empty chair ;
| if he had not filled it with a supernatural entity, which may have in
| part proceeded from his own mind, his astute mathematical intellect
| might have led him to the conviction that his own body was the solitary
being whose existence he could have proved to his own senses and
reason. And this constant presence also led him constantly to remember
that the time had once occurred in his life when he was face to face
i with the insoluble, and that its recurrence was the one certain and real
j thing in our life-history. Nevertheless, we may question whether such
| a haunting presence was not altogether abnormal, and one which
| Pascal would have gladly dispensed with had he known how to set to
j work.
It seems to me that, with all our study and modern experience, we
have not yet arrived at a knowledge of the means of controlling the
lowest of the forces we are dealing with. Theosophy claims that this
| control can be effected by will-power; if this should be found effectual,
then theosophy will have proved itself indeed an invaluable aid to
Spiritualism. And it will at the same time teach another lesson, which is
that only persons of certain temperaments and constitution are fitted to
| investigate these matters, and that they should be by no means univer-
| sally or indiscriminately entered into. And if it is necessary to heed
! this warning here in England, where caution is, on the whole, a national
| characteristic, we feel it to be doubly so when we look to the conse¬
quences of its neglect in America. Though we are indebted to that country
for some of the best mediums, yet we have only to glance at the pages of
I its spiritualistic journals to see the frequency of fraud, and of terrible
j consequences resulting from following the suggestions made by spirits.
This is partly owing, I believe, to the greater trustfulness of the
American character, and partly, as I have often said before, to the want
| of organisation of the Spiritualist movement in that country.
I That Spiritualism may, however, be practised to advantage, if pur¬
sued with caution, and in a religious spirit, I conscientiously believe,
| and in support of my statement I have great pleasure in quoting from
a paper published in the July number of the Psychological Review.*
“ We may even live to see the time when arguing upwards, according
to the strict scientific method, from acknowledged facts and self-evident
truths, the philosopher may arrive at conclusions identical with those
* See The Abate of San Gandolfo, pp. 136—138.
5S
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Am. 2, 1878.
which have during long ages been accepted as the heirloom of tradition,
and the boon brought by messengers of heavenly descent. We shall
thus, from distant and opposite quarters, meet in the same centre of
confluent truths, and be established in positions impregnably fortified.
Nor is it easy to calculate the increase of happiness, holiness, and
mental power which such a measure of assurance may bring to man¬
kind. Of course there will always be minds which the full blaze of
evidence will only blind; but this, we may hope and expect, will not be
the general effect of such increase of light. The wide diffusion of
democratic tendencies and institutions is causing men to drift more
widely into individualism in philosophy and religion, but a firmer appre¬
hension of truths regarding the spiritual world, obtained by scientific
means and sensible demonstrations, may bring about, by courses we
least anticipate, more unity of principle, thought, and feeling among the
prayerful thinkers and scholars of every communion and clime. It is by
sounding the depths of old truths that we shall attain to new, for new
truths are, for the most part, only new developments of truths that were
known of old.”
To bring about this desirable result, however, it will be necessary to
proceed on methods which are as yet only just beginning to find favour
amongst us. Instead of each one experimenting for himself, often at
peril to health and mental and moral balance, I should prefer to see the
subject made one of special study and research, like chemistry,
astronomy, and other sciences. The study would, of course, always be
free and open to all who choose to undertake it, as is the case with the
other sciences I have named; but by the means proposed it would be
lifted out of the stage of empiricism (a necessary one, and natural to all
new growths) which it has now, I hope, nearly outgrown, and be raised
to a more dignified position than it at present occupies. If not destined
itself to become a science, Spiritualism will, I think, be an aid to the
right understanding of all science as of all religion. But that its so-
called teachings or communications should be taken as a rule of indi¬
vidual conduct or belief, cannot, in my opinion, from long and intimate
experience, be too strongly deprecated or discouraged.
I might have added to this paper by copious examples of injurious
effects and undesirable results from the causes which I have here only
briefly indicated. But no doubt such cases are sufficiently well known
to you all, and their repetition would be painful as well as unnecessary.
What I principally wished to point out is the general principles to which
they are traceable. Whether you agree with me or not, will be shown
by the discussion which is about to follow. If I have too much con¬
densed my remarks, I shall be willing to amplify them on any point
which you may do me the honour to indicate.
In the discussion which followed the reading of the paper, Mr. Tapp
said he thought that Miss Kislingbury had done a great service in
boldly bringing forward the unpleasant side of Spiritualism, which
some were too apt to keep out of sight. He quite agreed as to the
dangers indicated. He would, however, advert to one great benefit
which Spiritualism brought with it, which was that it taught men and
women to be themselves. They learned from the facts revealed that
there is no escaping from our true character and our true position.
With regard to obsession, he had observed that it was a common
feature in the experiences of saints and other holy persons. He thought
it was easily accounted for—first on account of the opposition which
good men are sure to meet with from evil spirits; and second,
because asceticism lays people open to attack from a variety of in¬
fluences. The physical power being at a low ebb, they are less able to
resist the action of spirits. Mr. Tapp also deprecated undue enthusiasm.
Enthusiasm meant egotism, and egotistical people would be sure to
suffer for their pride.
Mr. Wilson, Mr. Bull, Dr. C. Blake, Mr. C. White, and others took
part in the discussion.
In reply to Mr. Tapp’s remarks on obsession,
Miss Kislingbury said that asceticism meant subduing the flesh to the
spirit, and that, therefore, those who practised it should be in a better
position to resist the attacks of spirits if they were instructed that they
could effect their purpose by a strong exercise of will-power. This was
one of the lessons the Theosophists wished to inculcate, and to encourage
activity of will rather than the passivity prevalent when developing
mediumship, which placed persons under the power of influences they
knew nothing about, often to their great detriment.
The meeting closed with the usual votes of thanks.
Fatal Accident to Me. Oxley, Jun.—The following sad news is
from 2'he Manchester Courier of July 26th:—“ The coroner of the
hundred of Fordingbridge, Hants, at Ibsley, near Bingwood, held an
nquest on the body of a young man found drowned in the Avon at Ibsley.
Mr. W. Pollock, the land steward of Lord Normanton, was passing, and
seeing some people on the river hank, obtained a boat, and by means of a
boathook lifted the body, and found one of the legs wrapped with weed,
which evidently had been the cause of the fatality. Deceased was a
good swimmer, and had been seen to cross the river twice. The water
was eight and a half feet deep at the spot. Mr. Pollock found some papers
in the pockets of the young gentleman’s clothes, and communicated with
his friends, who identified the body as that of Mr. William Herbert
Oxley, son of Mr. William Oxley, of Higher Broughton, Manchester.
He was going on his bicycle from Pool to Fordingbridge, and went into
the river for a bathe, which ended so fatally for him.’,
THE TOUCH OF THE UNSEEN.
As feel the flowers the sun in heaven,
But sky and sunlight never see;
So feel I Thee, oh God, my God,
Thy dateless noontide hid from mo.
As touch the buds the blessed rain,
But rain and rainbow never see ;
So touch I God in bliss or pain,
Thy far, vast rainbow veiled from me.
Orion, moon, and sun, and bow
Amaze a sky unseen by me :
God’s wheeling heaven is there I know,
Although its arch I cannot see.
In low estate, I, as the flower,
Have nerves to feel, not eyes to see;
The subtlest in the conscience is
Thyself and that which toucheth Thee.
Forever it may be that I
More yet shall feel but shall not see,
Above my soul, Thy wholeness roll,
Not visibly, but tangibly.
But flaming heart to rain and ray,
Turn I in meekest loyalty ;
I breathe, and move, and live in Thee,
And drink the ray I cannot see.
Scribner's Monthly.
SPRING’S REPLY.
Oh would fair Spring that we could chain thy feet,
So transient yet so exquisitely sweet;
God’s earth so changed, as though some new command
Had raised the curse from off His weary land.
The field of blue-bells in yon distance seems
A lake where quivering sunlight gleams ;
Soft dewy ferns their bending fronds unfold,
Rich cowslips wave their many bells of gold.
The sleek cows standing by the river’s brink
Reflect themselves, then take their harmless drink ;
Gay singing birds ’tween earth and heaven soar,
Rejoicing the fair Spring returns once more.
So full of life, sad heart what aileth thee ?
My spirit cries, “ Restore the dead to me.
Bring me them back, oh Spring! With restless pain
I long to hear those voices, yet in vain :
To hear them even for one moment’s space ;
To clasp that hand, once more behold that face.
Oh love! Thy glory and thy curse are one,
All things save thee have change beneath the sun.”
Then Spring replied: 11 This earth hath no control
On the unfathomed laws which rule man’s soul;
Thy dead still live ; unknown their dwelling place ;
Perchance in some bright world which rolls through space.”
“ One came as strong as fate ; his frozen breath
Breathed on thy loved, then sealed those eyes in death;
He robs man’s heart, turns joy to blinding tears ;
The soul released, death bears to other spheres.”
Alice Worthington.
(Eorresponnence.
Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be Jcept by the writers. Preference is given to letters ichich are not anonymous.']
THE SEANCE AT MR. ST. CLAIR’S HOUSE IN BIRMINGHAM.
Sir,—I feel myself justified in asking you to insert a reply to Mr. St.
Clair’s accusation against me in last week’s Spiritualist.
1st. He charges me with not giving a full and accurate account of the
seance held at his house with Mr. John Summerfield, medium.
Now, sir, I wish to tell him I would expose Mr. Summerfield or any
other medium, even if he were my own brother, if I saw any imposition
going on. In reference to the table, I still maintain that a table 4x6
by 3 x 6 is a large one; and I think that it was the largest in the house.
Again, I beg to say that Mrs. St. Clair sat opposite to me, not opposite
the medium, who sat two seats above; also, that flowers were asked for
by some of the sitters, and the guides said that they would try to bring
some. When I stated that the flowers were dropping, I stated what I
saw, and it would be well had Mr. St. Clair stated what he saw only,
and not given the testimony of another. As regards Mr. St. Clair
getting down from turning up the light, I saw him hastily resume his
seat, and that his face had a very confused expression when he looked
towards me. He states that nothing was prearranged between Mr. Tait
and himself; butl noticed when darkness was called for, that he and Mr.
Tait had a conversation in whispers at the end of the room, and that
when he was asked to turn the gas out he left a small jet on. I also
asked for matches, and offered to hold them, but Mr. St. Clair stated
that he had got them all right. In reference to Mr. Lawson Tail’s accu¬
sations against Mr. Summerfield as regards the flowers and bell, I leave
him to defend himself; but still, I and other friends, who could see the
medium as well as Mr. Lawson Tait, do not believe it.
Mr. St. Clair says, further, that the medium would have staid supper
if I had consented. I can only say that when Mr. Summerfield refused
to stay, he came to me, saying, “ If the medium leaves, you are not
THE SPIRITUALIST
59
Aug. 2, 1878.
obliged to go; ” and to the last I wished Mr. Summerfield to take
something, as I feared he would be ill, but he refused, and we came away
together, with the expressed wish of Mrs. St. Clair that we should give
another sitting, but we replied that we must consult the controls first.
Mr. St. Clair must not think me uncourteous in refusing to overlook the
ungentlemanly treatment of Mr. Lawson Tait and himself by not
accepting a supper.
I may state that both myself and Mr. Summerfield are still willing to
assist both Mr. and Mrs. St. Clair in their investigation of Spiritualism
to the best of our ability, if Mr. St. Clair will be true, and honest to his
own conscience, instead of being influenced by outsiders.
John Colley.
312, Bridge-street West, Birmingham.
Sir,—In last week’s Spiritualist I notice a letter from Mr. St. Clair, j \
also a few words from Mr. Lawson Tait. Now, in answer to Mr. Tait, <
I beg to say I did not place any bell on the mantelpiece; I simply l<
removed it as far as I could away from my reach, remarking at the ,
same time that I would not have it near me. I also suggested that <
we should have the largest table in the house as a guard against any 1
trickery. (
Mr. St. Clair states that he was prompted by curiosity to turn up <
the light; yet to me and others he said he wished he had not turned |
up the light, and he apologised by saying it was a mistake. That a ,
light had been called for by some one—by Mr. Lawson Tait—all the 1
sitters know. If my guides should say that he did it on his own |
account, I must for ever put them down as lying spirits. As regards
hands, he was told that it was not necessary to hold hands, but to
simply touch. But Mr. St. Clair knows the conditions. He sat the '
week before with other mediums, and has had sittings with mediums
in London and elsewhere ; he has also read upon the subject. Now,
as regards the supper, I must say that supper was mentioned in the j
invitation to Mr. Colley and myself, and it was understood that my
visit was a non-professional one ; but I must deny either showing or
having the least inclination to stay to supper, although much pressed j
both by Mr. St. Clair and his wife. (Mr. St. Clair remarked in his j
sermon that mediums who go into trance are, as a rule, hungry, or have !
a disordered stomach.)
Mr. Glydon, who I thought was a Spiritualist, stated that he should
let no spirits interfere with him in the matter of partaking of his
friend’s supper. Now, one word more to Mr. St. Clair. He says the
flowers were deposited “ irregularly ” over the table, and, as he
mentions Mrs. St. Clair, I beg him to remember a remark made by
her—viz., that no human being could possibly have placed the flowers
in the dark in the position in which they were found.
Now, let me meet the accusation of Mr. Lawson Tait. Mr. George
St. Clair charges me, on that gentleman’s testimony—first, with loosing
ray hand from my wife’s, who sat on my right; secondly, with trying
to find or to reach the bell with my right hand, when the bell was far
away on my left; thirdly, with throwing the flowers, which implies
that I must have had them in my pocket.
Now, Mr. Lawson Tait sees all this, and if is well known that he
came to find out the trickery. I thi’ow the flowers. Mr. Tait allows
it to go on. I try to reach the bell instead of sitting in my seat (as
I must have got up to get anywhere near it). Instead of holding my
hands and calling for a light, he simply draws himself in a little and ]
allows the trickery to go on—allows his friend, Mr. St. Clair, to be
imposed upon.
Now, sir, I think your readers from the following will be able to
draw their own conclusions. When I came to my normal state, I j
asked what was the matter. Several of the sitters told of Mr. St. j
Clair turning up the light, also that my guides had instructed them
to take me home, and not to stay any longer. I said then, MI go.” I
said farther that I had come there with honest intentions, and expected j
to find myself among gentlemen and honest investigators, but that as ]
my guides had told me to leave, I should not stay any longer. Mr.
St. Clair said it was a mistake. 1 told him it was something more
than a mistake, or I should not have been told by my guides to go.
1 told him that I came at his invitation as a friend, and had not been
treated as I expected. As already stated, he apologised, said it was a
mistake, and tried to make me believe that my guides only told them
to give up sitting, but that I could stay to supper. He said that he
was sorry that one guest should be the means of driving us all away.
By the way, who was that u one guest 1 ” No one spoke except Mr. j
Tait, who said that all spirits told lies.
Mr. St. Clair hoped I would come again and give him another i
sitting. I told him that I should consult my spirit friends. He seemed
surprised that I should be guided by them, but he till the last—joined |
by Mrs. St. Clair—pressed us to stop, but I declined. I then wished |
all individually good-night, and came away with my friends.
Now, sir, I am sure you will think with me that Mr. Lawson Tait j
played a cowardly and ungentlemanly part—first, by allowing his host !
and hostess and friends to be imposed upon, and to receive from me
(the impostor) not very complimentary language, and to listen to Mr.
St. Clair pressing us to stop, and trying to get us to promise to come j
again, wishing us good-night, and allowing us to depart.
Aot till we are gone, and he is over his wine, does he bring this !
accusation against me. Not till then does he charge us as impostors; j
not till then, when we are away, and cannot defend ourselves, does he I
give Mr. St. Clair his weighty testimony. Such conduct from an !
assembly round a washtub we may look for, but from such an impor¬
tant person as Mr. Lawson Tait we should not have expected it.
I know, sir, I have written strongly, but my reputation as a
medium is at stake, and I trust this will be inserted.
John Summerfield. j
109, Grove-place, Olifford-street, Birmingham, i
WHERE IS DR. MONCK ?
Sir,—Having heard that Dr. Monck is now residing in Switzerland, but
not knowing his address, may I take advantage of your courtesy by
begging of you to publish in your paper, for his information, that should
he think of extending his trip to Naples, I should be most happy to
receive him as my guest ? G. Damian i.
2, Yico del Yasto a Ohiaia, Naples, 23rd July, 1878.
SPIRIT INDIVIDUALITY.
On Saturday afternoon a seance was held at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, London. Mr. Williams and Mr. Rita were
the mediums. The primary object of the stanceWiS to
obtain a test of the identity of “John King” with a spirit
professing the same name who manifests at Cambridge.
I, therefore, hoping to be recognised during the stance^
went under an assumed name, and my visit was kept a
secret from all but my companions, who were equally
interested with myself in the result of the experiment.
Our fullest hopes were realised. I was completely recog¬
nised, and several facts were mentioned which could not
have been known to either of the mediums. I should
mention that I have seen Mr. Williams before, but only
for a few minutes, and I believe that he could not have
known my name, even if he had recognised my face, while
several of the tests given were absolutely out of the range
of his knowledge. One fact in particular, mentioned to us
at the stance, was known to only four living persons besides
myself, none of whom were present, or had the slightest
idea that I was at that moment in London, but which had
been mentioned fifteen hours previously at Cambridge, in
the presence of an intelligence purporting to he u John King."
This test I had from the lips of the materialised spirit, and
it ought to prove conclusively that neither the medium’s
body nor his spirit had anything to do with the matter.
The seance was also a satisfactory one, in a phenomenal
point of view. The usual manifestations began almost
immediately after the light had been put out; that is to say,
bells were rung, instruments floated about, and spirit hands
felt in great abundance. The voices of “ John King” and
“ Peter ” kept up a continuous conversation with us. Mr.
Williams then entered the cabinet, and the materialised
form of John King shortly appeared, passing freely to all
parts of the room, and conversing with us. At our request
the head floated over the table, the distance between the head
and table being certainly insufficient for the admission of a
human body. We were also allowed to take hold of the
spirit drapery, and felt it in our fingers. The spirit then
handed me a slate, on which the following words were after¬
wards found to be written :—
?.? We are glad to meet you, and see that you are interested in this
grand cause.
“ God bless you all. “ J. K.v
This slate was said to have been carried away during a
previous stance, and had not been seen since.
After “John” had gone, the spirit of “ Peter ” appeared.
He seemed very anxious that we should examine his light,
holding it immediately under our eyes, and this gave me
plenty of opportunity to examine his face, which was about
three inches distant from my own. I was thus enabled to
satisfy myself of the great difference between the faces of
the medium and spirit, and to make quite certain that the
lips of the latter moved when he spoke. Finally, a short
conversation took place in the cabinet between Mr. Williams,
“John,” and “ Peter,” the voices of the two last being heard
at the same time; thus concluding a most satisfactory
stance. K 0. Fountain,
Pembroke College, Cambridge.
The other persons present who are willing to testify to the
truth of all that is here stated are—
0. Davieson,
14, Store-street, Bedford-square, London.
H. S. Smith,
7, Grove End-road, St. John’s Wood, London.
Presentation to Mr. John Ainsworth.—A gathering of an agree¬
able nature took place on the evening of July 22nd at the Camden
Hotel, Liverpool, for the purpose of presenting to Mr. John Ainsworth
a handsome inkstand, also an album to Mrs. Ainsworth, on the occasion
of their removal to Bristol. As a Spiritualist Mr. Ainsworth has
endeared himself to his co-workers by his fearless and able advocacy of
the cause, and Liverpool Spiritualists will feel the effects of his depar¬
ture. Messrs. Morse, Moore, Lamont, and others addressed the meeting.
60
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 2, 1878.
THE MARRIAGE OF MR. F. BARRETT AND MISS
FITZ-GERALD.
On Wednesday last week, as briefly announced in the preceding
number of The Spiritualist, a marriage took place between Mr. F.
Barrett, of Langley House, Denmark-hill, and Emily Geraldine, only
daughter of Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E. The wedding party
left Mr. Fitz-Gerald’s house at 10 a.m. for Brixton Independent Church,
which was thronged with relatives, friends, and neighbours, anxious to
witness the ceremony. The youthful bride was dressed in plain white
silk, trimmed with orange-blossom, myrtle, and jasmine, and wore a
wreath of these flowers, with a veil of tulle. She also carried a magni¬
ficent bouquet of exotic and home flowers. The bridesmaids, sisters of
the bridegroom, wore dresses of pale pink brocaded silk, trimmed with
white lace, quilted satin petticoats, and white lace hats with feathers.
The officiating minister was the Rev. Samuel Eldridge, whose reading
of the unusually brief service was impressive. On leaving the church,
where the path of the bride was strewn with flowers, showers of which
also were thrown into her carriage, the party drove to Langley House,
the residence of the bridegroom’s father, and spent some time in the
grounds and in listening to music, They then proceeded to 29, East¬
bourne-terrace, Hyde-park, the temporary residence of Mr. Fitz¬
Gerald’s mother, where over thirty guests sat down to breakfast.
After some justice had been done to the good fare provided,
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald said : Dear Kindred and Friends,—I rise to
propose the health of the bride and bridegroom. (Cheers.) When first
I heard of the engagement of my daughter Emily to Mr. Barrett, my
reception of the news was, I confess, rather cynical. I had heard of
young people making engagements and breaking them off; young people
who are attached to each other sometimes have quarrels, and very
serious quarrels too; so, not knowing what might be in the future, I did
not consider this union a fait accompli. But from the first there
has been no misunderstanding of any kind—not even a lover’s quarrel—
(applause)—and you other young people here have a good example set
before you. (Hear, hear.) A little sermon on such occasions as these
is good, because the circumstances cause it to be better remembered.
We have here the example of two young persons coming together under
the motive of love alone, and thus we have good reason to hope that
they may always love each other under all circumstances, through good
and evil report. Let me give them these few words of advice as to the
future. If you should at any time feel inclined to “ fall out,” read
Will Carleton’s little poem about “Betsy and 1.” Women are so
constituted—I speak it respectfully—that they are not always in the
same equable temper. (Hear, hear, and laughter.) The men are much
the same; and in married life there must always be some “ give and
take.” Let me advise you not to run after happiness, but to let
happiness run after you; occupy yourselves with useful work—that
work which is ready to your hand ; and always have an earnest purpose
in life-—one of benefit to the world. Do not look upon the accumulation
of the means of subsistence as the chief purpose of life; look upon it as
a means rather than as an end. In this world there is always going on
a struggle of good against evil, of light against darkness. I hope to see
you ever on the side of good, on the side of humanity. 1 thank God
for having sent my daughter such a protector—a good son, a good
brother, a manly and open intelligence. Such a man must prove a
good husband; and with joyous confidence I send my darling child,
hand in hand with Fred. Barrett, down her smiling stream of life.
(Loud applause.)
Mr. Pulvermacher next spoke to the same effect.
Mr. Frederic Barrett, in response, thanked those present for their
kind wishes, and especially did he thank his father-in-law. He hoped
that his future with Mr. Fitz-Gerald’s daughter would exemplify all
that had been said. It had been stated that he and his bride were
setting an example to the young persons present; he thought that the
married persons present, with their happy faces, had set them ti e
example. (Hear, hear). He wished to return thanks for the honour
that had been done them. (Applause.)
Several other speeches were made. One by Mr. Bernard C. Molloy,
of the Inner Temple, who, while in an able and humorous way pro¬
posing the health of the bridesmaids, observed that he did not know
why he had been selected to do so, for an Irishman was always timid,
and yet expected to have much self-confidence ; he hoped next time to
propose their healths not as bridesmaids but as brides.
Among the other speakers were Mr. Herbert Allport (bridegroom’s
best man), who made an amusing speech ; Mr. Barrett, senior, Mr. T.
Barrett, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Reginald Barrett, Mr. F. Cowley, and
Mr. W. H. Harrison.
At five p.m. the newly-married couple drove off amidst showers of
rice and several projectile slippers, for their residence at Leacroft,
| ? I Staines, where they proposed to remain for a few days prior to starting
i > | for their wedding tour in Wales and the Lake district.
j (| PRESENTATION BY THE BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
|) i Amongst the numerous presents received by Miss Fitz-Gerald
I I on the occasion of her marriage, was one from the Brixton
I (| Psychological Society, of which the present Mrs. F. Barrett was
I (| the honorary assistant secretary from the period of its forma-
|)! tion. This present consisted of two handsome dining-room and
I \ j drawing-room clocks, with ornamental vases, and was accompanied by a
i 11 beautifully illuminated address, the work of Mr. H. C. Frances, of
| > | which the following is a copy :—
The members of the Brixton Psychological Society desire to offer to Emily
I / j Geraldine Fitz-Gerald their warmest congratulations upon her marriage,
111 accompanied by a wedding gift, in token of their sincere regard, and with
I (j their heartiest wishes for her welfare and happiness,
j'j.j . July, 1878.
j | It may be mentioned that both Mr. and Mrs. F. Barrett remain
i | members of this society; so also do Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-
||j Gerald, who have always been among the most energetic and faithful
I | supporters of the cause of Spiritualism in London.
II j Cricketing Misunderstood. — Muscular High Church Curate:
j:lj “ Wonderful things ‘ Grace ’ does !’’ Low Church Vicar (surprised at
hj the serious observation from his volatile friend): “Ah, my dear
|)| sir, true ’’ High Church Curate: “Yes. Only fancy, y’know !—
j (I Niney-two, and not out!! P—Punch.
| /1 Ancient Babylon.—Dr. Samuel Kinn, in lately lecturing at the
| j | British Museum on Assyrian antiquities, said that Nineveh and
| j j Babylon were nearly twice the size of London and its suburbs, and has
j ! subsequently explained:—“ By London and its suburbs I meant what
j y i is included in Kelly’s map, representing about 120 square miles,
j > | whereas Babylon, according to Herodotus, occupied 225 square miles,
| j and was sixty miles in circumference. This would enclose all the space
;north and south from Highgate to the Crystal Palace, and east and
I ):| west from Kew to Woolwich; and when we conceive a wall as high as
|)| the Monument, and 75 feet in thickness, surrounding all this space,
I (j we cannot be but amazed at the magnitude of the erection.”
| / j Dangerous Somnambulists.—Referring to the recent murder by a
|(| a somnambulist in Edinburgh, the Solicitors' Journal says:—•
| j “ Dornbliith, the German psychologist, tells of a young woman
/1 who, in consequence of a fright occasioned by an attack of robbers, was
(| seized with epilepsy, and became subject to somnambulism. While in
) | that condition she was in the habit of stealing articles, and was charged
/1 with theft, but, on the advice of Dornbliith, was released, and eventually
(I cured. Seltzer (cited in Wharton and Stille) gives an account of a
> | somnambulist who clambered out of a garret window, ascended into the
|j next house, and killed a young girl who was asleep there. And the
(| same learned writers quote from Sarvarin an account of a somnambu-
\ j list monk (related to Sarvarin by the prior of the convent where the
II incident happened) : ‘ The somnambulist entered the chamber of the
| prior ; his eyes were opened, but fixed; the light of two lamps made no
impression upon him; his features were contracted, and he carried in
his hand a large knife. Going straight to the bed, he had first the ap-
j pearance of examining if the prior was there. He then struck three
| blows, which pierced the coverings, and even a mat which served the
purpose of a mattress. In returning his countenance was unbent, and
was marked by an air of satisfaction. The next day the prior asked
) | the somnambulist what he had dreamt of the preceding night, and the
(j latter answered that he had dreamt that his mother had been killed by
(] the prior, and that her ghost had appeared to him demanding vengeance;
) | that at this sight he was so transported by rage that he had immediately
(| run to stab the assassin of his mother.’ Sarvarin adds that if the prior
j | had been killed, the monk could not possibly, under these circumstances,
) | have been punished.”
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A. ;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Sciepce, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury London.
Aug. 2, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting .and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. fid.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. fid.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
' scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F. R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer''
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. ,,
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IY. *
The Thinker. .. Y. „ . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . . •
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician : or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Yictims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
7 6
7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. fi 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History ot American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .16
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen , 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.n.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts- . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. ..... .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind!; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S'anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams. Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Ansesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description oj- Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or ot Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate seientifle man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-coneeived ideas, aud the
result of his examination has been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to he
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of « priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritnalistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument aud
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention ihan the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Itaily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Charter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III ^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IY.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter Y.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Hei bert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr C. F. Variey, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
■ Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seerskip—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVl Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New — Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t&
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Grookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnage;paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London: W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, reel edges
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHO GRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS of contents.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidenee of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. fi. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L.O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E- idence of Hon. It. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayeiiis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Bage Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—^Evidence
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theovv.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
modiumship, also of articles aud poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful hook to place In public libraries, and to p resent or I end
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given throug '
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)’), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Scngireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tranee-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home., Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckoraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A.,Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By theBaroness Adelina Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lueia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burse—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Uev.,C. Maurice
Davies, D.D .—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H, Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallec)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—.
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should he multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
■,Augl 18^8.
NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
 MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEAN'S-
LORD BEACONSFIELD justly statw the other
day that “ the health of the people Is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
EISO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO'S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
END’S FRUIT ' SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENQ’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “ nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. I,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS' TO
KNOW.
t?NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes":—
“Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
F7»NO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
U « Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
■WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OOGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
TTINO’S FRUIT SALT,
JCj as a
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In, the Nursery it is beyond
praise^   
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Foisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
VINO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
t-J products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus ot itself One of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
erless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
out very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Outof gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “W. B. Beckett.”
Aug. 80,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
yon have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno's Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Pam—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX.
Jfist Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free,. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS "
AND PROSE IMAGIN INQS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.'
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Ciaxton and the
■ Author.
Contents.
Part i.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings,
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—6vThe
Lay of the Fat Man —6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shaeabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with'a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram,. Chief of; the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes, at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bribe’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.'—11., ‘‘East Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing. Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—2i. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carnian..
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning . Post. .
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“Comic-literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to he rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity.*.. . The unfortunate .Hadjl;s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians, of'Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published", for'1 years.’. ..
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—"^ one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability... . Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
hut one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to he sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientifle mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all Ul-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); A.M. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal cf Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientifle literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
. “ In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himseif.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover. ... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely hound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in ifs contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and' some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of .verses, and prose, essays of. unequal
merit. .. . The seeious and, -sentimental -yevses .belong .to, the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s dr L B..libsiproductipnsd.’ ££
From The Kensington News. r\ , t ’ »
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood,* Marie Twain, or any
of those merry souls'who..dQ. qui,tep.ap,.muoh gqod.-iii theif day. and
generation as the authors of the quost. serious works.- The lays
' are always original, so'metimesf 'serious,"’generally’ cdmic,' but
■ nevervulgar,”,'  -
From The Malvern News. . . n M
“ It is in' itself, a .work of, itself—original, ■ and ,,a .cast. ofiUs
. author’s,^nind.. It is,a work of-great, power and beautyfrill of
lively.imaginings aiid bold outspoken 'thoughts,'abounding in
.tenderness and pathos; sparkling,with wit and humour; and one
that may'he read many times over.*.. The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The'Folkestone News.
, “ A,number of .cleirgr skptcheAand poems, among the latter
.being; a' series of papers ’entitled” Yhe Wgbblejaw{Ballads,
I'appeared- in i the*- columns ’ off this* pajfer 1 at’short * time11 ago,
andvwhich * created * moh' & 'furorer. att'the ttimb.’.’ HAMm An
1 irate'niember of the Town'-Counciltdfiicially calledHfie-attention of
the>Majyor,and Cbrpdrdtipn of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejdw Ballads,’’ but- the members assembled daughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayoy said that he
did not mind them.'] 1.If-.contains> some Very choice dbeiffs
• and prose essays, Ishound in cloth richly gilf, ahd'has an original
desigiuof no ordinary merit bn the coyer.”
Obtainable, price 7s.‘ 6d.’,' post free,' at the1 Branch Office of the
.iSfpmfttaHsf Newspaper,'Lbudoii', WiC;' y
MESMERISM AND'ITS PHENOMENA, . ,
OR .
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the Zafe, Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
1 Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace ,
the Duke of Argyll.'
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition,c for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free, for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in .half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations ■
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeri c
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena; of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
: CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep' Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the;Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sjunpathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—^Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible StSite^-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub?;
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—!
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeefs—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S liritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenhach—His Odyle is identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borgalis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful AppUcations of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subieet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
hulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Scienc
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of.
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be StudenG-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of th
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair-,
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Cleyrg-
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance —Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary. ? ,
London: W.O. NpinfMaZ&f Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
