Registered as A Newspaper,
S>f© joUi(K®i< f>BydSoi<OG[idSi<
}(Mtoi it^ixrspapr rrmit^b- foxt^ xn <3xmi §niam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON: ix, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule*
vard des Capucines”, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA»
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gas^e. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. xoxo, Seventh-street.
No. 301.—(VOL. XIL—No. 22.)
Contents.
Enthusiastic American Attestors of Phenomena   253
A Memento from the Grave  ... 253
Belief in Spirits ...     '254
The Establishment of a Psychological Society in Paris:—
A Scientific Society for the Study of Psychology,
Authorised by the Minister of the Interior—Constitu¬
tion and Laws...    255
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—The
Fourth Annual Keport of the Council  256
Searching a Medium ...  258
Bare Mental Gifts., By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S., Author
of Letters to Miss Martineau ... ...    258
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—An¬
nual General Meeting ...    258
A “Dead" "WomanTelling the Story of her Murder:—A
Seance in the Haunted House—The Truth of the Tes¬
timony of the Spirit Investigated—The Finding of the
Hammer ... ... ... ... ... “  ... ' 259
Composite “ Spirits" Constructed by the Imagination 261
Missionary Labour in Connection with Spiritualism. By
Emma Hardinge Britten    261
Poetry:—The Queen of Mischief  ... ... 262
Correspondence:—The Bibliography of Spiritualism—
Artificial Memory and Natural Faculties—Nirvana—
Spirit Identity—Remarkable Spiritual Phenomena in
Birmingham—Symbolical Messages Given through
Mediumship—Swedenborg’s Doctrine of Correspon¬
dences ..       262
The Future Foretold     263
A Night Seance at a Grave   264
Paragraphs:—Spectral Hares, 253 ; Useful Printed In¬
formation for Distribution, 254 ; Dr. Sexton, 254;
Clerical Minstrels, 254 ; Indian Jugglers, 264 ; The
Sunday Society, 255 ; Personalities in Spiritual Lite¬
rature, 255; A Woman’s Heroism, 257; The Opinion
of a Low Church Newspaper, 267 ; A Bishop Opposed
to Murder, 258 ; The Necessity for Religion...  264
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spintualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contrihutors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;nHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey: Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal: Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersourg);
the Baroness Adelma Yav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Dop. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fahyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
he “Life of •Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. Wilham Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles'(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Rlchardsoh,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O,
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritucuist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.C.
LONDON: FRIDAY, MAY 31, 1878.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Calendar.
JUNE.
Monday, 3jyZ.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m. Paper by Mr. W. H. Har¬
rison, on “ Some Recent Experiments
in Weighing Mediums.” •
Wednesday, 5th.—Soiree, at 38, Great Russell-street.
Address by Mr. J. W. Fletcher, “A
Spiritualist in Egypt," at 8 p.m.
Exhibition of Pictures by Artist
Members of the Association. Re¬
freshments at 7 p.m. and at 9 p.m.
Friday, 7th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 pm.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
C. E. Williflms, Medium.
Tuesday, 11th.—Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at.6,30 p.m.
Friday, 11th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
C. E. Williams, Medium.
Monday, 17<7t.—-Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
Wednesday, 19th.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m.
Friday 21s#.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m. Mr. C. E.Williams, Medium.
Tuesday, 25th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.15pm.
„ House and Offices Committee, at 6 p.m.
Wednesday 26th.—Enquirers’ Seance, a.t 8 p.m.
Friday, 28th.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of hooks on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sko.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office days—^Tuesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 2 to 4 p.m.
MISS ELLA & MR. FRANK DIETZ
WILL GIVE
RECITATIONS
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
During April and May, on
Wednesday Afternoons at 3 p.m. (beginning April 10th), and
Saturday Evenings at 8.15 p.m. (beginning April 13th).
N B.—There will be no recitation May 8th.
Tickets may be had at Mitchell’s library, 3 3, Old Bond- street;
Hayes’s box office, 199, Regent-street; at the Hall ; or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denhigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of fourteen recitations, one and a half guineas each. Single
tickets—Stalls, 3s.; chairs, 2s. ; balcony, Is.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Now Ready, Price 2s. 6d.,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
The Spiritualists’ Quarterly, for April.
CONTENTS:—
Editor’s Address.
I.—Ethics of the New Age.
II.—Experiences of Astrology in India.
III.—Mystical Poetry.
IV.—Modem Materialism.
V.—Dante and Beatrice.
VI.—The Sentiment of Immortality.
VII.—A Seance with Mrs. Marshall.
VIII.—Pilgrimages in France. No. 1.—To Paray-le-Monial.
IX—Psyehography.
X.—Buddhism and Christianity.
XL—The Miracle Land.
E, W. Allen, ll, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, Wi
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of nfan. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars maybe obtained on application to
. FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes SARGENT. This hook, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modem Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London. 
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23. ^  
SCARCE AND VALUABLE BOOKS.
(Second hand.)
The Spiritual Magazine, Vols I. to XIV. (A.D. 1860 to 1873),
£7 10s.
The Celestial Telegraph (Cahagnet), 12s.
From Matter to Spirit (Mrs. De Morgan), 10s.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best, quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can ha
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, tea., tee.
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.OJ
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2, On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Rnssell-street, London. 
Bedroom to let, furnished, with
use of Sitting Room and Piano, with or without Board,
in the home of an old Spiritualist. Three in family. No other
lodgers. Would suit an elderly person, male or female.—
Address T. W., 21, Wingmore-road, White Hart-lane, Tot¬
tenham'
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 31, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Colderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parfefleld,'Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Berriard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, H.vde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwlck-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Massey, O. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev.N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Blnney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., lateofH.M.S. “Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-nill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E„ 3, Park-road,Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Airs.. 6. Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould, Rev. W W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Alanor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa. Church-end, Finchley, N.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawb.rid.ge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock. St. George. M.A., 8. Aluseum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Alark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. At., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Walhouse, AI. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. II., ALA., LL.A1., care of A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs^ 1, Crme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J • E. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisllngbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan deRassim Pacha aBahdj^Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonohitz, hei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guidenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mtne. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey.U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britien, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-slreet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. U. Gledstanes; Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Cfiinnery,Esq., 2,Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Teimessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. -L. 'O’Sullivan, Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
Lonton.N. W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace,' Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq.; 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, B'uda-Pesth, Hungary.
.Dr. A. E. Nehrer, .Eperjeg, Hungary.
J. w;. Day, Esq.,i),Montgomefy-place, Boston, U.S.A.
-Mrs^Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Df. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road. S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
  dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
 quiet and order essential to English Customs. 
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O. 
Works by the Countess oe Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, SpirituaHsm,
tfc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, E.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
The probable effects of spirit-
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Oo.
H~ EAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6dpaper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Oolby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Oolby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 16s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer,St, James's-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. G. WILLIAMS,
.61, EAMB’E CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above. '  
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND ;QLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint-
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty. 
MR. W. EGLINTON
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON
 S.W. 
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
 Agent for all kinds cf Spiritual literature. 
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, In
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.  
CURATIVE MESMERISM.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER,
(33 years established),
Attends Patients, and may he consulted at his residence daily
from 2 till 5,
10, BERKELEY GARDENS, OAMPDEN HILL, KEN¬
SINGTON.
Private Lessons in the art of Mesmerising. His Pamphlet
on “ Curative Mesmerism,” 7th Edition, price Is.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal-
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
Price 5s. Cd.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.,,
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Pakt I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Pakt II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XU. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.,
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London: 38, Great Russell-street. W. H. Harrison.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE -BIBLE COM¬
PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISE?. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O
t tl to xS to mb xtf
Volume Twelve. Number Tv7enty-two.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 31st, 1878.
ENTHUSIASTIC AMEBICAN ATTESTORS OF PHENOMENA, j
The American Spiritual periodicals have of late contained j
much, about the public exposure of fraudulent mediums. !
The names of some of these mediums have been connected j
with the movement, chiefly by third-rate attestors of phe- I
nomen a, who are so enthusiastic that they are unable to j
distinguish between what they believe and what they m
see at stances, so equally attest both as observed facts, n
The other witnesses who < were present bear testimony in j
private that such reports are worthless, but, out of politeness !
and dislike to contention, say nothing publicly; consequently j
weak-minded enthusiasts have unintentionally established ||
much fraud in the movement in the United States, and crash i
after crash has been the result, to the disgrace of Spirit- i |
ualism. Miss Snyder, who acted as a ghost in different j
costumes at the Bliss seances, was fully recognised as the j j
departed relative of this, that, and the other of the enthu- j (
siastic believers, who all cheerfully testified in public to |]
having seen the dear departed, and appended their names j
and addresses, but afterwards had the mortification of |
hearing the young woman tell, in a court of justice, how j
they had recognised her as what an auctioneer would call |
spirits, various,” and what private and particular tests she j
had given to each. Spiritualism would gain if the more j
rational observers at seances “ put the drag ” upon these j i
third-rate witnesses, who will certify as an observed fact any i
mortal thing the mediums or the spirits desire. I j
A MEMENTO FROM THE GRAVE. 11
The Banner of Bight of May 4th last republishes an j
article from The Cincinnati Commercial, signed a Viator,”
and states that this word is the nom de plume of “ one of j
our notable men, in high standing here, and great reliance I
is placed upon his assertions : ”—
Within the past few months I have had the opportunity j
of witnessing many of the phenomena given in the presence I
of a young lady, Mrs. Laura Mosser, of Newport, residing j
with her relations, and not a professional medium; in fact, j
she shunned the name as a synonym for charlatan, and often |
refused to exercise this power for fear of the contumely that
would be heaped upon her. She first discovered that she j
had this gift about a year ago, while u playing ” slate- j
writing, d la Pratt, with other young ladies. To her amaze- j
ment and horror, independent writing came on the slate
when she held it, and she dropped the slate and fled from the
room, believing it to be the work of the devil, although it
wrote her mother’s name in her own handwriting.
Her relations and friends finally prevailed on her to try j
it again, when the names of friends and strangers were
written in different ways by the professed controlling powers
or spirits. Not only do these unseen intelligences write, but j
hands are materialised, and come out from under the table j
and shake hands with persons present. All the manifesta- i
tions occur in the full light, where there is no opportunity j
for fraud, even should she desire to resort to it. Many j
remarkable tests of spirit identity have been given through
her, and on four different occasions I have absolutely proved |
the writing to be independent by putting the slate under the j
table cover, while she held it outside, making it impossible j
for her to touch it. In each instance writing occurred while
she thus held it. One evening we invited her to our residence
to test her power in the presence of a few friends. She j
came, and we placed the table immediately under the full |
blaze [of the gaslight. Seated in a rocking-chair, she j
would converse unconcernedly with the friends while the j
writing was being performed. Once the slate was brought j
out, and had written on it: u Viator, we have shown you ^
;| some wonderful things, but we will astonish you still more.”
Expressing a willingness to be astonished, after a few
moments’ delay there was written, “ Keep this as a memento
for me.” As there was nothing on the slate but the writing,
I asked, “Keep what?” The reply came: “The lock of
hair that fell on the floor as the slate was withdrawn.” We
looked, and, sure enough, there was a lock of hair ! I asked
whose it was. The reply came: “Your mother’s.” “My
mother’s!” I exclaimed, “It cannot be. She has been dead
nine years, and there is none in existence.”
Again there was written : “ My son, I tell thee it is a lock
of my hair, just brought from my coffin in Spring Grove.
Keep it as a memento for me ; ” signed in full with my
mother’s name. It certainly looked marvellously like hers ;
but what an impossibility ! Spring Grove, seven miles dis¬
tant, with the probability that there was nothing left of her
mortal remains; yet here was the hair—a very dark brown,
heavily streaked with grey—certainly the very image of that
I knew so well. Whence came it ? Why and how so close
a resemblance if it was not what it purported to be ?
Thoroughly aroused, I determined to test the matter, and
next day submitted it to a well-known physician and
psychometrist, who immediately pronounced it to be my
mother’s hair, and gave an accurate delineation of her mental
characteristics and person, and- finally said, “ She stands
beside you.”
Still dissatisfied, I called on Mrs. A. Coombs, the pro¬
fessional psychometrist, without telling any of the particulars.
She gave me a description almost in the precise language
of the doctor, and finally said, “ The spirit shows me that
it is your mother’s hair ! ” I now immediately wrote to my
sister in Indiana, inquiring if she had preserved any tresses,
and by return mail I received a lock of hair that she had
cut and kept unknown to me. On close comparison they
proved to be the same. I now took both locks to one of our
oldest, most prominent, and practical dealers and workers in
human hair, and submitted them to him and his associates
for examination, and after close inspection they pronounced
them precisely the same, and thus confirmed the statement
and fact that it was brought from the cemetery while we
were quietly seated in the room. It is certainly the most
remarkable and astounding phenomenon that ever came
within the range of my experience, and can be attested by
the ten persons present, proving psychometry to be true,
that spirits often hover near us, and that their power is
greater than e’er dreamed of in our philosophy.
Mr. T. Wilkes, of 21, Wingmore-road, White Hart-lane, Tottenham,
wishes to take an active part in the promotion of Spiritualism in his
neighbourhood, by the formation of spirit circles, or otherwise.
Spectral Hares.—The arrangements of the Post Office are in
some respects inimical to private enterprise. A short time since, a
| person residing some distance from Dautzig, having been requested
| by the proprietor of a menagerie in that town to forward two hares
to his address, found himself confronted by a postal regulation for¬
bidding the transmission of live animals by post. It then occurred
j to him to chloroform the hares, carefully calculating the dose, in
order that they might remain in an insensible condition till delivered.
But the train was late ; the parcels were verified, and laid aside in the
j sorting-room to be sent out next morning. Accordingly, a sorter entered
the room at dawn, went through the letters and parcels, and missed
j “ 108, 109, two hares.” He looked for them high and low, but in vain,
j Their disappearance seemed inexplicable ; the lock of the window was
j intact, the window barred, and the whole staff unanimously declared
that the parcel of game was there the night before. As the bewildered
] sorter again looked round the apartment, one of the hares shot by him,
| followed by the other, on the back of which the post-office stamp at
D was plainly visible ; both darted at the open door. This was
] too much for the nerves of the sorter, who almost fell to the ground in
astonishment; and the thought of the two spectral hares would have
long embittered his lonely hours had not the proprietor of the menagerie
called to inquire after the expected consignment, and explained the
] circumstances. It is needless to add that “ 108” and his companion
were never afterwards seen,—Court Journal.
254
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 31, 187S,
BELIEF IN SPIRITS. | <
Ossian, as rendered by Macpherson, pleads that the dead |
still exist, because their ghosts are seen. I know full well j
the senseless incredulity which will greet this argument. It j
requires the audacity of conviction to pronounce it. I never j
knowingly beheld an apparition, whether ghost, wraith, or j
doppel, and I have no expectation of ever seeing one. But j)
I am sure that if beings exist in an ethereal or spiritual j l
form, there are persons who are capable of perceiving them. |)
I do not believe that all spectral appearances are produced j i
by a deranged digestion or disturbed molecular adjustment j(
of the brain. I am totally incapable of such credulity. j)
To illustrate this belief we will now cite two or three j (
examples which it seems to us cannot be candidly questioned, j (
M. Matter, a French gentleman, holding a position in the j)
Department of Public Instruction at Paris, stated to a well- j j
known American, in 1859, that he paid a visit to Friedrich j j
Oberlin, the celebrated pastor of the Ban-de-la-ftoche in j)
Alsace. Oberlin submitted to his inspection a manuscript | j
prepared by himself, entitled Journal des Apparitions et In- j \
structionspar Heves.- He found it to contain, among other j)
things, a narrative of a series of apparitions of his deceased j s
wife,* and of his interviews (entretiens) with her. u Oberlin | j
was convinced,” said M. Matter, “ that the inhabitants of j
the invisible world can appear to us, and we to them when <
God wills; and that we are apparitions to them as they j
are to us.” i
Miss Anna Maria Porter, the author, relates that during j
her residence at Esher, in Surrey, England, an old gentle- )
man was in the habit of visiting her house of evenings, h
reading the newspaper and drinking a cup of tea. One j (j
evening she saw him enter as usual, and seat himself at the j j
table, but without speaking. She. addressed some remark n
to him, but he made no reply. After a few seconds, she saw j <
him rise and leave the room without uttering a word, jj
Astonished and alarmed at this conduct, she immediately (
sent a servant to his house to make inquiries; The reply j
was brought back that the old gentleman had died suddenly 5
about an hour before.
It is also related that a gentleman in London who was /
familiar with the late George Smith, the celebrated Assyrio- j
legist, heard his name called in Mr. Smith’s natural tone of j
voice on the afternoon of the day that he died at Hierapolis, j
in Syria, August, 1876. {
Indeed, so general is the belief of mankind, from all j!
antiquity, upon this subject, that there is no people among | i
whom apparitions of the dead are not related and believed, j |
i* This opinion,” remarks Dr. Samuel Johnson, “ which pre- |
vails as far as human nature ia diffused, could become j I
universal only by its truth; those wlfo never heard one j j j
another would not have agreed in a tale which nothing |
but experience could make credible.” Addison also j j
declares : “ Could not I give myself up to this general j
testimony of mankind, I should to the relations of particular |
persons who are now living, and whom I cannot distrust in i
other matters of life.”—A. Wilder, in li Evolutionf U.S.A. jj
There seems to be some mistake in the annual report of the ) j
National Association of Spiritualists, in that the rent received by the \ |
Association for let-off rooms does not appear in the accounts. j j
Next Monday evening, at eight o’clock, at the ordinary fortnightly i (j
meeting of the members and friends of the British National Associa- jjj
tion of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-street, London, Mr. W. H. j (!
Harrison ■will read a brief paper on “ Recent Discoveries made by i J j
Weighing Mediums during Manifestations,” to be followed by a dis- j) |
cussion. Hi
Useful Printed Information for Distribution. — Some neatly j j j
printed four-page sheets, “ Spiritualist ” size, containing the results of j < i
the recent experiments in weighing mediums, the certificates of Mrs. !) |
Weldon’s sanity, and particulars about the attempt to lock her up in a i) j
madhouse, may be had, post free, thirty'for a shilling, from the branch ! (j
office of The Spiritualist newspaper, in Bloomsbury. 1 j) j
On Wednesday next, the National Association of Spiritualists will j (j
hold its last soiree for this season at 38, Great Russell-street, j j I
Bloomsbury, London. There will be an exhibition of pictures by |) |
artist members of the Association, several of whom have kindly j \ |
promised to lend their works for the occasion. The names of Edwin j) j
Ellis, Florence Claxton, Cornelius Pearson, and Signor Rondi, ‘ are ! \ I
sufficient guarantee that the collection will be both excellent and ] j j
interesting. Mr. J. W. Fletcher will read a short paper, entitled “A jjj
Spiritualist in Egypt,” and the attractions of tbe eyening will be added j) |
to by some high-class pausic and singing. I u
Dr. Sexton.—“ To the Editor of | The Rock ’ (May 24th):—Sir,—I
have just returned to London after an absence of some weeks, and my
attention has this morning been drawn to a statement in your issue of
April 26th, to the effect that I presided during the previous week at a
meeting of Spiritualists. Will you allow me a small space in your
columns to say that the statement is utterly incorrect ? I have taken
no part in spiritualistic meetings for a long time past, nor have I the
slightest sympathy with what is called Spiritualism. I left the move¬
ment because of its anti-Christian character, and in this respect it has,
as far as I can judge, been gradually getting worse instead of better. I
am not likely, therefore, again to have anything to do with it. Apolo¬
gising for intruding on your valuable space, I am, &c., George Sexton,
Christian Evidence Society, 2, Duke-street, Adelphi, May 21.” [We
publish this letter with sincere pleasure. Dr. Sexton will find in
another column an explanation of the mistake—which we much regret
—as to the name of the chairman of the meeting in Grafton Hall.—Ed.
of The Rock.]
Clerical Minstrels.—The New York Times, after alluding to the
practice and the inconvenience of preachers introducing jokes and
Bufibonery into their sermons, proceeds:—There is, however, a plan
which would enable a comic preacher to combine religion and humour,
without at the same time “ desecrating ”—as stupid conservative people
call it—the pulpit. It is odd that tlie idea of organising a troupe of
clerical minstrels has never yet occurred to Mr. Talmage, or to any one
of his professional rivals. Such a troupe could give an entertainment in
which religion and humour would be beautifully combined, and which
could not fail to be popular. It would not be necessary for all the
members of the troupe to be ministers. If the middle-man—the grand
and dignified “ Mr. Johnsing” who propounds conundrums—and the
two “end-men” who make the jokes were to be eminent comic
preachers, their associates, whose chief business it would be to sing, need
not even be theological students. The entertainment would, of course,
consist exclusively of religious songs and jokes. Instead of propounding
secular conundrums, as, for example, the familiar one as to the door
which is not a door, the clerical “ Mr. Johnsing ” would confine himself
strictly to Scriptural subjects. For instance, after the overture by the
full band, “ Mr. Johnsing” might remark, “Brother Talmage, who is
the smallest man mentioned in the Scriptures ? ” Brother Talmage,
gracefully laying his bones on the floor beside his chair, would then
reply, “Who am de smallest man in de Scriptur? ” and “Mr. John¬
sing” would repeat, “Yes, sir; I asked who is the smallest man
mentioned in the Scriptures ? ” Then Brother Talmage would give it
up, whereupon Brother Beecher, with much eagerness, would suggest
“Bildadthe Shuhite,” amid a chorus of “yah, yahs,” from the rest of
the troupe; after which, “Mr. Johnsing” would announce as the next
thing on the programme, “ Now, brethren, the 199th Psalm.”
Indian Jugglers.—Mr. J. Nevil Maskelyne, of the conjuring firm of
Maskelyne and Cooke, is writing a series of papers on “ Oriental
Jugglery” for the Leisure Hour. Here is an extract from his last
article:—“ During the Prince of Wales’s tour in India most of the world-
renowned feats of jugglery were produced before his Royal Highness.
Dr. Russell describes them, in his own bright way, without any of the
romancing usual in such narratives. Of course the mango-tree mystery
was included in the royal programme, but in the strictly veracious
chronicle of Dr. Russell it cuts a very poor figure compared with the
ordinary reports of the marvel. He says the conjurer put the
seed into the ground and covered the place with a ‘ dirty cloth.’
Some time elapsed, and then ‘ the old fellow, in an interval of snake¬
charming, exposed a bright green tree, some eighteen inches high. The
mango-tree, when next it was uncovered, appeared hung with tiny fruit.’
This is a milder form of the trick than what we have been led to look
for. The true ‘ traveller’s story ’ rivals that told of a London conjurer,
recorded in a ballad in Blomfield’s History of Norfolk. It was about
1570. The wizard planted an acorn in the middle of the hall, and in a
few moments it,grew into a tree ; acorns appeared upon it, ripened, and
fell, and then the tree was felled by two sturdy woodcutters, who might
have given Mr. Gladstone a start. The trunk and fragments were
finally conveyed away by two goslings, who could not have been so much
geese as they looked to perform such a feat. Doubtless that London
conjurer ‘ of credit and renown | emigrated to India, and set up as a
* fakir to do you ’ in the mango-tree business. With regard to the latter
mystery, Major Price many years ago hazarded a singularly happy
guess. He wrote:—‘ I have, however, no conception of the means by
which it was accomplished, unless the jugglers had the trees about them
in every stage, from the seedling to the fruit.’ The conjurers do carry
the trees concealed, but not upon their persons, which are too scantily
clothed for the purpose. The ‘ trees ’ are really slips hidden in the dirty
cloth, which is specially made with pockets to hold them, and under
this the juggler fumbles a long time ere he can get his tiny tree to stand
upright in its little bed of earth. As we have seen, the mango-tree
trick was performed before the Prince during an interval in the snake¬
charming. * The juggler suddenly produced two cobras out of one of the
baskets,’ says Dr. Russell, ‘ which had been turned over, inside out, in
our presence. A thrill went through the spectators as the reptiles, hiss¬
ing fiercely, raised their flaming eyes and hooded crests, and reared on
end as if to strike the garrulous charmer. It was not the drumming or
the playing of his friend on the dry gourd which drew the reptiles out of
cover. The snakes danced to the music of a gourd drum, but it was with
rage and fear, not with pleasure. Dr. Fayrer opened the jaws of the
larger one with a stick while the man held it, and showed the Prince
where the fangs were not.’ Dr. Fayrer, indeed, was a terrible enemy to
humbug all through. Once, when a juggler professed to play upon a
trumpet through a hole in his neck, the doctor proved the sound to-be
produced by ventriloquism; he held a feather at the mouth of the
instrument but no wind moved it. As a matter of fact, all the cobras
carried about for exhibition by these jugglers are fangless, and have the
fang-tooth cauterised in addition, so that it shall never grow more.”
May SI, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
255
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY
IN PARIS.
{Translation of the Prospectus.)
X SCIENTIFIC SOCIETY FOR THE STUDY OF PSYCHOLOGY, AUTHORISED BY THE
MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR.
CONSTITUTION AND LAWS.
Articles. '
1. A society has been formed at Paris under the title of “ A
Scientific Association for the Study of Psychological Subjects.”
2. Its aim is the study of all sciences related to psychology.
3. It is open to all persons who may desire to take part in such
studies, without distinction of nationality or religion. It belongs to
no party, and takes no part in politics.
4. The resources of the society consist of :—
Firstly.—The annual subscriptions of its members, of which the minimum is
25 francs.
Secondly.—The donations which may be made to it.
5. Every person sending a subscription of not less than 500 francs
becomes a life member of the society.
6. The society is governed by a president, and a committee of
fifteen, elected by the members at the annual general meeting.
7. The president is elected for one year, and is always eligible for
re-election ; the committee is renewed every three years, and members
going out are likewise eligible for re-election.
8. The committee appoints its staff, consisting of a president, two
vice-presidents, two secretaries, and a treasurer. It makes its own
rules, and is bound each year to make known ‘the position of the
association. It also appoints honorary members.
9. To become an acting member of the society, it is necessary to
write to the president stating your desire to join the society, and to be
elected unanimously by the members present at the sitting of the
committee.
10. The rules can only be altered at the general meeting.
11. The central offices are at Paris, on the first floor of the Passage
des Deux Pavilions, 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs. There is also
an entrance to the “ passage ” at 6 and 8, Rue Beaujolais (Palais
Royal).
The following are the names of the founders of the society :—
President—M. Bougueret, formerly Deputy.
Vice-Presidents — M. Baroux, Engineer; and M. Rene - Caille,
Engineer.
Secretaries—M. Ch. Loman, Author; and M. Camille Chaigneau,
Author.
Treasurer—M. Vautier, Merchant.
Members—M. Fauvertz, A uthor ; M. Eugene Nus, Author; Le
Baron du Potet, Author; Le Docteur Conan; Colonel Devoluet
(Retired); M. Joly, Worker in Marble ; M. Ch. de Rappard, Manu¬
facturer; M. Caron, Proprietor; M. Francis Vincent, Proprietor;
M. Hippolyte (fils), Merchant.
The founders of the society wish to attain the following purposes of
the association:—
it To have, a central office with rooms which will hold a large
audience, where conferences can be held for discussing questions con¬
cerning our life, the nature of the soul, and physical phenomena.
2. To have meetings set apart for the study of moral laws and of
spiritual phenomena ; all investigations to be scientifically conducted.
Competent observers, supported by men earnestly devoted to scientific
research, alone to take part in the investigations and in the discussion
of philosophical questions.
3. There will be a library containing such works of science,
ancient and modern, as belong to the questions under study. It will
be placed in the lecture and reading room. This room will be always
open to members of the society, and to visitors from the provinces or
abroad.
4. Ladies can be members of the society.
5. During the Paris Exhibition the rooms will be open from one to
ten p.m. The daily visits of students and thoughtful men of all nations
will tend to destroy ignorant prejudices, and to bring to the Spiritualist
cause open and candid investigators.
6. The committee invite all believers, men and women, in sympathy
with the work, to help to cover the expenses by subscriptions or
donations.
7. England, America, Holland, Hungary, Italy, Berlin, Madrid,
Leipzig, St. Petersburg, &c., have all preceded us in this undertaking.
In all tlaese countries there are societies similar to the one which we are
inaugurating at Paris on the occasion of our great Exhibition.
8. All subscriptions and donations should be sent for the time being to
“ 31. Vautier, Tresorier, Manufactu'iier'1'1 (47, Rue de Flandres), by
post-office order or in stamps.
9. The members who have founded the society have agreed to pay
their subscriptions for three years, and they invite others to do the
same, so that the society may start upon a firm basis.
The society is also in alliance with the office of the Revue Spirite,
directed by M. P. G. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris, to whom sub¬
scriptions may be sent.
A chief feature of Madame Blavatsky’s book, Isis Unveiled, is
thorough hatred of the Roman Catholic religious system.
Professor Tyndall thoroughly denounces the doctrine of spon¬
taneous generation. He said, in a recent lecture on this subject:—“ I
here affirm that no shred of trustworthy experimental testimony
exists to prove that life, in our day, has ever appeared independently
of antecedent life.”
The Paris Psychological Society has opened rooms at 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, and will be glad to see English visitors.
Mr. TV. Eglinton, medium, leaves London for Cape Town, South
Africa, early in July next. He contemplates visiting Australia and
India, and returning via the Suez Canal.
The Sunday Society.—This society appeals to all who, having at
heart the improvement of the people, desire to see vexatious restrictions
on the use of an inestimable privilege superseded by legislative enact¬
ments which shall represent the freedom and enlightenment of the age.
It desires to secure the co-operation of everyone who recognises the elevat¬
ing influence of science, literature; and art, and wishes for the addition
of an intellectual observance of Sunday to that which has hitherto exclu¬
sively obtained amongst us. The society deprecates any attempt either to
make Sunday an ordinary working day, or to introduce any element that
would tend to endanger the preservation of such a beneficent social
institution: submitting that the objection often felt to the slightly
increased Sunday labour required by the opening of places of mental
I culture and recreation will disappear when it is seen that the officers and
attendants perform services analogous to those given by officials at
places of worship; and, moreover, that by employing one-seventh more
I attendants than are now engaged, a weekly day of rest will be secured
to every one. In order to unite all classes in a strenuous effort to effect
! changes so inseparable from true progress, and so important to the well¬
being of every individual, it has been resolved that a subscription of
| any amount from those agreeing with the society’s objects shall consti-
i tute membership. These objects are to obtain the opening of museums,
| art galleries, libraries, and gardens, as such, on Sundays, and by a more
| equitable arrangement to extend to the whole of the community many
i advantages now only enjoyed by a section of it. So long ago as 1854 a
I Committee of the House of Commons adopted a resolution, which stated
that “it is expedient that places of rational recreation and instruction,
I now closed [on Sundays], should be open to the public after the
I hour of 2 o’clock p.m.; ” subsequently Sir William Molesworth opened
Kew Gardens on Sundays ; and it is noteworthy that the Government,
in 1875, introduced a measure favouring legislation in the direction of
the society’s aims, which many of the Opposition members not only
\ | supported, but sought to extend. The Act then passed in Parliament;
i! being a temporary one, the subject will necessarily have to be recon-
1! sidered, and everything favours the conclusion that an earnest expres-
| i sion of public opinion is alone needed to bring about legislative action
) | worthy of a grave question and a free people. To elicit this opinion is
[ | of the first importance, and it is hoped that the most cordial support,
i irrespective of creed or party, will be given to this endeavour to effec-
! tively solve the Sunday question.—Mark H. Judge, Hon. Sec., 19,
(| Charing Cross, London.
(| Personalities in Spiritual Literature.—Censorious personalities
(| have, as a rule, been firmly kept out of these pages, and only in relation
(I to acts of violent and unprovoked aggression,, calculated to publicly
Ji injure the movement, may they be justifiable, as in the example in
(| which ■ Mr. William Howitt told the thousands of readers of the
II Christian World that the British National Association of Spiritualists
(| called upon its members to renounce Christianity. In that highly
(| prejudicial statement there was no truth whatever. When the National
! Association first raised its standard of friendly union among. Spirit-
! | ualists, Mr. Howitt wrote of it—“ I, for one, declare that I will have
| nothing to do with any such a Noah’s ark. There can be no real bond of
(| union betwixt good and evil, wisdom and folly, between clean and
) | unclean. ... I, myself, have but one way, and that is the way of
(I truth, righteousness, and sound sense, as they are taught in Jesus
(i Christ. . . . With the murderer, the adulterer, the swindler, the blas-
[ | phemer, or the drunkard, I have nothing to do.” Beautiful sentences
(i these to utter in an unprovoked attack upon the most refined and
(i cultured Spiritualists in Great Britain ! Last week another altogether
> | unprovoked attack was made upon Spiritualists by Mr. Dawson Rogers,
| who published that the members of the Council of the National Associa-
|i tion of Spiritualists have not the courage of their convictions: a foul
) | charge to bring against such working members as Mr. C. C. Massey,
11 Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Dr. Wyld, Mr. A. Calder, Mr. Stainton-
i; Moses, and others, whose unflinching public and private adhesion to
{j principle has often been well tested. The truth is, that in the general
(1 harmony and peace of the National Association Mr. Rogers is a solitary
| jarring string, and when his inefficient proposed measures are over-
| j whelmingly outvoted at the Council, he commonly flies into a passion
| because he cannot have his own way; Mr. C. C. Massey has twice of
j late at Council meetings publicly called the attention of the chairman to
i his misconduct in this respect. At the farewell soiree of the National
(j Association to Dr. Peebles, Mr. Dawson Rogers was in the chair, and
I i refused to let more than himself and one other person speak in relation
() to Dr. Peebles, to the utter astonishment of the meeting and the disad-
(j vantage of the invited American guest. Mr. Rogers did not yield, even
) I when it was evident that the feeling of the whole meeting was the other
? j way. Thus at least some four or five friends of Dr. Peebles had their
(j parting words quenched, and the National Association had to take the
(i blame of the failure of the meeting, for we threw the mantle of charity
/ i over the individual incompetency by not publishing that Mr. Dawson
(j Rogers was the cause of the breakdown. Neither have we hitherto
II published anything about his fits of passion when outvoted at Council
) | meetings by intellectual majorities. It may be asked how he came to be
(| appointed chairman of the farewell meeting to Dr. Peebles. It was
) | done at a meeting of the Soiree Committee, at which only Mr. Dawson
11 Rogers and two ladies were present; these three made the arrange-
j I ments. He resigned his appointment on the Library Committee
; I because the other members would not make him chairman of it. He
| j is being raised at Council meetings by coming into contact with persons
(j who have long outgrown the conditions he brings with him of strife and
S1 contention, but who then have to enter the inharmonious sphere,
THE FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL. I
To the Members of the British National Association of Spiritualists,
May, 1878.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—
In presenting you our report of the proceedings of the
Association during the past and fourth year of its existence,
your Council desire you to note that the present position of
the Association is to be estimated, not according to its
financial prosperity, but according to the usefulness and
solidity of the work which it has accomplished.
This work, as we shall presently show, has been more
particularly in three directions, each, as we believe you will
all agree, of great importance to the end which the Associa¬
tion has in view—viz., the consolidation of the spiritual
movement, by the establishment of a general rallying-point,
of a centre for inquiry and scientific research, and of a depot
or arsenal for the preservation of literary, artistic, and other
matter of permanent value for present use and future
reference.
We will first glance at some of the statistics of the
Association :—
The number of our ordinary members is now 320, of
honorary members, 69. Among the latter we have pleasure
in rioting the honoured name of Mr. Alfred E. Wallace, who
has again during the past year given the prestige of his
illustrious name and of his literary talent in defence of our
cause, and by his tournament with Dr. Carpenter in Fraser's
Magazine, the Athenmum, and Nature kept the subject of
Spiritualism before the public during the space of several
months. In Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, the great Florentine
banker, Miss Lizzie Doten, the inspired poetess, and Mr. H.
J. Newton, of New York, we recognise names known, and
honoured by all in the spiritual movement. A new spiritual
society, founded at Bogota, in Colombia, South America, has
sought and found in our Association that alliance which we
are anxious and willing to enter into with all engaged in our
particular work. Its representative, Senor Parga, spent
some time in England last year, and was a frequent guest at
the seances and meetings of the Association.
Among the English societies for the promotion of Spirit¬
ualism, the Dalston Association of Inquirers, the Liverpool
and Brixton Psychological Societies, and the Cardiff Spiritual
Society still remain in alliance with us, and are working
actively in their several districts. At Dalston and Brixton
frequent stances and discussion meetings are held, for admis¬
sion to which facilities are given to investigators duly
introduced by members of the respective societies. The
Dalston Association possesses a considerable library of its
own; and the other allied societies can be supplied with books
from our own Association by a convenient and inexpensive
arrangement.
We have to mention with regret the departure from among
us of Mr. James Wason, who had been a member and a
vice-president of our Association from its earliest days; of
Mr. C. T. Hook, of Eochester; Mr. W. Hodgson, of London;
and the Honourable Eobert Dale Owen, of the United
States, so well known to us by his valuable contributions to
the literature of our movement.
On the whole, the past year has not been specially eventful
for English Spiritualism. Since the departure of Dr. Slade
for the Continent there has been no public prosecution of
Spiritualism in the law courts; but there is reason to fear
that private Spiritualists are liable to persecution under the
lunacy laws. Spiritualism has, nevertheless, been quietly
and steadily pursuing its way. Within this Association
valuable work has been accomplished by the library, stance,
and experimental research committees.
The library of the Association has considerably increased j
since our last report, and now contains 870 volumes, not j
including periodical literature, the bound volumes of which |
are about 160 in number, and the lending library, which
consists of 140 volumes. Thus the sum total of volumes !
amounts now to 1,170. Of these rather less than 100 have j
been lent to the Association, the “ David Wilson collection”
alone comprising 79 volumes. With all deductions, the |
library numbers over 1,000 volumes. Of the entire collec¬
tion a complete catalogue has been made, the books have 5
been classified and numbered, and each now stands in its
allotted place on the shelves. A fund, amounting to £25,
started at the beginning of this year by Mr. Peterson, and
placed at the disposal of the Library Committee, has enabled
them to make some useful additions, and to do some neces¬
sary work in binding periodicals, completing files, and
acquiring some of the earlier literature of the movement,
now only to be recovered with difficulty from oblivion. In
this work the committee will persevere (not more than half
the fund being yet expended), and they hope in time, their
efforts being duly supplemented by their successors, to'
furnish the library of the Association with a complete collec¬
tion of all the literature of Spiritualism. Much aid may be
given to this work by friends sending in information to the
committee of the whereabouts of the rarer works on the sub¬
ject, especially newspapers and journals, which are often the
less carefully preserved, and therefore more difficult to procure.
Great attention has been bestowed lately on correspondence
with our foreign members, and on procuring the past and
present literature, American and Continental, in relation to
our subject. This work will be continued, and will probably
receive some impetus from the proposal of the managers of
the Revue Spirite to open a reading room for the accommo¬
dation of foreign Spiritualists in Paris, during the Exhibi¬
tion there, and to supply it with books and journals in all
languages, and from all countries.
Turning now to the work of the Seance Committee, we
find that the inquirers’ circles have been continued through¬
out the year with the desired results; that is to say, that
under strict test conditions, subject to the scrutiny and
expressed approval of the strangers present, and held in a
moderate degree of light, certain simple physical manifesta¬
tions have been produced, generally of the most satisfactory
and convincing nature. The medium has been Mr. W.
Eglinton, who has always shown the utmost willingness to
submit to any test which has been proposed, and has, we
believe, in all cases left the impression of his perfect good
faith, and of the genuineness of the manifestations produced
in his presence, on the mind of all witnesses. These seances
have been attended by 135 strangers, besides about the same
number of members. Each seance has been placed under
the charge of a member of the committee, who has carried
out its provisions, and furnished a report to The Spiritualist
newspaper, in compliance with the wish of Mr. Chas. Black¬
burn, under whose auspices, in conjunction with those of Mr.
Martin Smith, the seances were instituted; and the Associa¬
tion owes it in great measure to the amiability and vigilance
of these gentlemen, that the inquirers’ circles have been kept
free from the scandals to which public seances, where
strangers can attend without restriction, are occasionally
exposed. The fund by means of which the Association has
been enabled to give free tickets to all inquirers introduced
by members, or otherwise proving their hona Jides, being now
exhausted, the Stance Committee have endeavoured to arrange
for the admission of inquirers on a plan which shall not
place the Association at a disadvantage before the law. The
success of this remains to be proved.
Other seances, arranged for by members among themselves,
have been occasionally held on the premises of the Associa¬
tion, at which very satisfactory form manifestations have
taken place; but these not being necessarily held under test
conditions, and its being no one’s business in particular to
report them, they have passed over unnoticed.
The work of the Experimental Eesearch Committee,
valuable as it is, must, from its nature, always proceed slowly.
Experiments have to be repeated, and continually verified,
before they can be pronounced complete. We must, there¬
fore, wait the committee’s own time for making special
reports of their proceedings. In one department under
the charge of the same committee, the results have been
plainly evident and appreciable by all. The Monday evening
fortnightly meetings have, under the able and energetic
management of the Eev. W. Stainton-Moses, been raised to
a level of literary and scientific excellence which leaves
nothing to be desired. To the interest of the debates Mr.
Stainton-Moses has himself contributed notalittle, and tohim,
as well as to Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, who has diligently
attended on almost all occasions in his capacity of chairman,
to Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. C. C. Massey, to Mr. G. E. Green,
$5(5
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 31, 1ST8.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Hay 31, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
257
and others who have contributed papers and joined in the j l
discussions, the thanks of the members are largely due, as ij
well as to the editor of The Spiritualist, who has given much I
space in his valuable journal to the insertion of the papers. j
The soirees have been continued monthly during the j
greater part of the year, with unabated success. In the j
month of August last a reception was given to those sincere |
and ardent friends of our cause, the Baron and Baroness von j
Yay, when, notwithstanding the unpropitious season, a large i
gathering assembled to welcome them. A similar meeting | j
took place on the return of our Secretary from her visit to j
the United States, and latterly we had the pleasure of wel- j
coming one of the greatest of the spiritual workers of our j
time, Dr. J. M. Peebles, on his arrival in England from his j
second journey round the world. j
The financial position of the Association at the close of If
the year 1877 may be seen by referring to the statement j j
appended to this report. The expiration of the Guarantee j |
Fund having caused some anxiety as regards the immediate | |
prospects of the Association, a committee was appointed to- j |
wards the end of last year to examine into the accounts, and J j
to devise plans for furthering our financial prosperity. This ||f
committee having been prematurely dissolved, was succeeded } j
by the General Purposes Committee, who have issued a j i
circular which has been sent to every member of the Associa- | j
tion, soliciting contributions to a fresh Guarantee Fund, i j
and recommending that all members should raise their sub- ! | j
scriptions as they might feel able, in order that the Associa- j j
tion may be made self-supporting. This has been responded j j
to with a promise of aid at present amounting to £70, about j j
half the sum calculated for our actual requirements. Your j j
Council sincerely hope that the requisite sum will be j
collected, by each member doing what is in his power, as i
the service rendered to the cause of Spiritualism by the j
Association cannot be estimated by the comparatively small i
amount of income annually raised for its expenses; and the j
subscription for membership having hitherto been optional I
only a few have taken into account that the advantages j j
afforded them have been offered at a very cheap rate. Your j j
present Council have recognised the principle that the burden I j
of supporting a national institution should not rest upon the if}
shoulders of a willing few, and they, therefore, strongly urge j j
the recommendations of the General Purposes Committee upon ‘j j
the consideration of the members of the Association at large, jl
Chief among these is a higher rate of subscription for the j j
use of the reading-room and the numerous other privileges ||j
afforded, such as attendance at discussion meetings, the loan j j
of books from the library, and admission at low rates to | j
seances. Your Council have resolved that the subscription j j
from all new members shall be two guineas, which is the jl!
price ordinarily charged by societies of this class, and for m
fewer privileges than are here offered. It is.understood that | |
old members may remain, if they so desire, on the former j j
footing; but, as you have seen by our late appeal, it is | |
desirable that those who can conveniently do so should raise j j
their subscription to the same amount; and we are glad to 11
announce that a fair proportion of members has already j j
responded to this request. It has also been resolved to i j
continue the agenda on an enlarged scale, under tbe name j
of Proceedings of the Association,” and to include in it all j !
information relating to the arrangements at these rooms, as |
well as short reports of stances and other meetings, and a j
list of books in the lending library. It is hoped thus to !
make a paper of sufficient interest to be considered a fair j
return to those who are unable to enjoy any other privileges for j
their subscription. j
In the list of our benefactors this year must be placed j
first the name of our revered president, Mr. A. Calder, for his j
constant attendance at, and interest in, our meetings, and j
his generous contributions to our funds ; M. C. Constant, who j
has given a donation of sixty volumes, all of great value, to j
our library; Madame Blavatsky, who enriched our shelves |
with a complete collection of the works of Andrew Jackson j
Davis; Mr. Peterson, Mrs. Lowe, and Mr. Cranstoun, for I
their donations to our library fund; Mr. C. Blackburn and j
Mr. Tod for their continued support to the Experimetal I
Research Committee; Mr. Algernon Joy, for his gratuitous |
.performance of the secretary’s duties during her absence j
in America; Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Miss H.
Withall, the Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, Mr. W. Newton, Mrs.
Maltby, Mr. Joy, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. F. Barrett, Mr. E.
Dawson Rogers, and others, as workers on our committees;
Dr. Carter Blake, for valuable assistance and time bestowed
upon cataloguing and other work in connection with the
library; and Mr. M. Theobald, the faithful Chairman of
our Finance Committee.
In conclusion, your Council feel that the position ot
the Association is a creditable one, and they have every
confidence that you will not fail to make its financial re¬
sources equal to its needs. With increased funds, much
greater extension could be given to its labours, especially in
the provinces, a work which the present Council distinctly
recognise as a duty, but which, under existing circumstances,
they have not felt themselves justified in undertaking.
Dr.
INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT.
For the Year ending December 31s#, 1877.
Cr.
£ s. d.
Rent, Rates, &c  129 0 11
Advertising   38 3 6
Salaries, Wages, &c  217 8 0
Stationery and Printings 23 9 0
Postage   16 15 7J
Charges   5 13 9
Housekeeping   1 17 6
Library   26 10 6
Furniture, &c  1 0 4£
£459 19 2
Prize Essays,
Stock  £4 10 9
Petty Cash in
hand     3 4 3
  7 15 0
Cash at Bankers £85 13 7
„ less due to
sundry cre¬
ditors   78 16 6
Balance 1st Jan., 1878 6 17 1
Balance Jan. 1st, 1877 .
Subscriptions 
Donations   
Do.
Do.
£
11 6
280 4
47 7
107 17
s. d.
1
3
15 17 6
Guarantee Fund
to Research Com¬
mittee £40 14
Expended 24 16
Balance in hand —
to Inquirers’
Seances £40 1 0
Expended 28 7 0
Balanceinhand 11 14
Public Meetings Account
(profit)     0 5
Do.
£474 11 3
£474 11 3
Audited and found correct, Jan. 1th, 1878.
(Signed) Moreli. Theobald, Public Accountant. ) .
Henry Cook, on behalf of the Association.) ■A-uauors,
A Woman’s Heroism.—Sister S , of the Order of Troyes, needs no
adjectives. It would be a waste of breath to call her a woman of
sublime courage and superhuman heroism. The Paris papers do not
even publish her name ; but that is well, for it would not look well in
columns that are stained and blurred with the names of miserable
sinners. This was what she did:—She had taken some sick children
out for a walk in the country, the oldest being only eight years of age,
and they were suddenly assailed by a sheep-dog, whose jaws were
running with foam. She instantly saw the danger of her charges, and,
resolutely interposing between the terrified children and the furious
animal, bravely withstood its attack. She was severely bitten, and the
dog, excited by the cries of the children, endeavoured to rush upon
them. Protecting With her body the children, who hung on her petti¬
coats shrieking with terror, this brave girl threw herself courageously
on the dog, and for ten minutes grasped it, rolling over with it, and
thrusting her hand into its mouth to prevent its biting the children.
Some peasants, who came up at last, beat oft’ and killed the dog. The
sister was found to have fifteen deep wounds on her hands and lacerated
arms. Skilful care was given to her wounds, and for a short time after
her return to Paris there was some hope that she might escape the
ultimate fate which there was so much reason to fear. In «, week or two
hydrophobia in all its characteristic symptoms appeared, and Sister S.
died from this fearful disease. She had saved five lives.— Woman's
Journal.
The Opinion of a Low Church Newspaper.— “Our readers will
remember our giving (in the I?oc& of the 26th ult.) an account of a great
meeting of Spiritualists held in Grafton Hall, at which Dr. Davies is
said to have spoken approvingly of the movement, and then—after
! referring to the course of spiritualistic sermons which he was delivering
| ‘ in the church of his friend, Archdeacon Dunbar ’—to have dismissed
[ the uncanny company with the apostolic benediction. A fortnight later
we had again occasion to allude to these circumstances while discussing
the rules of a certain club, on the committee of which we found Bishops
| Jenner and Suthey (Aberdeen), Dr. Davies, and Archdeacon Dunbar.
| After remarking, apropos of the committee, that we did not happen to
| know ‘ Lieutenant-Colonel Larkins and Major-General Fooks,’ we
| went on to observe : ‘ Everybody, however, has heard of Dr. Maurice
Davies and his friend, Archdeacon Dunbar, in whose church he is now
preaching a series of spiritualistic sermons. Nor have we yet forgotten
| that it was Dr. Davies who gave his solemn public benediction to a
I room full of necromancers and spirit rappers a fortnight ago. Are we,
then, to conclude that so-called “Spiritism” has the sanction of the
| right rev. prelates who take such a leading part in the management of
the Russell Club ?’ All right-minded persons will agree with us in
thinking that this matter is exceedingly serious, and can neither be
1 pooh-poohed nor hushed up.”—The Hock.
258
THiC SPtRlf UALtST.
May 31, 1878.
SEARCHING A MEDIUM.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
BY HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD, J.P.
For the purpose of testing the question whether the
white drapery commonly worn by the materialised spirit
may not be surreptitiously introduced by the medium into
the cabinet, I appointed a sitting with Mr. Haxby last
Monday. Without entering the room in which the cabinet
was placed I took him, at his own request, into a dressing
room, where he completely undressed before Captain James
and me. We saw that he had nothing concealed in any of
his clothes, unless it was in his pockets, which it was un¬
necessary to examine, because, when once the clothes were
laid by, it was impossible for him to take anything from
them without our seeing it. He then put on two dark
dressing gowns and a pair of slippers of mine, and in that
dress we led him to the cabinet in my study, without a
particle of white about him. The only other sitters were
Mr. and Mrs. Yolckman and another lady. Almost im¬
mediately something white was displayed for a moment at
the opening of the curtains, and after a while a figure in
white drapery appeared for a short time. Then Abdullah
came out dressed as usual in his long white night gown with
short sleeves, turban, and jewel on his forehead, coming up
and shaking hands with each of us. Afterwards a much
smaller and slighter figure, about four feet four or five inches
high, I should say, with the dark skin of an Indian, came to
the opening, and let me look closely at him.
^There was no possibility of the white drapery worn by all
these figures being brought by the medium. Whether the
body of the medium is used in the exhibition is a different
question ; but if it is, it is transfigured in such a manner as
is clearly impossible for the medium himself to effect by any
jugglery. The figures exhibited were of very different sizes,
and in one of them the skin of the face was of so dark a
colour as could not conceivably have been produced and
removed in the course of a few minutes behind the curtain,
always remembering that the medium had no opportunity
of smuggling in any materials with him.
31, Queen Ann-street, Cayendish-square, London, May 24:th, 1878.
RARE MENTAL GIFTS.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, P.G.S.. AUTHOR OP “ BETTERS TO MISS MARTINEAU.”
Ik reply to “ T. J.,” I may say that I have the cast of the
head of a woman who exhibited almost precisely the same
phenomena as “Natty” in the case reported. The poor
woman, in other respects, was quite an idiot, and was sup¬
ported by the parish. The clergyman who gave me the par¬
ticulars of the case, at my request had a cast taken of her
head, because it is upon extraordinarily exceptional instances
that phrenology principally rests. The celebrated calculating
boy, George Bidder, afterwards the eminent engineer, could
give no account of how he came by the results, which seemed,
as it were,*to flash into consciousness without any sensible
sequence or process. All he could say was, “ It is so and
so; I see it, and am sure it is so.” When the calculation
was made he was always found to be right. Of course it is
a form of# clairvoyance, and one which cannot reasonably
be denied. It is a new experience, though not based on
experience.
There have been other instances since. To reverse the
case, I have known a man highly educated, yet absurdly
deficient in the calculating ability. Newton tells us that if
there was any difference between himself and other men, it
was that he turned his attention to a subject and simply
waited for the ideas to come without further effort on his
part. But how the thoughts or results came, or whence, he
could not say. With a poet we should term it inspiration,
as with my late friend Barry Cornwall, with whom fine
thoughts would flow into his mind in verse without effort,
even when he was on an omnibus or engaged in some way.
Psychology based on physiology is but in its infancy, and
is a science for another age.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, May 29th.
The Religio-Philosophical Journal has recently published the sensa¬
tions of a man while being mesmerised by a snake. If the man him¬
self will attest it to us by forwarding his name and address for publica¬
tion, the facts are of permanent philosophical value.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING.
I Last Tuesday night the annual general meeting of the members of
| the British National Association of Spiritualists was held at 38, Great
Russell-street, London, under the presidency of Mr. Alexander Calder.
The minutes of the last annual general meeting were read and
I confirmed.
| Mr. E. T. Bennett moved* and Mr. Francis, of Brixton, seconded,
| that Mr. Jay and Mr. Dawson Rogers be appointed scrutineers of the
| votes for the election of members of Council. This was agreed to
j unanimously.
| The Secretary then read the annual report, which is published in
I another column.
Mr. Frederick Collingwood moved its adoption, which was seconded
j by Mr. March, who condemned Mr. Howitt for “ bearing false witness ”
| against the Association in the Christian World newspaper,
j Mr. C. C. Massey asked what became of the 135 persons who
I attended inquirers’ seances, as mentioned in the report ? Did they join
i the Association afterwards?
The Secretary said that some of them had been allowed to attend a
seance once, some twice, and a very few thrice. A fair proportion of
these inquirers afterwards became members.
| The Chairman remarked that some of the public complained about
i the payment of mediums for their stances. Could not some of them be
| given regular salaries, that they might not have to make charges at
| other times ? He knew one man who would give £50 in aid of this
j object.
] Mr. E. T. Bennett remarked that Professors Tyndall and Huxley
| were paid for the exercise of their powers, so he saw no reason why
a medium should not be paid for the exercise of his special faculties.
(Hear, hear.)
Miss Houghton added that mediums went through years of trial and
trouble in development; she knew that from personal experiments.
The Chairman remarked that mediums should not only be paid, but
j well paid.
The report was then adopted unanimously.
Two auditors for the ensuing year to represent the members of the
Association, Mr. J. W. Gray and Mr. G. H. Potts, were proposed by
Mr. Francis, seconded by Mr. March, and carried unanimously.
Some alterations in the rules were then authorised.
Mr. Desmond FitzGerald moved a vote of thanks to the President
for the able and conscientious way in which he had performed bis
duties during the past year. He had earned the respect of Spiritualists
in all parts of the world. (Applause.)
] This was seconded by Mrs. Lowe and carried with acclamation.
Mr. Alexander Calder briefly returned thanks.
Mr. J. M. Walhouse moved a vote of thanks to the committees,
which was seconded by Miss Houghton, and carried unanimously.
The Chairman moved a vote of thanks to the secretary for the
efficient performance of her duties; several persons rose at once to
j second this. Mr. C. C. Massey and Mrs. Lowe strongly supported it,
j and it was passed with acclamation.
Miss Kislingbury expressed her gratitude, saying that she had
always performed her duties con amore, and was thankful for the sup-
| port she had received from the members at large.
A vote of thanks was passed to the assistant secretary, Miss Burke,
who briefly replied.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald moved, and Mr. H. Cook seconded, that the position
| of Mr. R. Pearce, who, at the request of the secretary, had taken the
| place of Mr. Joy as a scrutineer, should be authorised, Mr. Joy
I having been obliged to leave in the middle of the work of counting
( | the election votes. This was passed unanimously.
) j General conversation then took place for three-quarters of an hour,
i | when the scrutineers returned from their work, and announced the
| | following persons duly elected as members of the Council :—F.
) | Barrett; Mrs. Beeby; E. T. Bennett; Cbas. Blackburn ; Carter
( | Blake, Doc. Sci. ; J. Bonwick, F.R.G.S. ; J. Chapman ; T. H.
j I Edmands ; Mrs. Ellis ; J. C. Eno ; R. Fitton ; W. H. Harrison ;
)| Thos. Hayle, M.D. ; Miss Houghton; Miss Hannah Hunt; G. C.
(I Joad; Edward Maitland; R. A. March; Rev. W. Miall; J. J. Morse ;
j j W. C. Pickersgill; Captain Rolleston; S. T. Speer, M.D.; G. N.
? | Strawbridga; Morell Theobald ; J. P. Turner; D. H. Wilson, M.A.
( I The proceedings then closed.
11 A Bishop Opposed to Murder.—It is interesting to learn from
11 the following paragraph from the Echo that one ecclesiastic in the
) | United Kingdom has spoken against war, against shooting our neigh-
(I hours, and against cutting their throats :—“ The Bishop of Manchester
11 preached at Leigh yesterday, and made some weighty observations,
| j worthy of being remembered, in reference to the existing crisis. The
j; contingency in which the nation is at present was, he said, so vast, so
(i infinite in its issues, so' far above the mere idle course of partisan
;j politics, that every Englishman should realise the actual position of
( i peril in which the nation was. He contended that the interests of the
| j world were so bound up that we could not saciifice the interests of
; j Russia without the interests of England suffering in some proportion.
(! At the most, there had not been more than three righteous wars in
} I which England had been engaged. This was not the time for people
) Ito sing war songs and go into a great war against Russia. British
(! honour ought to be touched more than it had been, British interests
j i ought to be yet more involved—unless we were going to lose the
11 character of a wise and understanding people—before we trusted our-
! >1 selves to the terrible chances of war,”
May 31, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
259
A “DEAD” WOMAN TELLING THE STORY OF HER
MURDER.
Questions are not unfrequently asked why spirits do not
do this, that, and the other thing—why they do not reveal
secret crimes ? The answer is that they often give such
information, but as they sometimes do not tell the truth,
and in other cases the receivers of the messages cannot prove
that the truth has been told, because they cannot put the
spirit in the witness box of a court of law, the revelations
never come before the public.
The Boston Herald (Massachusetts) of April 8th last, and
the Religio-Philosopliical Journal of May 4th, narrate that
a house in Washington-street, Somerville, Massachusetts,
has long had the reputation of being haunted, and was let at
a lower rent in consequence, to the present occupants, Mr.
and Mrs. Marsh. To abridge the narrative given in The
Boston Herald, the plastering was restored by the new
tenants, walls were repaired, wood-work painted, seventy-
eight panes of glass put in, and, with a good revolver, Mr.
Marsh said that he felt that he could u make it warm ” for
any ghost who might appear. April rolled by, and he con¬
gratulated himself. May came, and with it noises ; in June
they increased, yet he said nothing, and quieted his wife’s
fears by asserting them to be imagination. In July a child
was born in the house. From this time the disturbances in¬
creased. There were poundings overhead; tumblings down
stairs; the lifting of a window; its fall; moans, a noise
underneath, and then all was still again for a short time.
One evening a crash, as of dishes breaking, so far deceived
the head of the family that he rose, revolver in hand, and
went down to shoot the cat which he thought might have
got in. No cat and no broken dishes were seen. After
this, when he heard the movement of dishes, he paid no
attention to it, but a noise as of footsteps was often so
natural that he could not resist going out. The result
was always the same—nothing human, nothing tangible. It
is probable that, if Mr. Marsh had not been disturbed in
other ways, the present article would never have been written.
He did not believe that the place was haunted, and attributed
the noises to some peculiar construction of the house. His
wife, a Roman Catholic, had managed to accustom herself
to them. She had never given any attention to Spiritualism
or read anything relating to it; he, however, having seen a
Spiritualistic report in The Boston Herald lately, made some
inquiries, and among his acquaintances were two young men
who advised the holding of a circle in his house. The circle
was held, and, as a result, his wife saw forms in her normal
state. To her the visions were terrifying. Her husband, to
relieve her, took the advice of his friends to have a medium
there and “ release the spirit.” It was not satisfactory, and
ended only in his wife seeing more freely than ever. The
“ghost” was now a constant visitor. The wife had been
controlled twice in his presence, but he said nothing concern¬
ing the details of the personations. To him the matter was
becoming a mystery which he was determined to solve. He
commenced to receive information through her which he
thought she could not have become possessed of by natural
means. One Friday morning, when he was down in a cellar
of the house, he heard a voice call his name. He listened,
and again it called. “ Yes,” he answered, thinking it came
from upstairs. “ Here,” said a voice from the corner of the
cellar. ‘‘There,” whispered a voice in his ear, and before
he could realise it he was under what he never had discovered
before—a trap-door. The mystery was not only deepening,
but becoming decidedly uncomfortable. To move would be a
loss pecuniarily; to stay was to suffer these experiences.
A SEANCE IN THE HAUNTED HOUSE.
It was resolved to hold another stance in the house, with
Mrs. C. H. Wildes, of 52, Oak-street, Boston, as medium.
Three prominent members of the Somerville Local Govern¬
ment Board, and a reporter from The Boston Herald office,
were among those present on the occasion.
Mrs. Wildes was entranced by a spirit; she started down
stairs, closely followed by those present. A little room was
reached on the way down ; the medium paused in front of
the window, and, while a shudder passed through her whole
frame, she moaned, still clutching at her throat with one
hand, and pointing to the window with the other. “ There,
I there, I tried to scream, but he shut the window down upon
j my head.” At this stage of the proceedings the excitement
ij of the medium became almost uncontrollable ; she moaned
| incessantly, great beads of perspiration stood out upon her
| forehead, and, while continuing her efforts with one hand to
| remove the pressure of the imaginary hand upon her throat,
she pointed slowly to the floor, all the time repeating the
words, “ There, there, I was dragged along there.” Just at
this time Mrs. Wildes, who had been trying hard to articu¬
late a name, fell back helpless into the arms of one of the
persons present. A private medium, however, who was
| present at the time, was suddenly controlled, and in a loud
| voice said : “ My name is Bertha Stoughton.” This seemed
| to relieve the medium somewhat, and, after nodding her
| head in assent, she walked into the room in which the seance
| had been commenced, passed out into the entry, down the
I front stairs, along the entry, and stopped deliberately in front
| of a closet built under the stairs, in which Mr. Marsh says
] he has frequently heard the dishes rattling violently. Open¬
ing the door, she went through the motions of mixing and
swallowing powders, all the time sobbing, and moaning in a
pitiful manner. Again was the march taken up, Mrs. Wildes
leading the way. Stopping in front of the room which Mr.
and Mrs. Marsh occupy as a chamber, she moaned: “ There,
there. He came from there and gave me the powder. Oh*
I did not mean to do any wrong.” After a little time had
been spent here, she walked along the entry, out through the
kitchen, and down the cellar steps, all the time giving
utterance to the most blood-curdling moans, and repeating
the words : “ This way, this way; I came this way.” Then,
as if recollecting herself, she said: “ Oh, not this way !
Not this way ! Please don’t take me this way!” Leaning
heavily against one of the gentlemen, with her eyeballs
distended, and with every manifestation of extreme terror,
she said, pointing toward a partition: “ There, there! he
did it in there; but please don’t make me go in there again,
will you ?” The gentlemen assured her that no harm should
come to her, and finally she consented to accompany the
observers to the sub-cellar. Reascending the cellar steps,
and passing through the kitchen and out into a lobby, the
medium suddenly stopped in front of a dark hole, and
trembling in every limb, said in a husky voice: “ Please
don’t make me go there! Oh, please, don’t, sir!” Nothing
could induce her to go into the hole, and the reporter, ac¬
companied by three gentlemen, one a strong medium, the
other an enterprising newspaper man, and the third the master
of the house, made the descent. It was, indeed, a gloomy place,
about three fdet high by twelve feet wide, and with that
damp, uncomfortable smell always to be found in subter¬
ranean vaults. It was as dark as Erebus, and a place better
adapted for a brutal murder could not be found. In one
corner was a hole about two feet deep, which had been
| excavated by some tenant in his attempt to thaw the water-
| pipes, which had been at some time during the winter frozen
| up. In another corner was a pile of dirt, while around in
| all directions huge stones and rocks were scattered. Setting
| the kerosene lamp down upon the ground, the male medium
| previously spoken of became again controlled, and pointed
| out the exact spot where, as he claimed, the body of the
| murdered girl had been laid, and where the blows had been
| struck, and singularly enough it happened to be the very
[ spot from which Mr. Marsh heard the voice calling him on
| the Friday morning, and also the spot to which his wife
pointed when afterwards controlled. There could not have
been any collusion between the three, as the private medium
spoken of is a merchant of Boston, and knew nothing what-
, ever of the matter until he was invited by the Herald
\ | reporter to accompany the party. He was not downstairs
; | when Mrs. Wildes indicated the place; neither was the lady
11 of the house present on either occasion. Yet she a few
|) minutes afterward indicated the same spot. The different
I private mediums were soon'controlled all over the house, and
! they indicated that a murder had been committed, that the
i spirit making the demonstrations was that of the murdered
i girl, who was unable to escape from her murderer, who is
| still living, and who enacts the crime over again in his mind
| every day. When the observers returned to the room in
I which the stance fiTst commenced, and just as they had
1 seated themselves, Mrs. Wildes said;—“ I forbid my medium
260
THE SPIEITUALIST.
saying or doing anything further in this matter to-day. She ! i
has done enough already.” Just then the lady of the house, in j J
spite of all the efforts of those present to prevent her, slipped j j
from her chair, and, with one arm extended, and the fingers |
of her hands tightly clenched, fell to the floor in an insensible j
condition. Then Mrs. Wildes said:—“ We will now give j
you a personation of how the murder was committed.” |
Almost immediately the lady, who in the meantime had j
been lying on the floor, slowly raised her hand in the air, j
and struck four distinct blows on her forehead with one j
hand, saying at the same time :—“ Oh! oh ! please don't! j
I didn’t mean any wrong.” The seance lasted more than j
two hours, and was a constant flow of some item of informa- |
tion concerning the supposed murder. I
By these means it was alleged that the murdered girl was j
named <{ Bertha Stoughtonthat she had been betrayed j
by the man who formerly occupied the house, but whose pre- j
sent address is known. His name was given, but for suffi- !
cient reasons it is withheld. He kept house there, and she, j
after he had betrayed her, came to the house when enciente. i
This was in the month of August. She was a trifle above |
the average height, rather stout, and of complexion neither j
light nor dark. She wore a dark brown dress. Her hair was |
not black, but rather dark. There was no possibility of j
collusion, and yet each of the four mediums gave precisely j
the same description of the young woman’s appearance. Two |
of them gave the alleged murderer’s name and particulars j
concerning him. From these sources came the further in- j
formation that the girl, after remaining in the house but a j
short time, was given powders, and, while under their in- j j
fluence, dragged down stairs. It was an overdose, and when j
she reached the bottom of the attic flight she became sick, |
and threw up the poison. He then seized her by the throat. |
Breaking away from him she threw open the window, and j
loudly screamed for help. He forced the sash down upon j
her, drew her in, and down into the cellar. With a hammer I
he struck her four blows on the forehead, and threw the body |
into the cellar. The subsequent disposition of the body, as j
told, is a matter yet to be verified. The hammer with which j
the deed was committed has probably been found. I
THE TRUTH OF THE TESTIMONY OF THE SPIRIT INVESTIGATED. j j
The publication of the foregoing particulars led to excava- j
tions in the cellar, and various kinds of investigation. Mr. j
E. G. Brown, editor of The Spiritual Scientist, 50, Bromfield- j
street, Boston, Mass., publishes the following account (which, j
however, has been somewhat abridged by us) in The Religio- \
Philosophical Journal, Chicago, May 4th, 1878 :—
(i The Herald account which you copy refers to the j
haunted house on the Watertown road; the place was I
formerly owned by Mr. Daniel E. Chase, of Somerville, a !
gentleman well known in this part of the country, and also i
in the South. He bought it for the purpose of experiment- .
ing, and was one of a number of instruments who succeeded j
in weakening the mesmeric chains which bound several |
actors in a tragedy to the scene of its enactment. Mrs. j
Wildes was one of the mediums. This fact was not known j
to me at the time, and it is somewhat singular that she |
should have been the instrument on this subsequent j
occasion. j
p( In company with Dr. H. B. Storer, of Boston, I visited j
her present residence, 52, Oak-street; I had met her but j
once before, and then for a few moments only. When Mrs. {
Wildes came into the room she was controlled, and her |
guides showed themselves to be familiar with the case. It j
appeared that they knew that she was to go to the haunted |
house that afternoon ; therefore the arrangements were soon j
concluded, and the circle was made up as described in your I
columns. j
“The seance is very fairly reported; but the subsequent i
developments have not yet been placed before the public. |
The Herald bought the house for two days, or, in other |
words, the right for its representatives to do what they i
pleased with it. Three- professional gravediggers were !
engaged, and, in the dead of night, the cellar was turned i
over. It was not so carefully done as it might have been, ||
owing to the want of room. It was only three feet high. !
There was but little space to work, and the dirt was j
exami tied only as it was shovelled from the pit they were *!
May 31, 1878.
digging to the top of the heap. The result was the finding
of a few bones. A coroner who knew whence they came
pronounced them, after a hasty examination, to be the bones
of lower animals, although one might be a human bone.
“ In the meantime another seance was being held, at
which were present a Herald representative, also your corre¬
spondent, and Mrs. Wildes. ‘ The spirit controlled at
intervals, telling a straight and connected story of the
murder, giving names and dates.. She also drew a diagram
of the cellar, stated that the body was cut in pieces,
wrapped in cotton cloth and underclothes, and buried in
different places. That a part might have been removed ;
but the hammer with which the deed was done was buried
there.
“ The stance above referred to was held in the morning at
about ten o’clock. The Herald, at twelve, published the
story of the finding of the bones, and a diagram illustrating
where the diggers found the bones. The spot was one of
those indicated by the diagram drawn by the spirit of the
murdered girl.
“ I have this diagram now in my possession. You may
imagine that the revelation was to me a valuable fact.
Call it coincidence, those who wish, and mark what follows.
u The case had now assumed considerable proportions.
The community was excited. The t haunted house ’ was the
topic of conversation everywhere. The orthodox papers,
which will not give Spiritualism even a respectful notice,
commenced to trim their sails for what they thought was
coming. They said editorially that they had no doubt that
a murder had been committed there, and that this was
known to some enemies of the murderer; these enemies had
told the Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists had arranged
all these matters. Spiritualists were pretending to have
revelations from the spirit of the girl, but it was really
information elsewhere obtained.
“ Such was the attitude of the impartial press ! ”
“ The clues given were acted upon, and it was discovered
that there was such a man as the alleged murderer living ;
that he did live in the place named; that he did occupy the
house at the time set by the girl as the date of her murder;
that the family were all away at the time she stated; that he
did formerly live in a city named by her as the place in
which she made his acquaintance, and where she says that
she lived. Many other little facts happened as it was pre¬
dicted that they would. In short, a network of circumstances
seem to point at the truth of the basic facts of the story.
“ If I gave your readers the dates or the names, it would,
of course, be equivalent to charging the man who lived in
the house at that date with murder. No man has a right to
do this without the proper evidence. He should have the
proofs which would warrant an arrest, if not a conviction.
Candidly these are not yet in hand; but can it be expected
that a case of this nature can be worked down by amateur
detectives in a few days ? ”
THE FINDING OF THE HAMMER.
“ The cellar has been dug over again. At the depth of six
and one-half feet in a corner of the cellar, the Herald repre¬
sentative, who had charge of the digging, found a hammer
embedded in hard earth. It was very rusty, and stained
with red on the handle. Hair and some bones were found.
This spot also had been marked by the controlling spirit on
my diagram, as -the place where the hammer would be
found.
“ Neither Mr. Marsh nor any other person knew that Mrs.
Wildes was to be medium for the above, nor did she herself
know it until two hours before she took the cars for the
house. There was no time for any collusion or imposture,
even if such a thing could be possible. I merely say this,
not that it is necessary for the information of those who
know Mrs. Wildes, but merely to strengthen the above
evidence by removing this theory if it should be advanced.
All the articles found were embedded in hard earth, so that
they could not have been recently placed there. The house
has not since been troubled by the spirit. The manifes¬
tations have ceased.”
The latest news about the matter is that the whole neigh¬
bourhood was in a state of excitement, and Mr. Marsh about
to deliver a public lecture on the facts.
May 31, 1878.
261
THE SPIRITUALIST.
COMPOSITE “SPIRITS” CONSTRUCTED BY THE
IMAGINATION.
{From the “Religio-Philosophical Journal,' Chicago, May Hth, 1878.)
The appended narrative, necessarily restricted where it
touches upon the soul-life of those still living, is submitted
without further criticism than is furnished by the following
extract from a private letter:—
New York, May 16,1878.
Dear Sir,—I have been very much interested in the notes
you have forwarded to me. * * * Whether they are
veritable history or imagination they are valuable material
—especially valuable in their suggestions. The adoption
into the life pf beautiful ideals in place of God or in lack of
God, and getting an impulse to goodness from them, is a
unique process quite worthy of the attention of the psycho¬
logist. * * * J. G. Holland.
Some years since I came to this country a stranger—far
from all I loved, and unsuccessful at first, longing for home
and sympathy, having only the stars in common with my
friends, and not all of them. There insensibly grew up in my
mind a morbid self-pity that alarmed, yet comforted me;
then mobile imagination served me in good stead, making
rare meals by transforming bread and cheese into dainties
fit for the gods, gilding enforced nightly wanderings through
more than one of our great eastern cities with a touch of
romance, and making many bitter experiences while roving
from New England to the'Gulf of Mexico, and up and down
the Mississippi, the <£ great river/’ all subordinate to a
romance that I was weaving and living.
Haunted by a poem of Longfellow, The Two Locks of
Hair, I united the loving companionship of one dear friend
with the idealised beauty of another, the name of a third
and a romantic meeting with a fourth, and blending into one
harmonious whole their various accomplishments, with the
chivalrous devotion to women my mother had taught me,
thought much of my past life, and fell to musing on the
virtual death an dmigH suffers when he leaves all he loves
behind him.
Gradually there crept into the aching void which my life
knew, a fantasy that took tangible shape. I imagined that
I had lost a wife, that our little one was ailing, and passed
unscathed through many “ trials and tribulations.” I was
upheld by a determination to be worthy of this shadowy
past, to be true to the memory I had created (it pains me
even now to allude to my ideals as wholly imaginary), and
felt encouraged to persevere in securing to my non-existent
little one a thorough education and a cheerful home.
Although I knew that this was harmful, even dangerous,
I seemed to derive real strength and comfort from the
thought, and having what, at that time I was without—
something to live for—insensibly it became a part of my
nature, and fact and fancy so closely welded, that ! found it
difficult to realise I had possessed no wife, no little one, that
these phantoms with which I was sharing my life, had no
existence, save as they might foreshadow a happy future.
So the purely ideal angel companionship I had created
became an actual part of my everyday life. Vile dens, loath¬
some company, continued ill-fortune, were set at naught.
Finally, as circumstances improved, I dreaded the morbid
tendency, and submitted the heads of this hallucination to a
physician. He couched in pompous, technical language, his
real ignorance:—“ Morbid sensibility unduly exciting the
imagination, consequent on lack of proper nourishment;”
but from my father came a curious suggestion.
“ The case, viewed metaphysically, appears to me a re¬
markable instance of the transmission of a mental impres¬
sion from father to son, modified by circumstances, and in¬
tensified by want of sufficient nourishment. From the
latter cause the vital force would be unequally distributed,
and retiring from the stomach and digestive organs, might
be expected to concentrate in the brain.
“ When your sister was taken from us in infancy, I in¬
dulged in,the hope that she would go to be with a dear dead
friend, that the latter would be a mother to the little stranger
and introduce her among the angels. While my mind was
filled with these ideas, you made your advent into the world.
Your phantom wife and child seem to me but these two re-
! produced as the result of a mental impression of which you
11 were the recipient before you came into the world.
[j <£ At the same time, may they not have been really with
i j you, striving, by intensifying the impression, to shield you
11 from harm ?
11 ££ Ihave long believed in the existence of such impressions
11 derived from parents as a fact, but never met with so direct
)j a confirmation as your experience furnishes.”
jj In conclusion, since ideas communicated orally or in
j I writing are never received in the precise form in which they
11 are given, so with regard to impressions more purely mental,
j the recipient subject necessarily modifies, and reproduces
| them in an altered form. Alfred Bull.
! MISSIONARY LABOUR IN CONNECTION WITH
g SPIRITUALISM.*
( T BY EMMA HABDINGE BRITTEN.
| If “ we live in heart-throbs, not in figures on the dial,” as Festus
j | assures us, then is it a long cycle of ages since I left the golden shores
(i of California to wander forth in this land (Australia) of ungovernable
) i vastness; measuring time by ordinary processes of calculation, it is
(| just two months and no more since we set sail in the steam ship City of
j i Sydney for these Australian ports. The incidents of voyage present
)! nothing sufficiently new to deserve record ; a rolling ship and unceasing
j! storm for nine days between San Francisco and Honolulu left their
) usual traces upon our suffering bodies and weary spirits. Proportion-
) ably great, therefore, was our relief to land amongst the luxuriant
\ flowers and bloom-bearing cocoa trees, noble palms, and streaming flag-
) like bananas of Honolulu. Lovely laud !. and interesting in all its natural
) advantages is this charming Kanaka Island. But O what a life of
\ wearisome monotony, and vegetable endurance, is that to which its
j inhabitants condemn themselves when they retire amidst these tropical
) splendours of Nature, with no tokens of life or animation from without
j to stimulate the subsiding ripples of thought, save the periodical
|) irruption of passing visitors, or transient health-seekers arriving from
j) | time to time by the frequent steamers. Honolulu is very gay on
|( | steamer days. The Kanaka ladies in their best attire out riding
I) i (always, by the way, after Nature’s and reason’s fashion, astride their
j horses), vehicles shut up for a dreary three weeks’ rest brought out,
I (| dusted, and paraded before the eyes of sick ship visitors ; the splendid
j) j hotel, suddenly waking up from the lethargy of the past month’s sleep
] |; into a wonderful spasm of activity; in fact, Honolulu on steamer day
v| is like Rip Yan Winkle after a twenty years’ nap, preternaturally wide
| / awake. I could not help thinking—as I gazed upon and played my
I ( part in the busy scene, whilst my husband laid in stores of native
II oranges, mangoes, bananas, enough to provision our whole ship, and we
I) both glanced prospectively at what the fair town would be to-morrow,
i ( and for many another to-morrow, until the arrival of the next steamer—
!what an inestimable resource against ennui, to say nothing of spiritual
stagnation generally, would be the presence of a real live spirit medium
in that place, or the visit of some missionary who would undertake
the simple and practicable task of organising spiritual circles, with a
view of home development.
And here let me say, my wanderings in and about these wild Pacific
islands and unwrought scenes of human life, where true spirituality is
yet in embryo, are perpetually impressing me with the incalculable
value which missionary labour in the spiritual cause might produce,
! could such efforts be brought to bear in the right way. In the firs^
place, time and leisure are as necessary as energy and capacity for th
work. The transient visitor of a few days or weeks can do nothing tQ
awaken interest beyond provoking a temporary burst of antagonism0
Steady, resolved, and persistent effort is needed, first to stimulate,
curiosity, and then to organise practical methods of growth and
spiritual culture.
Next, it is important that such missionary effort should not be
hampered by the humiliating and obnoxious necessity of turning such
(labours to financial profit. The missionary who comes to plant the
gospel of glad tidings for very love of his work, and the humanity he
instructs, would be received with respect and confidence, and soon
succeed in opening up rich stores of spiritual wealth amongst the
j susceptible and not ungenerous natures which abound in these remote
\\ | lands; but the exhibitor who comes merely to peddle out the unpre-
|) | cedented wares or truths of Spiritualism for gain, and that in such
! (I haste that he has no time to study the idiosyncrasies of the people he
I)! would affect, had better “ move on ; ” he will find no harvest fields ripe
j j j for the sickle, nor a single ear of golden grain ready to reward his most
111 earnest attempts at proselytism. I have seen and noted all this with
| | the deepest regret. The cruel, the sordid need which compels us to
| /! make our attempts at proselytism our means of bread, shelter, and
| I clothing, paralyses our efforts, lays us open to all the apathy, or even
j | the insults, of the local press, and destroys that sense of sincerity in
I \ | our motives which would be for us, as it has been in every other
| (| gospel, such an irresistible source of influence over those we would
|) | convince. When will those of our ranks who have been liberally
n endowed with the gifts of fortune take these things to heart, and by
i) | helping to institute a world-wide mission for the glorious and welcome
I) I truths of Spiritualism, lay up for themselves treasures in heaven,
I which they know will yield them magnificent usury for every shilling
they invest ?
j Let it be understood that whilst I have long perceived this need,
long deplored that it could not be met everywhere, I realise it more
* From The Banner of Light, Boston, U.S.A., May 11th, 1878.
262
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 81, 1878.
and more as I advance into remote lands and visit scenes •where Spirit¬
ualism has been heard of and from, but where the distance from its
great centres of influence renders pioneer work and missionary labour
necessary to produce the fruits of true knowledge.
If I touch upon this subject no more, it is nevertheless the well-
recognised need of all the scenes I am now traversing, and mine is the
grief to find it is a need for which there is no proper supply.
Ponrs.
THE QUEEN OF MISCHIEF.
(A Song for Music.)
Music An Madelene—maid in her teens,
Seldom a girl so bewitching as she!
Frail as the autumn-nursed flower on the beans,
Wild as the faithless light spray of the sea 1
Captives we stood, as her lucifer eye,
Wandered and warn’d us, or held us at bay,
Thirsting for conquest, she beckon’d us nigh,
And labell’d the hearts she intended to slay.
Friend after friend, did coy Madelene teaze;
Natures, as cold as the crags, would she melt:
She spoke ! and her breath, like the Midsummer breeze,
Yielded a fragrance that made itself felt.
She climb’d to your knees as climeth the vines
And feathery apple bloom up to the wall;
Stones may unbend, where such beauty reclines,
But beauty is mistress, and holds you in thrall.
Soft creamyhands with their map of blue veins —
Hands that could dip in the wee lily bells ;
These, set to fumble your curls and your chains,
Tenderly winning and working their spells.
Cherry-lipp’d Chatterbox—Madelene Clow 1
Broke the commandments which guided the home—
Saucily, made of each finger, a plough,
Left your dark hair, a rough fallow to comb.
Two honest hours did our toilet consume—
Minutes as many, and all is confused.
Mischievous girl! she has seized the perfume,
Innocent boots are now being abused :
Madelene christens them well with the scent,
Pours a fair dose of Cologne in our hat;
Breaks a choice vase, then tells you ’twas bent;
Secretly binds our new scarf round the cat!
Be this your specimen minister to man ?
A ngel of mercy ! saint in small shoes ?
Sing of her wonderful gifts, if you can,
Playing a game, in which older ones lose.
0 ! you autocrat! Madelene Clow,
Trying one’s temper, whilst airing your sins!
Restless and roguish girl—tremble and bow,
Come! kiss the plaintiff—I’m conquer’d—she wins !
J. T. Markxet.
71, Penton-place, Newington, S.E.
[Or eat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.^
THE BIBLIOGRAPHY OP SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—To those of your readers, and they are many, I presume, who
do not mind a little intellectual effort, and would like to have a peep into
theosophy, I recommend two books to begin with
1. Die sympathetisch magnetische Heilkunde, ete, 15, Abtheilung, 6,
Bibliothek, der Zauber, Geheimnisj u, S.W., Bucher, Stuttgart, 1851,
verlay von J. Shieble.
2. Matikon, oder das geheime System einer Gesellschaft unbekanter,
Philosophen u, S.W., Frankfurtum, Leipzig, 1784.
The last book is a very rare one, but I think it may be found in your
British National Library. I must add that to read the latter one must
understand, besides German, some Latin, Greek, French, and Hebrew.
Perhaps these references may be of some use to your readers.
Alpha.
The Hague, Holland.  
ARTIFICIAL MEMORY AND NATURAL FACULTIES.
Sir,—In reply to the question of “ T. J.,” who inquires whether
any light can be thrown on the strange mental phenomena exhibited
by Natty, I wish to state that Mr. Fairchild, professor of the science
of mnemonics, gave a public test just such as “ T. J.” describes, only it
was confined to one year. He afterwards explained ‘‘how it was done ”
in one of his course of four private lessons.
I could myself, although dull at figures, fix the day of the week
pretty accurately upon which any given day of the month fell in the
current year, and, of course, the same system would apply to any
other year, but I could neither do it so quickly as. Natty, nor go
backwards and forwards (the latter is infinitely more difficult than the
former) any number of years, as he appears capable of doing.
I do not for one moment mean to say that this - explanation is
sufficient to account for this singular mental phenomenon (for Natty is
not at all likely to have taken, lessons of Mr. Fairchild), but it shows,
I think, that the same, or similar, feats may be performed by simple
natural means.
I remember a West Somerset peasant, named Dave Norman, an old
servant of my father’s, who had the faculty of judging weight so
largely developed that he could tell with remarkable accuracy the
weight of a rick of hay or straw, and was quite an authority in such
matters with my father, who almost envied the useful talent possessed
by his old servant.
I think we should be quite justified in expecting the inharmonious
or abnormal development of certain faculties among the uncultured
classes, who are deprived of that true education which aims at the
proper and harmonious development of every physical, mental, and
moral faculty appertaining to the human organisation.
Eliza Boucher.
Albion Villa, Fremantle-square, Bristol.
NIRVANA,
Sir,—We owe Baboo Peary Chand Mittra many thanks for his
deeply interesting and very instructive paper, “ Occultism and Spirit¬
ualism.” But we want more elementary instruction on these subjects.
Can he, and if so, will he inform us what those rites are which he men¬
tions as helpful “ for the attainment of supernatural faculties ?”
If Baboo Peary Chand Mittra will kindly instruct us in these rites he
will help on the good cause wonderfully and confer an everlasting
obligation on One who desires Nirvana.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—I have been much struck by Mr. Gray’s paper in The
Spiritualist of the 10th May, and I think that I can add one or two
cases to his on what is supposed to be “ thought reading,” proving that
it cannot be so. In the year 1861, when Mr. D. D. Home was in
London, apd in very wonderful power as a medium, I received much
kindness from him, and derived great comfort from his seances, which
were marvellous. To oblige me he agreed to give one at the residence
of a relation of mine, in whose house he had never been, nor had he
ever met one of its inmates. An old family servant had died in the
house six months before. She had first been nurse, and afterwards
housekeeper, and loved the two children, whom she had brought up, as
if they had been her own. Before Mr. Home arrived, the young lady
of the house said to me that if any message came to her that night she
felt certain it would be from her old nurse “Lowe.” Almost immedi¬
ately we sat at the table she was told that a spirit was there for her,
and on the alphabet being repeated “Mary” was spelled, and
she and I exchanged glances, feeling satisfied that the next word would
be “ Lowe,” instead of which it went on “ Mary, your grandmother,
who watches over you, though she never knew you in life.” Her grand¬
mother died two years and a half before she was born. This speaks
for itself. Mary Lowe was the nurse’s name. A. S.
REMARKABLE SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN BIRMINGHAM.
Sir,—As you were so kind as to insert my letter of the progress of
our Psychological Society, commenced about two months ago in
Birmingham under the mediumship of Mr. John Summerfield, I
thought it would be interesting to you and your readers both in
London and Birmingham if the following were published. When
friends from a distance visit Birmingham, they can have the pleasure
of witnessing the manifestations, and we shall always be most pleased
to see any Spiritualist who may call to see us. I may here state that
the medium is always willing to sit under any tests that the members
suggest; he is also always willing to have any test applied to prove the
truth of spiritual power. We have had five sittings since I wrote you,
and they all have been under similar test conditions to those used by
one of the committees of the National Association of Spiritualists,
such as tying the medium, putting him under an inverted sack, and then
nailing the sack all round the floor, after he has been thoroughly
searched by trustworthy persons present. In addition to phenomena
we have had at other sittings, such as the medium being floated in his
chair over the heads of the sitters and many of us feeling the soles of his
boots as he gently rose in the air, the control of Mr. Summerfield had
promised us some time ago that the spirits would bring into the room
under any test conditions something that had life, which promise they
fulfilled at our fifth sitting. All could hear the flapping of wings all
round the room before the object alighted on the table, and then we
heard something moving about and touching the sitters’ hands. When
the light was turned up, we were surprised and pleased to behold a
beautiful dove ; it was in a mesmeric state. After taking it away our
sitting was resumed, and we had some powerful manifestations of spirit
lights and hands : the sitters felt the hands under and above the table,
pressed them firmly; the spirit hands raised the hands of the sitters
towards the ceiling as far as they could reach when standing on their toes;
the other sitters stated that they then had hold of the medium’s hands.
The spirit lights were astounding, as we had three or four at once
spreading all over the room after exploding on the table. At our next
sitting one of the sitters was presented by her spirit friends with a
beautifully coloured canary bird ; in this case also the bird could be
heard flying round the room before jt came to the table.
The next was a test samce. After all the sitters had arrived, the
room was examined, and the medium was taken into an adjoining
room and underwent a most stringent search at the hands of three
gentlemen, one a physician of good standing, the other a professional
man who thoroughly understood searching. The medium was then
marched back and placed under the inverted sack, which hung from
the ceiling ; the sack was then drawn over him and nailed to the floor,
the light burning all the time. After a few seconds a white mouse was
seen to run out from under the sack, and the control stated that there
was still another inside, which proved correct. The sitters and searchers
firmly state that no mice were about the medium or in the cabinet
before the sitting, and as all this occurred in the light, they deny having
been deceived.
May 31, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
263
At our next sitting the medium was tied in a chair by the editor of
a well-known newspaper; then the chair was tied to the table, and a
cord passed from the medium’s feet under the table to the other end
of the room, which cord was held there by two or three investigators.
After the light was turned out, a bell, which was some yards from the
medium, was taken from its resting-place, and rung all over the room ;
it was then taken back again. All who held the cord stated that the
medium had not moved in the least, and, on a light being struck, the
knots were pronounced intact.
At our next sitting, the bell, a newspaper, a candlestick, match-box,
and a square wooden box were brought from different parts of the
room, and carried about in the air, sometimes all at once; sometimes
they were taken so far away that one could hardly hear them; then
they were brought again to the table, and dropped separately. At the
same sitting, Mr. Joseph Perks (the son of our president, who has long
been recognised as a good trance speaker) was controlled to draw in
the dark, and the production goes far to show that we shall have a
second Mr. D. Duguid, in Birmingham. Also at the same sitting,
Mr. Summerfield’s guides took the clapper out of the bell; the
materialised hands banded it to several sitters to prove that the bell
had no clapper; yet in a second of time it was replaced in the bell and
rung about the room. This was done three or four times. The light
being turned on, we found the clapper still out of the bell, yet not one
of the sitters was able to link it in the bell with his fingers.
I may here state again that Mr. Summerfield is as anxious to prove
the truth as we are to receive it, and does this (all at the loss of
valuable time) for the benefit of investigators, and without any
pecuniary benefit to himself. He has always given his time for the
benefit of any brother in distress, as was the case last Tuesday.
John Colley, Sec.
312, Bridge-street West, Birmingham.
SYMBOLICAL MESSAGES GIVEN THROUGH MEDIUMSHIP—SWEDENBORG’S
DOCTRINE OP CORRESPONDENCES.
Sir,—I send you some extracts from the spirit writings of my
husband’s first wife, Laura Prichard, which are of the same character
as those given by the lady in The Spiritualist of May 24th :—
Oct. ls£, 1856.—Mr. L is now in his new state ; he is surprised,
pleased, and feels he is among friends. He will be in a fine mansion,
as his heart is sound in integrity and neighbourly love. He awoke as
from a trance ; the angels were about him ; they led him into a garden
where there were children playing, and sheep and lambs, and he sat
down. The angels talked to each other; he listened, and was struck
with wonder; he asked where he was, and on being told pondered a
long time, then asked about the Lord. He was told he should see Him
if he wished, but he could not see Him in His Glory.
Oct. 2nd.—Mr. L—— is now reconciled to the novelty, and thinks
there may be truth in what the angels told him. He never saw such
beautiful scenery, but still everything is tempered to his state, and he
sees nothing as it really is, for he could not bear it. More states are
being constantly opened in his mind. Morning rays dawn on his mind,
and he begins to doubt former opinions. He is pleased with the colours
he sees on all things, and wonders why they are u correspondences,”
as the angels told him. He sometimes rubs his eyes to take away the
film, and often forgets that he is not on earth. There is a lake near
him ; he goes there often and gazes intently, and sees the objects of
his mind reflected. Many flowers are on the lake; he culled a rose,
and asked an angel how it grew there. The angel answered, “ Mortal
roses do not.. This sprung up because you were thinking of some
beautiful truth, and all things here are the likenesses of your thoughts.
This is a kingdom of ends and principles, and all you see is the reflec¬
tion of your own heart. When that heart loves the Lord or His
works, then all is varied beauty ; when it is doubting, clouds obscure,
and even your own garments change their hue.”
Mr. L was resting on a bank of flowers when a bird began to
sing a song which he thought implied sense; it seemed to speak the
notes of praise and love which were overflowing at his heart too full
for utterance. Now the song is taken up by a hundred voices, and the
harps of heaven are sounding, and the hearts are responsive to the
voices which speak in lively notes the feelings of love and praise. Mr.
L has undergone a change in his appearance ; his robe is shining;
he has something on his head which looks like a flowery wreath, and
on his arm a rod of flowering myrtle ; he is looking much younger, and
of a brighter temperament than he was at first.
Nov. 23rd.—Mr. L is sitting in a beautiful room ; the paper is now
an inverse sort of landscape; i.e,, it looks as dim as if it were going to
melt away till you fix your eye upon it, when.it rises into different
beautiful images ; there is a cage, and in it a bird—Mr. L ’s repre¬
sentative. He wonders that it cannot now sing and eat, but he has
drawn it from the bough on which it hung and where it met its mate.
Mr. L  is not quite happy; he does not feel harmonious. The
moment he reflects on what the angels love, he sees they delight
in the Lord’s works, and that is to induce others to mortify
the inclinations opposed to Divine goodness. This he is not
inclined to do ; he fancies perfect freedom is to leave man
to do what his conscience and inclination tell ; the angel tells
him he is wrong, for conscience there bends itself to inclination;
that Divine love is unalterable, and man must stoop his intellect and
his will to that law, and raise his conscience as he opens his under¬
standing ; the last words seem weighty, and he thinks it may be so.
The angel then shows him many examples of perverted conscience,
and at last Mr. L submits his opinion,; the wall opposite breaks
into a sunlit landscape, in which are seated on a bank two men ; the
one is praying, the other yields to natural inclination, and tempts
himself to steal from the pocket of the other a purse of gold; the
other knows it, gets up, and makes the thief confess, upon which the
culprit owns that the devil tempted him with the opportunity, but
I makes amends to his friend by his repentance, and promising to come
with him and learn to resist evil thoughts. Now this while Mr. L 
had taken a last look at his bird, placed it where he had taken it, and
asked if the angel thought the Saviour would enlarge the springs of his
heart, which were most marvellously rusty. u Try,” said the angel;
and he left him. Mr. L knelt to the Saviour of Mercies; at that
moment a loud note of responsive praise broke forth near him^
and a troop of singers went by ; the bird sang joyously as he left that
room.
Nov. 28th.—Walking in a garden near which is a temple erected to
the Lord, Mr. L smiles at the thought that even in heaven (for he
thinks at times that he is there, though he is not) are temples ; none
marvel but himself, at which he marvels, and is told the Lord accepts
all offerings, and looks at the motives; that some persons need the
outward satisfaction of their love to urge them to a still higher frame
of mind.
Jan. 8th, 1857.—Mr. L  is looking at a pedestal which many
have been raising to express their love to their Maker ; it seems to be
formed of beautiful stones, and each is representative ; the lower spirits
began it, and they put a layer of alabaster and marble stones;
between them was a silver rim, that shone and set-off the form of their
offering ; next came higher spirits, who placed some rubies, sapphires,
and onyx ; then came the beryl, the emerald, and the amber ; at last
the diamond and the pearl, and between them was a row of gold ; at
the top was man, myrtle-imaged, to show that he is immortal, but
made man by the truths and good which formed the pedestal on which
he rests.
Jan. 28th.-~Mr. L  was one day in a temple where there was
much thronging about the preacher, who was enlightening novitiates.
The discourse was on the parable of the Prodigal Son, and he told
them that the youngest son in the letter of the Word, seemed at the
last the better off. Now he was there to explain the spirit of the
Word, which was that the mortal part, or sensual, was represented by
the younger son, who chose to quit the house of his father, or that
light of religion implanted by his Maker. That when the evil had
brought the punishment consequent on sin, he repented, but though
received by the Father of Mercies, yet his elder brother could not be
re-united to him, i. e., the internal and the external were too mortalised.
The frame marred and disgraced the picture; the man of the internal
could not be reconciled to the sinner till love came with the tenderness
of a parent and reconciled every discordant passion, and the mantle of
charity was cast around the external; also until his natural principle
(signified by the shoes) was elevated. The ring was the conjoining
principle, and the supper was the delights of union. One thing more
was said. The piece of silver which the woman found was truth;
affection is typified by the woman; by -<f sweeping her house ” in¬
quisition in herself. The Lord is truth ; when once the truth is loved,
mortal things are held in no value. So the merchant sold all that
he had to purchase that pearl of great price. Go ye who would be
happy to the merchant who will sell that pearl, Mr. L  was
pleased with that preacher; he taught in no common way ; his eye
went with his tongue, and his voice penetrated through the double
doors of man’s heart—his love and his understanding.
H; Dec. llth.—Mr. L is making an ascent of the Mount of Loving
Truth, not in clear light at all times, but in less shadow.
Dec. \Qth.—Mr. L  writes himself :—“ My heaven is provided
for me; I drink from the living fount, and know no thirst.”
F. C. Prichard.
St. Andrew’s, Highland-road, Upper Norwood, May 27th, 1878.
THE FUTURE FORETOLD.
The following narrative is quoted from Memoirs of Georgiana, Lady
Chatterton, by Edward H. Deriug (London: Hurst and Blackett) :—
The first instance I am about to relate happened with regard to a
French family, that of the Vicomte de C , who were intimate friends
of Madame Marlay. The Yicomtesse was English. The Vicomte was
j on one occasion nominated, by the present King, ambassador to Naples,
and, not being very rich, was very glad of the appointment. This
| satisfaction was not, however, shared by the Vicomtesse, who was very
fond of Paris, and dreaded the change. When she expressed her
regrets to her old friend Madame Marlay, a few evenings before they
| were to leave Paris, the latter turned her large dark eyes suddenly to
| the Vicomte, and, after a moment’s consideration, looked again at his
| wife, and said, ‘‘Do not apprehend the journey or the change; it will
not take place. The Vicomte will not be ambassador at Naples.”
On hearing this the Vicomte remarked, with an expression half of
| regret and half of joking incredulity, “ Oh, dear Madame, pray do not
| deprive us of this appointment; you know how small our income is,
and what advantage the embassy will be to our children.’’
| “ I cannot help it,” she said; “ you will not go to Naples ; but never
| mind, I see plenty of gold for you in the future. After a time, in a
| few years, you will be very well off. ’ *
Some days afterwards there was an unexpected change of Ministry,
| and, in consequence, the Vicomte was deprived of his embassy.
All this I had heard some years ago ; I was myself a witness of the
conclusion. I was passing the evening with the Vicomte and Vicom-
j tesse and their daughters. No one was there beside ourselves, except
Madame Marlay. Several fancy balls had recently been given, and the
Vicomte’s daughters had gone to one in dresses of the time of Louis
Quinze, with their hair powdered, which had been particillarly becoming
to them. “Npw these balls are all over,” said the youngest, “how I
wish we could give one. By the bye,’ she added,,laughing, and turning
| to Madame Marlay, “ where is all the gold you promised my father that
time when you said he would not be ambassador at Naples ? It came
true ; so we hope the other half of your prediction will be fulfilled
1 also.”
264
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 31, 1878.
Madame Marlay turned gravely toward the Yieomte, and, looking
fixedly at him, said, “ He has got it. Yes, you are rich now ; it has
come to you.”
“I am certainly not rich,” said the Vicomte. “ On the contrary, I
am rather poorer than I was before.” There was much joking against
Madame Marlay, and many were the expressions of disappointment;
but soon the conversation turned to other topics, and I admired the
equanimity with which they all bore this second disappointment. 1
A day or two afterwards Madame Marlay came to me in great glee.
“Well, I was right after all,” she exclaimed; “they have got the
fortune. The letters arrived last night. The Vicomte had already got
the property the other evening, when I told him so. Lady E. M. had
died, and she had left him all her landed estates. I believe he never
even saw her ; but they were distantly related, and she has left him her
beautiful place in Ireland, and a good property. She died the very
day before I told him that riches had come to him.”
Madame Marlay also foretold the fate of the Princess Marie
d’Orleans, that beautiful young Princess who sculptured the now
famous statue of Joan of Arc. Madame Marlay was very intimate
with the King Louis Philippe and his family, and often passed an
evening with them in private. The Princesses having heard of her
second sight, asked her one evening to tell their fortunes.
“I don’t think I can do that,” she said; “my glimpses into the
future are quite involuntary. I can only say what I see at the moment
I am speaking. But, perhaps,” she then looked fixedly at the
Princess C16mentine, and said : “ I see great joy in store for you ; you
will live long, and have a happy marriage.” She then turned to the
Princess Marie, and I was told that her countenance darkened, and she
seemed reluctant to speak. After a pause she said: “ You, too, will
marry the man of your choice, and be supremely happy for—one
year.” The Princess married soon afterwards, and it was a very happy
union, but, alas ! at the end of the first year she was burnt to death.
Various other little predictions of hers came true. A few winters
ago she met Lady B  at a party, and introduced her to a young
French lady, of whom Madame Marlay was very fond ; but, with the
exclusive feeling which many English indulge in, Lady It did not
seem pleased that an acquaintance should be thrust upon her, and said
something to that effect. This annoyed Madame Marlay very much,
her dark eyes flashed, and she said, in a tone loud enough for several
people to hear—
“ Take dare—a misfortune is befalling your family—yes, at this very
moment there is a great fire—a great loss by fire.”
Lady It looked so dismayed that Madame Marlay was sorry she
had uttered her thoughts, and added :—
“ Never mind, it will be. a great loss, but not so much to you
personally. You will, perhaps, not regret having another excuse to
follow your own inclination, and live abroad.”
A person who heard Madame Marlay say all this described the scene
to me, and also told me that a few days afterwards letters came to
Lady It—— to inform her that her husband’s magnificent palace in
——shire was entirely destroyed. It was burnt down on that very
night when Madame Marlay told Lady B of it. It was not insured,
therefore the loss in every way was very great.
When I first became acquainted with Madame Marlay, I had heard
of her strange power, and, having no desire to look into the future, I
determined strongly in my own mind that she should never tell me
anything about myself. During the various winters we passed in
Paris, I saw a great deal of her, and during our last walks in the
Tuileries together, I spoke to her about her strange power, and asked
her how she did it—what impelled her, and, as in the case of the
Vicomte de C , what it was she saw or felt that induced her to
predict for him riches in the distance. I asked her also what it was
that enabled her to know that the Vicomte had already got the
fortune that night, when nobody had heard of the unexpected will, or
the death of the lady.
She said it was difficult to describe—that when she first told him he
would be deprived of his embassy to Naples, something seemed to
convince her that he would not leave Paris ; but she saw above his
head something like a cloud of gold, a long way off, and that years
after, on that night when we all met at his house, she saw the same
cloud quite near; it seemed to encircle his head, and then she knew
that the riches, from whatever source, had come to him.
“ And, in the case of Lady B , what did you see,” I asked, “that
made you say she was suffering by fire ? ”
“ She was surrounded by flames, and so was Lord B , and they
seemed so fierce round him as if they would singe his clothes; so I
knew he would feel the loss much.”
“But did you see flames round the Princess Marie,” I inquired,
“ that caused you to say she would only be happy for one year ? ”
“ No, thank God, I did not,” she replied. “I only felt, or seemed
to know, that her happiness in this world would only last one year
after her marriage.”
She also said that her power was quite involuntary—she could only
do it when much excited either by affection or dislike ; and she added,
as she looked into my eyes with that strange penetration which I had
seen in them when she spoke to the Vicomte de C ,—
“ It is very strange that, though I love you so much, I could never
tell you anything ; and I have always felt that you prevented me—
that you are preventing me now.”
I had never told her of my dislike to be told anything concerning
my future life; but I had willed strongly in my own mind that she
should not. That was the last day I ever saw her; we left Paris the
next morning, and she died soon afterwards, to my great sorrow.
The foregoing particulars are extracted by the author of the book,
from the diary of Lady Chatter ton,
A NIGHT SEANCE AT A GRAVE.
From the “ Farmington (Maine, U.S.A.) Advertiser."
WEcommencedholding spiritual circles at JabezMcDuffee’s
last fall, and have held them ever since on Thursday and Sun¬
day evenings. Mr. and Mrs. McDuffee, Mr. and Mrs. Stephen
Brock, and a young man and a daughter of Mrs. McDuffee
by a former husband, composed the circle. Mr. McDuffee
was an unbeliever, and would try to hold the table. At last
the table signified by rappings that he was controlled by
what was alleged to be the spirit of Joseph Rogers. On
Thursday night, last week, the circle was formed as usual,
and had been sitting but a few minutes when Noah McDuffee
came in. Soon after, Jabez McDuffee was controlled by a
spirit, who purported to be Joseph Rogers, and shook hands
with those of the circle with whom Rogers, when living, had
been acquainted. Then he arose from his chair, took his
hat and coat from the entry, went out into the rain, and
started up the street. Ijumpedupand followed him, and
implored Noah McDuffee to follow, but he did not. He
went quite fast up the Ten-Rod-road to the Rogers farm, a
mile from McDuffee’s, and passed between the house and
the barn to the graveyard. I was then close to him, and he
went to the grave of Joseph Rogers; a form mysteriously
appeared, which McDuffee embraced; the form laid its head
upon McDuffee’s shoulder. Though it was dark, and
raining quite hard, I could distinctly see the form dressed
in a full suit of black, and could distinctly see the fea¬
tures of Joseph Rogers. After standing there a minute
the form disappeared as mysteriously as it came. The
medium was weeping bitterly during the embracing.
Then the medium made three passes over the grave, and
turned his steps to the lower end of the house, went to the
cellar kitchen door, stepped about four feet on one side, fell
upon bis knees, and commenced to dig; after a few minutes
he unearthed a small bottle or vial and passed the same to
me, saying: u The contents of this caused my death.”
Resuming his work, he soon found the cork, which he also
passed to me. Then rising, he went to the shop, he ran
against it, striking the right side of his head and side, he
groaned, and would have fallen if I had not supported
him. He put his hands to his right side and said: u That
was the cause of my black eye and bad side.” Then passing
down the lane a rod or two, he became 11 limber ” and
would have fallen to the earth if I had not caught him. He
came then partly out from under the influence. The first
words he said were : “ Oh my head,” and he looked wildly
around him. Then he asked, “ Where am I, what am I out
in the rain for ? ” I then led him into the road, and half-a-
mile towards his home, before he fully came out of the
trance and knew where he was. We came to his house and
found the circle as we had left it, with the exception of the
absence of Noah McDuffee. The time from leaving the
house to returning was from three-quarters of an hour to an
hour. Stephen Brock.
State of New Hampshire, )
County of Strafford, ss. )
I, Stephen Brock, of the town of Rochester, do solemnly
swear that the above statement is true. So help me God.
Stephen Brook.
Subscribed and sworn to before me, in the presence ot
witnesses, this 18th day of April, a.d. 1878.
Thos. C. Hennem,
Justice of the Peace.
Nathaniel T. Kimball,
Wendell P. Ela,
Witnesses.
The Necessity for Religion.—We have many professed reformers
whose sweeping verdict would obliterate religion from the face of the
earth. They treht the whole subject as if it were not an integral
element in human nature, but rather as something unnatural and
terrible that has either found its way, or been surreptitiously intro¬
duced, into the constitution of man since his creation. Or, perhaps,
they view it as a very dangerous eruptive disease—alternately break¬
ing out and striking in—communicated by inoculation from designing
priests and doctors of the popular divinity. If this were a true view
of the matter, their extravagant attempts to eliminate the virus would
scarcely demand justification. But if, on the contrary, religion is an
important element in man, and absolutely necessary to the complete¬
ness of his nature, it would inevitably follow that if they could succeed
in destroying all religion, they would, in so doing, disorganise the
soul.—Dr. S. B. Brittan.
May 31, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay 'defining tire author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. fid.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. fid.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services.of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, ISs.; moderately abridged edition, Ss.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
BLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens1 these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals .were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and 'sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. III. „ . .
The Reformer. % IV. „ .
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . •
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis .
Arabula,-or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual .
Death and the. After-Life . ...
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , . . . .
T-Tarmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion * . •
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
. The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology .... 3
Morning Lectures . . . . • . .7
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spimtualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . .. . .60
The Wheel of the Law' (Alabaster)—A hook containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) - . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China 'to India (400 A.n. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 C
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A. . 10 C
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. ,12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert R. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown.
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale , 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description oj- Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Oloth, red edges. Price Is,; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Oolby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
OPINIONS OE THE PRESS.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of is priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not how enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-tnrning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a I'emarkahly clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF ’IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Charter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter Ilf Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—^Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Dane, Mr. II. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S'Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations tThrough the Mediumship nf
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New — Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t&
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London: W. II. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-steeet.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, Tbe Lord Linflsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London: W. H, HaheJSON 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new hook by
“ M.A. (OXON),” ON
PSYCH O GRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Pre|ace.
Introduction.
Psycography in the Past: GuMenstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L.G’SuUivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherhee, H. B, Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II  From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III  From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation o /
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—^Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev.,Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
Tbe Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens-
leigb Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writingi-mediumship of “M.A. (Gxon)”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakot—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea •• Mr. S lollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta ”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres or Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marry at—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Yay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A.'Burke—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
T'beobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci, Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sebnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the-
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
tbe Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon."
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfailen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russo
Wall act, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, W.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” cr
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, tbe whole nation will he
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, conseqfuently irreligious age ,*
nr
THE SPIRITUAL 1ST.
May 3i; 1878.
A
NEW ERA:
H
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE: AND PRE-
MATVRE 'REA'TII' by; NATtr.R'/L~ AfEAISTg
LORD BEAOONSFIELD'justly sfeted the other
day that “ the Jiealth. of itKap.eople Js; really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and p.ower as .a State-depend.”
For the most practical ihode of preventing desea^e and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with pach hottle of
UNO’S FRlUTy.SALT. - The. information is, invaluable.' As a
IIEALTH-GIVINrOpREFRESHIiSTG; COOLING,' and TNYIGO-
RA’ITNG -BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and'tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use END’S FRUIT SALT (prepared.
from sound ripe fruit). It is -the best preventive'and cure *for :
liilidushess, .Siclc Headache, Skin Eruptions,- Impure Blood,
I’imples on the Face,vGiddiness, Fevers, Feverishness,'Feverish
Colds,' Mental - Defiression, -Want of Appetite, Sourness of . the
SI omachv Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,.and td remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking. ’ *
jJ'NO’S . FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the , many
and varied medicinal discoveries of.the nineteenth.century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into, public notice
as’END'S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year,.or -so ago, this preparation, which is made
* from ripe soufid fruit, is hOw thet With in every quarter
• of- the globe. - The gi'eat merit wliich is claimed fori it is
that it keeps the blbo'd' pure and the sj-stem perfectly
• clear, and -thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned . blood will be ..considered - as offenpes
against the Well-being of.cb'mmuriities at large; but we..
will, in all probability, be some while-yet before , it S
siiall have arrived at such a pitch of sanltaiy, perfection, j
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold'a welcome to - any
« specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor-';
inghealth. The.simpler'the better, so lori|r only as it IS 1
effectual.' ENQ?S FRUIT SALT has been found an j
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the '
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. , It is better by.far than “nips;’,’ and -
' aTnbngst'the Good Templars—a numerous community all !
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
blit also as a stimulating Aiink.”~£uropecin H/craV, Nov. 1,
877. -
WHAT , EVERYBODY WANTS ' TO :
KNOW.
»(TNO’S FRUIT SALT.—A .Gentleman writes :—
JL “Since I.have used, END’S FRUIT SALT night and /
morning, my headaches; &c., have left me, and this after
• ^ •^suffering for above twenty years. You should make this I
'factjrell known.”
NO’S FRUIT 'SALT. —A Lady writes:-- i
“Everything, medicine or.food, ceased to act properly for
at least-three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was pne of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.’’ ‘
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING- TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
- INtTH-E WORLD. OUGHT .TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
SSflHB Aas .a ■ w -
GENERAL L iXATIVE- AKD TOKIC
IN THE VARIOUS EOR5IS OE INpigESTION. ^ * •'
GUARANTEED-TO BE PREPARED .FROM - SOUND' RIPE
> D -i , - /.FRUIT. : . Jm
The Unfit Salt is one of Nature’s pwn productso?Tt contains all
the viuueble ’ saline .eonstitaents of Ripe Fruit .in a portable,
agroeabIe,:'and ■ simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juloes of fruits from which it is obtained;
In I’imples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness ;of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not tpe least of. its
recommendations is its resemblance to .fruit in the natural way.
n which’ it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained,, poisons the'Llood; and its .advantages ;6ver
fruit isrihat it can befalWays at hand,when required. Its
preparation has hpen truly styled one of.the triumphs-of modern
chemistry.' • In hotloLfofeign climates it is invaluable, | It allays
nervous exeiteriierit;'and restores :the'nervous Aysfem -to its
proper c6nditibn-(by nattoal mbans)'. In the Nurpery at is beyond
-praise: '■ ----- A ■ ,;' i-S- f  • .
ENO’S FRUIT SALT -: gg
. .s particularly valuAhle/ Noffravdler should.leave home Wif^odt
a supplyrfbr/by its use- tJie^mQStidangeroiis .forms, of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured." It is, in truth, a
FanfilyiMedicineaGhest. in malestagjflt, ipqs.t .potent torm.
Instead of being lowering to; the 'system,-this preparation is; in
the highest»degree, invigorating^.A-ts.effect in relieving thijist,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking,
.T^NOlS iFRUIl^ SALT (quo of Nature’s own .
A-i-V prbduetp),keeps the biobd- purei'and-Is thus of itself one. of
, tlie inostyaluab)e ineans or.kbepibg'the blood free from
, ieybrs andj’blodd, poisons,: liver" complaints, &c.; evek
V discovered^-'As;'a means bf ]ire^serving'', and restoring
- • healffi. it is unefjfijiufed ;, and it is,'moreover, ;a 'pfeasSnt,
- , refreshing andAnVigpratfirg-beverage.. After a patient
- ./ and. carefiilfo'bServatibn ’pf fts'bffScts when used, I have
> - - mo Hesitationfifistating that if .its great value in keeping .
. ' the. bbdy»hpalthyi Were':'uhiyersally known, npt ahouse-
~ hold in the..'land ' would be without ’ itf nok af single
< travelling trunk or -porttnanteau but would cbntaitt it.—
'vtUt J. C.'Eso.. .
’ 'E' NO’S FRUIT SALT,—“ -l am very much pleasqd '
J3J > wlthwoiir I-RUIT SALT/ I-haye fully proved its great .'
efffca'cy.By*ite'h'aYing..entirelycured'm|,bf iiidigestion.”— ;
, T. WobD. Jifti’.y Tfidoriroad; Canterbury.
Tt/rsGRTliYi’ .OF NGT1CE.—PALPITATIGN dOF f
i t THE HE-ART, caused .by.Liver D.ei'angement and-Indiges-';;
tion, frequently called'(oKtnistaken, for.) HeartDisease
“ OnAprilnr, purchased abottlebf youi'ERUITSALT,'
not feelingwery Wbll atthe time; and.itihad an effect that
Ijiever anticipated wher!, I hbugbtit., I had suffered more a
,. ,. brlessfsinee j;he;yearl841,,frorif;palfiitation or,the,hpart,.-i
Dutvery'badly during the Ipst fewyrars'.j -Thefieast thing ;
‘ ..would prodfice'it during the day, arid at night my sleep I
was very much disturbed, > Strange to say, aftar the first >
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous,: annoying, and
. • truly, disagreeable- symptoms,, of palpitation aufideiily ‘
, .^.ceased; anddiave mot since retuimed.Qiitbf^gratitud'erfor >
. , tbe -begsfitwhicla-I.hayerejcblved, I havq'recQmmended it
' ‘tq all my.fflenal, both lirLondon and Yarfnouth.'/'At'the i;
" yarhteiinie,:-I'feel>it' ac-duty':to state-the Fbbve' facf§, of -i
whieh^youicaiimake Whatever use'yon please —,I: am,. :
i ■ dear sir, youfsirespeetfuliy,: .. .“ W. B; Beokett,’’ v ';
Augi 80,' 1877.—10; York-Sqfiare, Commerciai-road,i Lpoidon, E, ( i
GAUTIGN/—Examine- each' Bottle and see the
'Capsuleis"Vnarked i‘ ENO’S -FRUIT,SALT.,’!'‘ Withaut it
:yon have beefi-jmfioked ’o'n'by, a worthless imitation.; TRADE
JIARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit^Saline^ or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists, a Price_2s; 9d. amd 4s. Qd. , '
Sole Ayentfor, Paris-PHARJdACIE' DE BERAL. 14, RUE- DE
LA PAIX.
. : Just Published, -
Price Seven Shillings and-Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richiyjgilt,
THE ;>LAZY vL AY'S-
' AND PR 0'S E I M A G I N I N G S;v S
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An.Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of. Poetical and Prose
’•Writings, Gravfi and'Gay, -
The gilt device on the cover 'designed: by Florence .Claxton and the.
- kJk .Author. - . ’ - v ,
. * ' ■ " * ’ Contents.
Part I.—Miscellaneous 'Poems, and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author,—2.:,The Song-of. the Nowspaper
Editor.*-3. The Song, of the.'Pa-wnbroker;—4.jTheiGastle.—5. The
Lay Of' the Fat ,Man'—6. The vF6etry' of Science.^-f.;H6w Hadji
'A1 •Shacabac waff1 Photographed. ■' (A letter from IHadji A1 iShacabac,
a 'gentlem’an'whowisited London-on business connected with a
Turkish Loan? to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief-of‘the Col-'
- lege ,o.f Howling Derrishes^at :Constantinoptte.)7-8j:,The Lay of .the ,
Broad-Brimmed -Hat.—9, -St. -Bride’arBay,—10’. :-The r Lay * of .’the.,
JMarketj.Garqefier.v^ll. “ Fast Falls the Eventider.’rvi2.Lp,ui^Raven.
,—ISf Materialistic Religion.^13. The. Lay of;the Photographer.—
14. How to Double' the'-Utility of the Printing/Press.—16. The
•Songqftlie Moiflier in-Law.—"16. ” IFif6ea-6eiiiegeirafir.-TlJ'.‘: !‘PoorDld 1
Joe!”—18.-The‘Human Hive.—19. Thfe Layiof the Mace-Bearers —
>20. A Love: Song.—21;-A Vision.—22. b Under the Limes.”—23/The ;
•Angel'of Silence.
/Part i.—PUe Wohb^jaw Ballads,-by Anthony JT'pbblejaws. ... 1
. 24. : The Public Analyst, t-25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke-
,stone.—26. TheiRifle .CQros.—2L-Tony’s Lamenj;.—28.. The July :
Bug.—29. The . Converted Carman.,
Opinions op the Press. / ; \ |
From The Morning Post."'
. The :Morrtihg Post, which strongly recommends the hook in a
reyiew-neaHy a- column long, says :fr“ Comio.'literature which i
honestly deserves the. epithet, seems to'be"'rapidly becoming a
tiling of the past; * consequently aiiy.Writer.whO, like Mr.-Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein ofhumouv, deserves-the praise of all who
are not too (stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. NOt that his muse
.restricts herself only to sqch lighter iittei'apcqs ; on ifie contrary,
some of hls/ppems Much on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of bur common hiimanity,... The un'fprtuDhteHadji's narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians pf Whitechapel is quite
onejiftheJuiiniest thin’gs,.that has beenpublishbdlfor yfears: ....
Tlie’bbok co'tftaifis quite enough'to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful afipearance will not detract.” The Morning
Fosf says Oi Thk Wobble]art) ffaffads“ No one'can help laughing
at them/’ anditsays that the rhymes,ate pitched in “ spmpjhmg
like the saffie key ’’: The' £ons,Gq.iiitier Ptalldds ox The Piglow
Papers, ‘/ with an appreciably successful result,^ ,,
-•(From The Court Journal. . >. . ■ /
e •“ All'are of marked: ability:*. .’’.’Occasionally we'find verse of
great beauty, showing that the aiathor possesses the pure poetic
■gift.’’ ■■ M 3 ' ■: | •• i ri ' k ..
^ , • - From The Graphic.
* “ Those whb can appreciate genuine/unforced humour .should,
not fail to read TVie Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. .Written,
.printed,.published and reviewed.by William H/Harfisbu (88, Great
Russell-street). . Both the verses and’ the short essays are,really "
funny, arid in sbme'tJf the7 latter there is a veiri bf-geriial satire
which adds piquancyto.tbe fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor 1
Is capital/if rather severe, and so- is The Lay of the Macebearers;
hut one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s; account of how he
w;ent-to be photographed.” . .
From Public Opinion, ;
. “A volume of remarkably good; verse... $ Some.of the metrical
iegehds remind „us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
mbetirigs of the Cannibal Club; softie ten or/fifteenyears ago. Mr.
■ Harrison, lioweVef, knows wfiiero' to planrhis'.fun, and an accu¬
rate scientifle miridlikefiiis can make;jqke|: with.''sacce.ss.,-. ,/To
all Who. wish, to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as ’ a:
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
, • , . .From The Bookseller,
■ pi An odd buf-mpst entertaining assortment Ujf quaint and
humorous, faneies/some in verse and others iri- prose, and all'
•written with;,a ;ffuen.t and not urigraepful p,en.. .The vein : of
humour, whichffierineates thetoi is genuine, rich, and original, and
not'at all ill-natured.”" •
— . .* — • From iYafwre. * ,
. “ Scjeiitiflp men and.njatters are in one or two cases alluded to,
andythe"imprint hears that the work,is published ‘A.i).:'T877 .
(popularehronology); a.m-. 6877 (Torqriemada) ;,a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxleyj.’- We'-believe that tour readers may derive a little ■
. amuseriientfrom a pjgfu^ftl of the volume.” ...,
.. From 2%e. British Journql of Photography. .
“ Thfi Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, Some- of which
are in Verse and 'others iri pfidse, some Scientifle,?7Others so'ciai,'but" ■
all of them excellent.-’. . /The Lazy ■Lays-wSV make excellent and
amusing reading,for an occasional spare half-hour... / They con¬
tain'no thing unreffned or in-bad taste.”1
Prom The Dublib'University Magazine'. . : .
“.How Hadji A1 Shacabacpan amiable Turk;-was photograjihed/ <
is well ddhe.. .. Bound in, a cpyer of soiriewhat powerful design.” ■
Pxom The Photographic Neml
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar, in
Connection With "photographic and other scientific literature, has :
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humdrous-anopd/with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed/’.
.From The JScqtsman, . • hh ■
In Mr. W/ H. Harrison’s Lazy .Lays 1 and Prose Imaginings
there is a-’good.deal of broad humour arid satiric power, with a due i
Icmndatiomof sblid/seriSe.”. , , -
. ■ . -Pxoxsx TheBradJord Daily Chronicle.., « ';
- “ Gpod.poetical diction IS displayed. .Mr. Harrison has produced j
&. iriost weloome book.. ,‘.’How- Hadji al Shacabac: Was Fhdto- {
graphed,’ whl be sore to make every reader roar with laughter.” 1
Pxom The Dund4e Ddily Advertiser-. : j
With such/a free and*easy author it is naturally to be expected £
.tthatiliis,Subjects should hear soriie trace of .this peculiar idiosyri- :
gg|g§Kl and. indeed they are as-free- and.easy'as lUmself. -:/./The i
'.poems arqall characterised by-smoothness and-rhy thmical Swing,
f f /-Tlfewbrk is« Very elaborately bound iri cloth aiadfgilt... *. A
gorgeou’i design-upon-thb cover.... If our readers wish .'to eri-
cofirage laziness they have almost deserving Object iri-a very
: cle'ver arid versatile meirihcr of the order/!
>.. , i . ..-From The Liverpool Daily Courier,
“In his handSomely bbund aiid griffin-girarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
Wiiliam-H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear-
ancq and-entertaining in fits contents.... Tile aptlior is iriibu'ed
with the true spirit "of humour, arid amuses all while offending
none/1* . .> / . . . ;. .. - .
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A vblume frPm the-versatile peri of Mr.’ W. H. HarHson,;.;a
well-known eontributor to the-London and provincial-press, and
editor'.of,. The ySpirdtuaiist.. /Many of the humoaous poems re-
mind us of the Ing'Oldsby Legends. The Lav of the Photographer
•The Lay of .{Ap Macebeav.ersj'tiaA some of The" Wobblejdio Bultttds
would hot have bCen-uriworthy of Rariiam himself. Some'df the
•shorter, poems are exquisite,1 arid there pervade the whole a reli-
.gipus-sentiment and poetic feelirig Which will make them accept-;
able to most readers. >
From the daily NorihSerh.Whig (Belfast).
; !‘The. firiest.thijig in the book is How Hadji Al Shacahac was
.Photographed-’ /It,is an admirable addition to our notttoo; ex-
.terisiVe^cpmiC'literatufe, The stpry is; one of Which:extra_cts
would not give: an-radequate ideaacit is intensely humorous/...
.Those who wish to.obtain,a.handsome -gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
. .Ik . - ' , Pxom ,The Bristol Daily Post. ,
“ A puriouS.coHectipn of verses and-prose,essays of unequal
merifr.. r The sPilotis and sentimental verses helorig to the type
- of Mrs.*'Homans-s PrvL/E/Jj.’s productions.” -
- Px,om The Kensington Ne\ns. '
It i£“ after:the Tnqimer/>f Rat-ham,.Hood, Mark Twain, or any
.of those.merry soqls whS’dp quite as much good in their hay arid
- gepefatipri as the duthprs.' of the/mokt/sefious works. TheKdifs
; are /always7 original,tkometimies ’ serious, generally comic, * but
never vtilgar./ ^
< ... i . s PtpxKtTheMalvern.Nepos.
• , “It.,is in itself a work of itself—original, .^.and a.cast of its
autliorWinihd.v It.is.-awofk'of (great .power .and beauty; full of
:liYely4magiifings and bold zoiatspoketj . thoughts, abounding; iri
teriderness.and pathos t/sparkling with wit arid huiriour; and dii’e
that may'bcfeadiuany tiisi'es over.. /The get-up'of the book is
-yeryhandsoihe.”'
... , . JiPxota The Folkestone I^ews. ,
A-number/of'.'clever.skitejies/.arid poems, ■ amorig .the latter
being a'-series, of pappVs- entatiftdaTfteZ Wbbolejaw 'Bduaqsi Which
appeared7 in /the/columns "Of ^tnis"ip&perVa - shi(>rt'''tiffie'’*'ago,
"anI”'Whichi creafed'-such -a yfMrope , at/the titne.’!l [jtfkBL&n
■'irtue member of the Tobin Council, officially cglltdithe atiPhiWw of
' the MdyoFarid'Cbfpordtion^of'Mol/te'stohe id the burlesques vffithe
“*WobbleJa/w:Bdllads"« but? ihefnernber&asseffibl^ilqvffiipffiatvihe
matter,[arid proceeded tb th&riext bilsiriess? The Mayor saitPthdBne
'did not^mind them'A ySt^-fiOritaifi^ soriae'iVCry’chplee-ptie'ms
apd prose essays,'isfitpund in elotlrfirfily gilt', and has an original
fdesign’of no ordinary merit'ori the cover.’’ « >
Obtairiabie;'.price'js.„6d.; post/freel/at the Publishing Office, of
IV. H/IIahrison, 38, Great. Russeii-'street,VL6ndori,/W.C,
MESMERISM AND, ITS PHENOMENA,;
or ' : -
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, ]
By the late Wm. Gregory, .M.D., F.R.S.E.;'Pfp/essor of
Cherriistry at Edinburgh 'University, ' •
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to Tils ‘d-raoe--
- /the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly reyisedvand abridged /edition, for
7 Its quality, and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in-connection with Spiritualism.' •
Just published, price 5s., of 5s. 6d. post free; or five copips
post free',fqr.21s. Copies may also be had bound’in half
calf, witti marblM edges,'price 8s; Fd/per volume, post free.
IP' . . G ON T ENT S.> ./J' f;*7’/-/
( CHATTER, IFirst Effects Prodfic'ed by Mesmefisri?—Sensations
—Process /for ' Gqusing Mesriidric - Steep — The Sleep * or .Mesmelfc
State—It'QcpriUi Spontaneously imSLeefi-HWlkers—Pheriomensfi'of
/the Sleep—Divided Odrisciorisness-/-Serise3'Aff'ected—Insensibility-to -
Pain.”
/ " CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by thq^Orieratqr oyer the Sub-
jecttiri/Vririous Ways-f-Striking- Expression of Feelings in the Look
. and, GesjtfifeWEfRct of Mukic-rTrlithfulness of the. Sleeper—Various
. Hefereep qL'Suscejitihility—Sleep ‘Oamfed by. Silent .Will; and "at a
/Distance^Att.aaotfoaa TriJyhrds the;Gper4tor*T-Effect in the Waking
Statfe'-of/CoirimaridB'GiYen lh the Sleep.
/ .OHAPTERTIIa .-f'SyfnpatUy — Corrircmnity of; Sensations; of
; EmotiPris — Dariger .of Rash Experimeiits-LPublic Exhibitions of
/Doubt^liA^yhfttagfi‘--.Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
;’Readirig-4Soufces' of Error—Medical Intuition—Syriipathetic Wam-
ings—Syiripatliies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
GpAPTER.IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
,the/)Eyes-GVikion;of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies.;'at.a
DistanbeL/Sylripathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Abdent Pefsons
—RetrovisioTi—Introvision.
’ .CHAPTERW.:—LucidiPfevigipn—Duration./of Stegp .etc., /Pre-
Jdictedi—Preaidtion.oj ChMiges in'the Health or State of the SCer—
Pfe'diCTiftri'o’f AcCidehts, &nd/of SEvents Affecting Others — Sponta-
.neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case/of it—Spontaneous. Itetrovision
laudFrevisioh—PecfiliffritiSsof Speeclriand.of Oorisciousness inMes-
merised Persons-LTrarikference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electropipiqgy, Electro-Psychology
and; Hypnotism/essentially-the same//.plieriohieria of Suggestions in
■the Oonscioris^or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
,—Mr.1 Lewis’s Method and' its ResiiltS—The Impressible Staferr
'Control Exercised-by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Impoftance'of Perseverance—The Sub‘-
ject must bd Studied.' ■
CHAPTER(,VII':—TrMice, Natural and Accidental: Mesmeric—
TranCe Produced, at Will by the Subject's—CoUTownsehd—Fakeers-r
, Extasis-nEktatics itot-all Imposters*=-Luminous Emanatioiis—Extasis
ofteh'Predicted—M. Cahagnfet’s Extatics—Visions of thb Sairitual
World. , ' •
" CHAPTERaVIILfiPhreno^Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of TouchirigtheHead in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy-^Thefe are- Caries in ..which .these Act,
and others iri whiCh-tney do not Act—Hhenoirieha/Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesnaerisiri—^Fascination Airiong
Auinrals.— Instinct—Sympathy .of.* Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded ori It.
CHAPTER IX:—Actibri of Magnets, Ciystals, etc., on the'Human
Frame—Researches Of Reichenbach—Hisudyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or. with the Influence wliich'Gaiises the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic 6r Mesmeric Ligiit—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical; etc.—Treatment of insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, iVitchcraft, etc., /explained by .Mesmerism,
and Traced-to Natural Canges—Apparitions — Sfeoond Sight is
Waking Glairvoyanoe—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force; (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid -Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the .Subiept—Effects of Gdyle—Somriam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thouglit-Reading—Lucid Visibn—/ .
Odylic' Emanations—0.dy.lic. Traces followed .up byJCucid Rubjects—’
{Magic'and Witchcraft—-The Magic Crystal, and:MirroiGete.>TiMu9e
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lircidr!P^Se^tiPjror
the Future. ■ / / . /
CHAPTER XITntaresfi: .oftSdento'
—Due.Limjts of Scientific Cau{ipp—Pra^;icaijH.ftitslr.Cdriditipnri'of 1
.Sucbess- jn Expsriirients-/i.Cause . bf 'Faifure-l.Mesraerisin .a' SeriBus
TMrig—OaritiOns to he StuderifrAlftp^sitiph to be Expeete,d. - • -J ....
CHAPTER/XIL:—'Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or ..
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion''oiriPefsoris in .ah TriipreSRble • jj
State—Mr, Lewis’s- Experiments' With/’and 'Withorif Sti^estionfr-
-Caaeg^i/Dr: Darling’s ;.Exriefiments — Cases -frGqfiiSSofla 'or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produged .by Passes,'" or-by'/Cftricentratioh-LMafor
.Bucjdey’s' Method—.CasesA'IIia Magic'-Crystal Jndiffces Waking/’
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—'Mfisrrierisld Wateri,,
—Egyptian’Magic." '
' CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric” Sleej)—Crises— R
Eight- ou^of Nine J Petaons/Recently Tried by/the Author Thrown
into.Mesrijeric Sleep-^Sleep Produced^vitKout fheRridwledrie pt the. /• /
'SuhjeciA.Guggpsfionan.the gleepT-J/hreno-Mesnierhih/iri/the Sipcp
—Sympathic' Olairvoyance • inHhe, SleeptfCriSesA-Pfefe'eptiori of Time
—Crises j'-SiE J./Franklin ; Major Buckley’s,Case ofTtetrovision/
7 GHAPTER XIV'!—Direct .Ciairvo^andfeioCaSes—Trav’Mlitigs Glair- '
voyance—Cases—r&ingular -Visions of Mr. D.—Betters, of TWo Cleyrg-
inan, with'Cases—Clairvoyaricc'of Alexis—Otftrir Oases.
CHAPTER XV :—Tfrince—Extasis — .Crises WSiioritaheous Mes/
meric Phenomena—Appriritions—Predictions.” * ' " , ' *
CHAPTER XVICurative Ageficy of Mesmerism—Ooriclvfding
Remarks, and.-Srfmmary.
L’dndon-;.' W; H. Harrison, ,38,- Great-EusseR-street^ W.O;' -
Printed': tor,rthe Propraetor by' Bbveridgh & ,Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Eullwftod’s Rents, High Holborn,
. iri the*-Parish of St/Andrew,-above-Bar arid’-St’ Ge'orge
the- Martyr, Loridhn. and publishdfi‘by U. Wi, AffLEN,. Ave
Maria-lane,'Londoif, E.O, • • " ‘! ~ ' .*" : -’
