Jinn)hi if i KiVi'fPiPER,
J0t)5{XST< pM ©XTCSO^OCildS]^ iS'dlXX^X.
; itttaspapr rxmmd^b- bHIj S^mfualtsm m feat §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regulariy on Sale at the following places :—LONDON: n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des .Capucin*s, and 7,/Riie>de. Lille. LEIPZIG id, iLindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLEB-i British heading .Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : JosefstaadtErZhf.^rzog’as, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second^Stfeet & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religiq-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS.'U.S.: 225, Unjon-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street, I 1 - ' *   
No.1257. —(Vol/XI.—No. 4.)
LONDON: FRIDAY, JULY 27, 1877.
arontentsi.
Phrens-Mesmerism. By Captain John James ...
Jtemindei;s of Death  ...
TKeview:—England and Islam on the Counsel of Caia-
I 1 By Edward Maitland   ... 40
Poetry:-r-No Dream..'; ... ...      41
&rmde .W"i’th Mr. Forster.   41
Religious Eras Compared  41
Slate-Writing -under Test Conditions. By Hensleigh Wedg-
t<n?Q6d,-JS(£R.I.;12.-.'.. ...   ... ... '  42
VisitrOf the Baron and Baroness yon Vay to England ... ... 42
Form Mapifesfatipn^..^'... a.r,»... ...   4?
<Stor?t(:eSf'With IJessrs.-FieJoher and ^Williams. - By W. R.
Tonilinspn... ...^-..I''«... ,•••>■*• ••• ... 43
C6vresp5pdehc§A ^thi Author.on;the .JD,nseen')Wor^(^~
— Linteebetiween' Spiritualism, Mesmerism,- arid Phrenology
• - -Rarallin f^IoiMds -o'f Spirit .‘Hwids, Wo-flh4T,?®wice3T' in *
. ,M^iverri-T^he Rosicruciari Ilyninr-How Much,Truth is*
r there i^ Astrology ?—An Apparition *'... rT... ....i,;.T. ... 44
Paragraphs:—Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage,^ f Reception at
Mr. William Tebb’s, 42 j Spiritualisrii" in California,'48 ;.
^ Brighton ... ... ... ... ... ... ... *... MV 48
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER :L
'A 'Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics x of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICJS TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rriHE SPIRITUALIST,' published weekly, ia tbe
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
TTmted'Kiiigdorn, and is the recognised Organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the Euglish-spe^hing countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential bpdy of readers on the Continent of Europe.
' The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leadiugand
more experiericed Spiritualists,' including many eminent in the ranks
of LItei’ature.vA.rt.v Science jind thet Peerage. - Among those' Who
have> rmWftlieTl-hheir'- names, in connection with their communica-
tioris in Its columns are Mr. C. P.'Variey, O.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor,of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for. the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;\His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the,
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey: Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President 'of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isnam. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church. (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law: Mr- C.. Carter .Blake, Doc, Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. G. Luxmoore: Mr. JolmE. PuAlon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. GeprgeW. Stock,-B.-A...(Oxon); Mr., Jame&Wason ; Mr. N.
Fahyan DaweHerr Christian ReimCrs ; Mri’Wm.'.white (author ot
the “Life qF Swedenborg”); Mr.' J.' M. Gully, M.D.; .the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “Unorthodox'London”! Mr.’S. C.'
Hall.F.S.A.; JMrs.'S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F;R.G.S.;
Mr. H.' D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.List.C.B.: Mr. J). H. Wilson, M-A-.- LLSM. :'Mr, C. Constant r
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kislmg l
bury: Miss A- Blackwell ..(Paris: Mrs. iF.'^ho.wers; Mr.‘J.^N.^T/
Martheze; Mr! .J.' M; Peebles '(Uriited^States): -Mr. ’W.' Eiridesay.
Rl‘chardson;ffiD; (Australia); and many other ladies and:gentlemen. ~
! Annual subsdrijjticftf'to residents in the United Kingdom', l0s.10d.
to the United'States and Australia, 13s., post free.
; The Spifit-umistiS regutfirly on sale at tbefollrivving'places:—
London: 11, Avtf Maria-lane, St.v P^ul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kfosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7,'Rue de
Lille/ Leipzig’: • 2,'Lihderistrasse. Florerioe: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltoriaid. Rome: Signor' Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corse. Naples: Briiisli Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt 'Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gtasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs:. Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston,-U.S. :r ?,-Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago,: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis!' U.S.: .22.5, Uidon-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-§tj;eet.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications ..on Jhe business of The Spirituaiist
should be addressed to,'W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, ’GrSat Russell-stfeet, London, W.C.
F.OR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY,'AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, P.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine) 1
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP •
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to'the skin.
Sold by. Chemists and' Perfulriers' everywhere, and by
Peau's, Dl^Groat Rrissell-street, London.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers fropi 10.30 a.m!, to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains, a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and-occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable onesj^also various.works on historical, speculative,
and scientific . subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
'■••Ter.mp: One- Guinea a. year includes membership, use of
reading room and .library, and two books from the lending
library$rid drititjes' all other: members' of the' same' family
residing in the’same house, and whb,are also, members’of the
Associ(rtidri','’to shark in. the above privileges.,-'Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership' arid one book frottf the' lefidirig
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members'to the-
use of the reading-.rooin arid library,-and'alsb of the' lending
library.. » :'*:!• r •••• t
'('Free seances for inquirers have been instituted •ttirbu'ghtthe
liberility of some,of the members, admission;to'-wfiieta may be
dUtSined-thVbukli hriy member, or bn application to the
secretary. )
Suitabm rooms may be hired on moderate .terms for seances', ,
with cabinet, &c„ arid also for committee ftr other meetings. r
Light refreshments are provided at moderathriliaKges.',. r
Inquirers and foreign* Spirituaiistg visiting'England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms)-, and the secretary,will be
happy to afford them any information in her power. -
-'Communications-should be a'ddres'sed to Ahe'reMderif secre¬
tary, Misq. Emily Kislhjgbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
arid Post-office orders made payable'at the Great Russell-street
Post-office. ... j
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-eoad-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &e., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
(As exhibited at the Caxton celebration), is a self-inking one
and can easily be worked by a child of ten. Its work will
compare with that done on a £30 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saving you,
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW
TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of printing
materials, specimens Of type, &c., &o., post free 13 stamps.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co., Patentees.
22, Lxverpood Street, London, E.O.
Price from OQs, to <£9 10s.
BIRIPECK BANE.— Established 1851.—
* 29 iSr 30, Squthamptbn-buildings, Chancery-lane, W;0,
DEPOSITS^Veceived at-INTEREST for stated periods or re-
payable’on demand. 'On5Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on th6 minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
’The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the _ Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advance^ made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may bo had on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHAN A G E.
« SOCIABLE EVENINGS.
Every Monday Evening throughout the year, at 8. p.m., at,the
Langham Hall, Great Portland-street, for the benefit Of Mrs.
Weldon’s. Orphanage. The first Concert took place on Monday
evening, November 6, 1876... /
Stalls"(a;.limited' number), 5s.'each f centre seats, area (a
limited nuiriber), 2s. 6d. each. Admission, Is. ’Transferable
tickets, for a series of three months: stalls, £2 2s.; centre
seats, area, £1 Is, ; unreserved seats, 10s. Gd. Mrs. Weldon
earnestly*solicits1 subscriptions, donations; or'old clothes
towards the increase of her Orphanage, which she started
eight years ago, and which has,.till now, been supported
entirely by herself. Mrs. Weldon has been obliged, for want
of a larger income, to'refuse as many as five forsaken children
in one week. " Tickets may be obtained, and subscriptions,
donations, &c., received by Mrs. WedDON, Tavistock HOUSG
Tavlstock-square, London, W.C.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
established 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President.
HENRY D. JENOKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
{BarHster-at-Law, Itemizes' of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of .
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blytori, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—53, Sigdon Road, Dalston Lane, Dalston,
• London, E.- ■
(Close, to Hackney Downs Station, Great Eastern Railway,
and five minutes’ walk of Haokuey Station, North London
'Railway.
The objects .of -this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
5 by.various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism..
Ordinhry experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
^evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening In each month is
' devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus-
c sions,^rea'dingof>papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition' to the weekly meetings and seances, Members of the
Afiipciitjon. JiaveHhe privilege of attending, the public seances ot
• several' well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fe$s, particulars, of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-slocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines aro
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven:
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. Gd.; ior seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
J WILLIAM FLETCHER, THE
• AMERICAN ^SPEAKER, WILL GIVE HIS LEC¬
TURE, “A Half Hour from Alexandria to Jerusalem,” at
Langham Hall, August 6th, in connection with Mrs. Weldon’s
regular’Concert. ■   -  ^
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights undone of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of. the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at .Separate. Tables,, every evening i£ the
Grand'Salon, the Prince's Salou,'and'the Duke’s Saloru
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries; joints^
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
HATCHARD’S DUPLEX FUNERAL CARS
(Used open or closed), Silver-mounted, Violet or Oak Panels,
Plated Harness, &c.
Inventors, Patentees and Builders,
S. HATOHARD & 00.,
FUNERAL FU&NIs'flEllS,
Chief Office.:— '
47, CRAWFORD ST., BRYANSTON^Q., W.»*#
Funerals conducted in accordance with the views of Spirit¬
ualists. | Coloured Palls supplied. Personal attendance at any
address on receipt of letter or telegram.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-read, Cardiff, Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 27, 1877,
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS*
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander CalderjEsq.,l)Herefoi-d-square1"VYestBrompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Tipper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-sqhare, W.
Hi'nywood, Mrs., 82, Warwiok-square, S-W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-bUild-
iftgs, E.C. , :i)
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place. W.
Ilogers, E. D., KOse-vlila, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Smith, Martin It., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, SoUth Hampstead, ET.W.
Wyld, Geo», M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derbj’ House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 189, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K, 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, A., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louls-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Bemers-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Relmers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, RedclifEe-gardens, West Brompton,
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensieigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
Wldte, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
squarep-West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
J. H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan deRassim Pacha aBahdjC Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
. U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, MTelboume, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphla,U.S.A.
J. II. GledstaneS; Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompterre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. AnthOlme Fritz* President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. JaCoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test* Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co.,, New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
S. L. O Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W;
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Hu,et, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary,
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-str'eet, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 84, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Porttecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratll, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritlsta Espanola. Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid, Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad.'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana, President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
GRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
will be published as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolnor, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE RELIGION OF JESUS compared with
THE CHRISTIANITY OF TO-DAY. By Frederick
A. Binnby.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. IIL By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet, displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address C.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.C.
NNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.   
PADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be
obtained speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7.30. 
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Bsal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. Janjes’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
MR. a E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday bvenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TRANCE MEDIUM,
14, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, W.0.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE- SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctually. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry's-road,-N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E. ,  
IV/rDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
-LtJL At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Speaker,
• will deliver Orations and Poems to public or
private audiences in any part of the United Kingdom. For all
particulars address to him at Eagle House, 14, Sill wood-road
Brighton.
TL. HENLY, Mesmerist, 5, St. James’s-
• terrace, Notting-hill. “ Your treatment of insanity is
excellent.”—George Wyld, M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place,
Hyde-park, to whom reference is permitted.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &o. Address, “Spiritualist,” 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo .
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price Gd., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Just published, price 4d.
Clairvoyance, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300for Is., post free, or 500for Is. Gd., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOE DISTBIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age."
The food that we live on. in¬
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
■ Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre AkSAKOF, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
eJ/is
m xA fl|| xi jp nub tl
V0JL,U]VIE fJj.EVEj^, N!uMBER PoUI\.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 27th, 1877.
PHRENQ-MESMERISM.
BT CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES.
Perhaps, of all the mesmeric phenomena, the most gene¬
rally interesting to witness are those elicited in what is called
Phreno-mesmerism, i.e., th6 power of the mesmeriser to
excite the different phrenological organs of the sensitive.
The experiments, when successful, go far to prove the
truth of Phrenology, as well as the abnormal state of the
patient.
An uneducated man, for instance, may, for the first time
in his life, be thrown into the mesmeric sleep-waking state,
and the operator, by touching, and sometimes even by
merely pointing at, the organ, say, of u Benevolence,” may
cause the sensitive to exhibit marked signs of that particular
sentiment, so that he may appear to fancy or dream that he
sees before him some pitiable object, which at once awakens
his interest and compassion. If u Combativeness” be touched,
he will immediately show symptoms of anger, fancy he is
quarrelling with some one, evince a desire to fight, and may
even strike his mesmeriser; fan or blow over tbe excited
organ, or touch il Benevolence,” and his anger immediately
subsides. Should u Combativeness ” and{e Destructiveness ”
be very small, the excitement of these organs will often lead
him to imagine that some one is trying to quarrel with him,
neither the expression of his countenance nor his actions
betraying any feeling of anger.
On the organ of “ Veneration ” being touched, the sensi¬
tive will clasp his hands together, and kneel down in the
attitude of prayer, the expression of devotion on his counte¬
nance, so beautifully depicted, that the observer is forced
to acknowledge that the patient is either in an abnormal
state, or that he is one of the finest actors he has ever seen.
If a Veneration ” and u Tune ” be touched at the same time
the sensitive will probably sing a hymn ; touch “ Mirthful¬
ness” and “Tune” only, you may have a comic song.
Touch “ Philoprogenitiveness ” and the sleeper will probably
imagine he is caressing a child ; touch “ Combativeness ” at
the same time, and he will appear as if clasping the child
with one arm, and with the other he will strike out as if
defending the little one from injury. Take away the finger
from “ Philoprogenitiveness ” and he will probably act as if
he were dashing the supposed child to the ground. And so
on with many of the organs, the manifestations being some¬
times faint, and sometimes strong, according to the different
idiosyncrasies of the patients ; with some, only a few of the
organs act; with others the experiments completely fail.
The most interesting results in these experiments take
place when two or more of the organs are simultaneously
excited, when you will probably observe such beautiful com¬
binations of graceful attitudes and facial expression, as
would be well worthy the observation and study of a first-
rate actor.
That these experiments tend to prove the- truth of
Phrenology is almost certain, but after many experiments on
different sensitives, I am led to believe that in some cases
the excitement of the different faculties, sentiments and pro¬
pensities, may be attributed to the power of the mesmeriser’s
Will, which so often plays a part in the production of many
other mesmeric phenomena. And here I may observe, that
when I use the word “ Will ” I have in my mind, the often
proved subjection of a sensitive to the thoughts or minds of
those en rapport with him, so that he then unconsciously obeys
the will or wishes of his mesmeriser; or it may be that the
mesmeriser’s thoughts produce in the sensitive a state of
suggestive dreaming, which leads him to carry out in
pantomime the unuttered suggestions of his mesmeriser.
I once had a patient whose phrenological organs would at
once respond when I merely pointed at them; and so in-
I! stantaneous and so marked were the effects that at last I
| began to suspect my constant success. It occurred to me
| that it was very remarkable that I never made a mistake as
| to the exact locality of an organ, although at that time quite
I a novice in the study of phrenology—a plaster of Paris head,
j marked with the names of the different faculties, being my
| principal guide.
These suspicions led me to try the following experiment,
| which was carried out with the assistance of a friend in-
| terested in the subject. We agreed that my coadjutor should
.j mark down on a piece of paper a list of the principal organs,
I and that he should first indicate the name of an organ for
j me to point at, and then another organ for me to excite by
| the will. In this case the sensitive was not only ignorant of
| phrenology, but her eyes were always bandaged. After I
| had placed the patient in the sleep-waking state, my friend,
| by signs, desired me to point at “ Benevolence” and to will
j “ Oombativeness.” I did so, and immediately strong signs
of anger and repulsion were exhibited, and so on with several
other organs, my will proving more powerful than the point¬
ing with my finger.
Great, however, would have been my mistake had I
hastily concluded from these experiments that all the mani¬
festations in phreno-mesmerism are due to thought-reading
or will-power. ‘ i
Numerous experiments of my own, and of others to whom
I related the above case, particularly some very interesting
facts communicated to me by Mr. Yernon, the editor of The
Peopled Phrenological Journal, most satisfactorily proved
that the organs can be excited in cases where it appears im¬
possible that the will can have anything to do with the results.
It appears to me that both hypotheses may be true; the
power of the will on some occasions, and the power of exciting
the organs without any exertion of the will in others, in the
| same way that in clairvoyance, though mind-reading
| frequently plays a part, it also frequently has nothing to do
| with the production of the phenomena.
Here occurs to me the recollection of a rather curious expe-
| riment tried on one of my own sensitives. One day I was
| mesmerising one of my servants, a country girl, who, I need
j scarcely say, had never studied phrenology. A lady was seated
| next to her, and I touched the sensitive’s head on the right
| side, on the spot marked by phrenological writers as the organ
of Adhesiveness. The girl immediately clasped the lady’s
hand, and showed by signs very strong attachment to her.
! I then touched with the fore-finger of my other hand the
| organ of Combativeness on the left side of her head, without
I withdrawing my finger from the organ of Adhesiveness, and
| the results were very remarkable. The sensitive, still hold-
| ing the lady’s hand in her own right hand, struck out
I violently with her left hand; at the same time the right
side of her face wore a most amiable expression, whilst the
left side was distorted with anger. Any one who has seen
the picture of David Garrick standing between tragedy and
comedy, may imagine the effect produced in this case,
where each side of the face exhibited the play of a different
passion.
Perhaps, according to the law of reflex action, the sensi¬
tive ought to have struck out with her right hand, and the
other manifestations to have been reversed, but the girl
was no physiologist. When the famous case of the ampu¬
tation of a leg at Wellow, during the mesmeric sleep, was
read at the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London,
Dr. Marshall Hall considered the case to be one of imposture,
because the poor man’s sound leg did not start or contract
when the diseased one was cut, i.e., did not * ‘ enact the reflex
motion.” Unfortunately for the interests of science, Dr,
Marshall Hall had neglected to inform himself by repeated
experiments, as to whether a human being during the
38
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 27, 1877.
mesmeric sleep, and a horse struck on the head with a j j
pole-axe, are in precisely the same condition. j |
The same patient of mine, on another occasion, had the | !
organ of Imitation touched. A lady en rapport with her j j
then spoke a long sentence in German, which the girl re- | i
peated without making a mistake, and, I was assured by the j j
lady, with good pronunciation. Dr. Braid, in his work on j ft
Hypnotism, mentions that two of his patients, country girls, | j
on the organ of “ Imitation ” being touched, spoke five I |
languages correctly. I presume it is meant that they re- j j
peated the words after hearing some-one recite them; but j I
that was an extraordinary feat, as any one may judge by j j
trying the experiment even on an educated person wide j j
awake, provided he be not a good linguist. j j
I was once asked to mesmerise the servant of a friend, j j
for the purpose of rendering her insensible to pain, previous | !
to having a double tooth extracted during the sleep. I sue- | j
ceeded in producing the desired effect, and the operation | |
was performed. On the instrument being placed in her | j
mouth, as soon as the cold metal touched her gums, there j j
was a slight quiver of one of the muscles of the face, but I |
. when the wrench was made and during the extraction of the j |
■ tooth, the patient showed no more signs of feeling than if j j
she had been a stone. This was a beautiful case of Phreno- 1 j
mesmerism, one of the best I ever met with, most of | |
the organs responding in the most satisfactory manner. I j
The patient during her sleep, after the phrenological j 1
organs had been excited, always imagined that I was her j
fellow-servant, who happened to be an elderly negro from | j
Jamaica, and as the seances always took place in the presence fj|
of her mistress and another member of the family, I was j j
obliged to be constantly on the watch to prevent the somnilo- j
quist from betraying all the secrets of the pantry and ! j
kitchen. j |
During the ordinary mesmeric sleep the patient generally I]
recognises his mesmeriser, but as soon as the organs are ||[
excited a state of dreaming ensues, and then he will often jj
take his mesmeriser for some other person, perhaps for some I
intimate friend, and by a few suggestive words he maybe j
led to fancy that he is conversing with any particular in- j
dividual the mesmeriser may suggest. |
Of course the most decided and convincing cases as j
evidence of the truth of phrenology are those where the | |
mesmeriser himself—as well as his patient—has no know- | j
ledge of even the localities of the several organs. In such j I j
circumstances, should the mesmeriser, for instance, touch lj|
the organ of Cautiousness, and the sensitive immediately |jj
exhibit strong symptoms of terror, we may be pretty j !
certain that the result is quite independent of will or of | I
mind-reading. j |
An experienced mesmeriser and phrenologist wrote to me | |
many years ago, as follows, by way of proving that the will | !
did not act in his experiments:— j |
'•'I send you something new. Get some one to entrance your j(j
patient; you then excite the organs of the mesmeriser, and you will get j (i
the usual effects exhibited in double force by the sensitive, the mes- j 11
meriser holding his hand. Or, mesmerise the patient yourself, form a ] j j
chain of a dozen or more persons ; you hold the patient’s hand and I j |
turn your back upon the last person of the chain ; let any one touch |) j
the organs of the last person and the same results will follow. Where j (j
is the will here ? ” I > |
This experiment, however, in my opinion, is not quite con- j
elusive, for if the person manifesting the phrenological organs |
of the last person, be able to transmit any influence at all )
through a chain of twelve persons, why should not his will
be thus transmitted ?
Mr. Braid, a surgeon practising at Manchester, many
years ago wrote a work on Hypnotism or Nervous Sleep, in
which he narrates a case of Phreno-mesmerism, so extremely j
curious and interesting that I venture to insert it in the pre- j
sent paper. | Mr. Braid says:—
“ I was informed that a child, five years and a half old, who had j
been present when I exhibited some experiments, the same evening j |
had proposed to operate on her nurse. The nurse had no objection to |( |
indulge the child,never suspecting any efiect could take place. How- j)i
ever, it appeared she speedily closed her eyes, when the child, i) j
imitating what she had seen me do, placed a finger on her forehead, |( j
and asked what she would like, when the patient answered, ‘ To dance5; I > I
on trying another point, the answer was, ‘ To sing,’ and the two had a |) |
song together ; after which the juvenile experimenter roused the patient j (!
in the same manner she had seen me do, * ‘ ‘
“ The above circumstances being related to me, I felt curious to
ascertain whether there might not be some mistake, as there had been
no third party present, and I depended entirely on the statement of the
child, which induced me, when visiting the family next day, to re¬
quest permission to test the patient. This was readily granted, and, to
my astonishment, she manifested the phenomena in a degree far be¬
yond any case I had tried; indeed she did so with a degree of per¬
fection which baffles description.
e< However frequently she was tried, the same expression of counte¬
nance, the same condition of the respiration, and similar postures of
the body have been evinced when the same points were touched.
“ Indeed, so highly susceptible was she that after a few trials, when
I pointed a finger or glass rod over the part, without contact, similar
manifestations resulted.”
This case of Mr. Braid’s is of double interest; first of all,
as proving that even a young child can mesmerise, and,
secondly, that a child can excite the phrenological organs—
perhaps one of the best proofs we can have of the truth of
phrenology.
It is not to be supposed, however, that good cases of
Phreno-mesmerism are by any means common; some mes-
merisers are more fortunate than others in finding patients
who exhibit the higher phenomena; the great majority only
succeed in producing the sleep.
During the state induced by Mr. Braid’s process, and
which he calls the i{ Hypnotic state,” it would appear that
the phrenological organs are more sensitive than they are
during the mesmeric sleep, which would account for his
remarkable success. In all my practice, extending over
several years, I have only had two cases of clairvoyance and
about half a dozen cases where the phenomena of Phreno-
mesmerism were remarkably distinct.
To do full justice to the subject of Phreno-mesmerism
would require great experience in mesmerism, and a con¬
siderable knowledge of phrenology and physiology. I can
only lay claim to a certain amount of the first requisite,
and will be truly glad if some one more competent for the
task would continue the subject in future columns of Tfie
Spiritualist.
Tottenham, July, 1877.
REMINDERS OF DEATH.
In the second gallery of the Royal Academy for this year
hangs the large and truly great picture of “ An Egyptian
Feast,” painted by Edwin Long, Academician. It is a
rarely beautiful picture, despite the defects found in it by
some hypercritics. It may be that the interest of the
picture is too widely diffused and not sufficiently centred on
any one point or object. It has also been said to be lacking
in imagination; but this accusation is founded on the vulgar
error that imagination can deal only with supermundane
topics, and that therefore a picture of angels—human in
form, but possessing large wings—is a more ideal perform¬
ance than the depiction of human emotions, and than the
careful, studious resuscitation on canvas of an historic event.
Mr. Long’s u Egyptian Feast ” is at once an historic
revival, and also a profound psychologic study. The build¬
ing, with its pillars, its magnificent doorway, and its
mural paintings, the various physiognomies of the various
guests and attendants, and their diverse garments are all
most carefully studied and elaborated. And, in addition to
this, the picture is a poem of Love and Death. The first
glance at it tells us of an ancient Egyptian hall, whose size
is suggested as much by the large circles of the inlaid
marble floor as by the vast number of people seated and
standing around the walls. The centre of the hall has been
occupied by musicians and dancing girls, whose duties are
at this moment arrested for the performance of an important
function of every Egyptian feast. When the banquet was
ended; when merriment began to supersede ceremony;
when wine and sociability began to break through the reserve
of glance and of expression ordinarily maintained between
man and woman; when the life of the senses began to
assert itself with free joyousness; then—and not till then
—did the Priest of Osiris enter, preceding a mummy on its
bier, bare and unflinching in the awful rigidity of death.
Slowly was this reminder of their fate led round the circle
of gay and joyous guests; and, as it came before each, the
priest uttered the words: u Gaze here: and drink and be
merry; for when you die, such will you be ! ” This is the
action of the external life of the picture.
July 27, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
39
But a second glance at it reveals an undercurrent of in¬
terest ancl of life; of love in its various stages; its rosy |
advent, its joyous noon, its pale drear decadence ; and upon j
Love, Death strikes diversely according to love’s diverse con- |
ditions. Lovers, or bridegroom and bride, or happy husband |;
and wife—each couple regards death variously, as they feel |!
variously toward each other. Look at the couple on the |i
extreme right of the spectator: Love in her eyes sits ['
glancing, and he responds with ardent gratification. They |
are so occupied with each other ; so entirely are they all in {|
all just now to each other that death passes by them j1
unregarded. For |!||
“ Who grieve when the bridegroom is with them i ji
Who weeps when the wine-chalice flows 1 H
When the aureole of life shines around us, j!
Who then of death’s cold shadow knows ? j(
When we stand on life’s throne, crown’d and sceptred H
In love’s own most regal attire, !
Can we think of the day when the triumph j
Of life and of love will expire ? ” !
Next to this joyous couple sits, alone, a little maiden to |
whom, as yet, love and death are both mysteries. Wonder j
is the predominant expression on her childish face ; wonder j
crossed with a dim pity. But how can death be sad or be j
joyous to those who know not what love is ? For life is not j
life, till love vivifies it; as life, when love is gone, relapses 1
into mere existence, unless the eternal impersonal love |
supply the place of the mere personal and transitory emotion; !
and then life has already become immortality. This little |
maiden is seated next to the master and mistress of the I
feast, a couple who reveal a lovely phase of human affection, j
To this happy pair the reminder of death comes tenderly. |
Hand clasped fondly in hand, passion ripened into love, and i
even into friendship, they think that death cannot sever the |
tie which has resisted the more powerful attacks of passion, j
of weakness, of faithlessness, and of disappointment.
The third couple represent a less united condition of love. I
The man gazes callously and with folded arms at the mummy; j>
stolid philosophy and critical thought are in Ais eyes, whilst j
she, wholly engrossed in the thought of his love for her, is ||
terrified at death, the separator, and she clings to her one |
beloved, turning from death to love. j
Most startling is the old woman who sits beside her |
aged husband in the angle of the room. Her withered j
cheeks and dingy skin she has tried to adorn with a won- |
drous head-gear of lovely light-hued feathers. She is, I fear, j
a worldly old thing, and death appears to her horribly real I
and near, as it comes to her amid all this youth and j
feasting. j
Next to this poor old lady, whose life-story is well nigh jj
at its last page, sit a young couple who are but beginning !
the oft-told tale. She is young, coy, and timid, frightened j
at the approach of love and its ardent powers. Her lover !
finds in the reminder of death a new argument for urging i
her to relent: “See,” he says, “death will come; let us j
love while we may.” He seems to whisper George Mac- j
donald’s entreaty:— j
u Love me, beloved! for I may lie I
Dead iu tby sight, ‘neath the bright blue sky. j
Love me, beloved! for both must tread ]
On the threshold of Hades, the house of the dead.”
Further on, considerably, sits a “used-up” voluptuary, j
between two girls. He looks bored at that thing coming I
round, and seems indifferent alike to love and death, him- jj
self being more deadly and dead than the mummy itself. j
These are only a few among the numerous figures and j
faces in the picture—a picture which requires a prolonged j
study for its due appreciation. In the Academy Catalogue j
there is a recondite note on this curious Egyptian custom— j
a note which leads the reader to speculate about the views j
of death held by the ancients, and to consider how different j
were their notions to those of the moderns. Death as a j
dread personage seems to have been unthought of by the j
ancients. The words—“ Gaze here: drink and be merry,” I
are like the words of the Hebrew preacher—“ Rejoice, Oh j
young man, in thy youth, and let thy heart cheer thee in jj
the days of thy youth, and walk in the way of thy heart and jj
the sight of thine eyes.” They meant that youth and bodily jj
existence will not continue long; therefore they should be jj
enjoyed while possessed. Youth and vitality are given by ff
ij our Maker; it is our duty, therefore, not to waste them,
j neither by a dreary melancholy nor yet by a reckless career
j of gross living. The Hebrew sage added the words—“ Know
j thou that for all these things God shall bring thee into
j judgment; therefore remove sorrow from thy heart, and
j put away evil from thy flesh.” That is, in other words,
waste not thy god-given youth and its capacities of ehjoy-
j ment in morbid or religious asceticism; so remove sorrow
j from thy heart. And waste not thy youth neither in excesses
in which the beasts would not indulge, but put away evil
from thy jlesh ; for excesses and fleshly evils will bring their
own penalty on thy body, thy intellect, and thy soul. Every
act has its inevitable result, a result often called the judg¬
ment of God.
There is one remarkable thing in this Egyptian ceremony;
it is the only personification of death to be found among the
i ancients. The Greeks had no God of death. Pluto and
| Proserpine presided over Hades, the world of those who had
j gone through the process of death and had crossed the river
! Styx. They had been ferried over by Charon, a lesser deity,
j in subservience to Pluto and the other Gods. iEschyllus,
j the sublime, recognising neither time nor death, makes no
j such dramatis persona as Thanatos. Euripides in the Alkestis
j introduces a personage called, in English translations, Death,
j But in the Aldine edition of 1567 he appears as Charon;
j whilst Sertius (in his notes on Virgil) says that Euripides
j put him in as Mercury. And as Mercury he appears in an
j edition of Euripides, printed in 1471, and in another of 1532.
j But under whatever name, Euripides personifies him as
j slightly as possible and makes Alkestis and Hercules speak
of him as if he were Pluto. Hercules calls him “ The Priest
j of the Dead,’’and Alkestis, talking as she dies, says she—
“ Beholds a boat and him who ferries o’er the dead,
By Charon I am summoned hence.”
In Sophocles there is a short invocation to death, in Ajax’s
| last speech; but the mere personification is unimportant,
j and does not raise Thanatos to any rank like the deification
j attributed to even Aido, Orcus (oath), or Nemesis. Atropos,
j that one of the Destinies who cuts the thread of life, in effect
j performed the duties of Death. And to Iris also is given the
j work of cutting that thread which binds the soul to the body.
Nowhere among ancient literature do we find that dread
I king of terrors who—with scythe and hour-glass, with
! crowned skull and bare jawbones—is the modern idea of
j death. That grim image is the production of the creed
j which professed to reveal life and immortality. It is a
j Catholic mediaeval conception, perhaps a monkish rendering
j and blending of Pluto and of Chronos. Chronos (the Latin
j Saturn or Time) was represented with a scythe’and hour-glass
by the Greeks. The mummy of the Egyptian feast was
decorated as Osiris, the God with whom men entered into
j happy union after death; and so it was to them a reminder
j of immortality; the Greeks supposed that those who had
j entered the nether world, were at once judged by Rhada-
j manthus, and abode in the Stygian fields or in the Isles of
the Blest; but the mediaeval Christian supposed the dead
lay rotting in their graves until the last trump. He deemed
that for them was neither pleasure nor pain any more ; for
them action and happy repose were alike over. Death, the
most powerful of all beings (scarcely excepting Deity itself)
cut short the only career of happiness given to man; for
after the grave he would go to either an eternal fire, or to a
petrified heaven. And so arose that stalking skeleton,
suggesting so many false ideas, which has become the
popular image of death. “ The founder of Christianity,”
wrote Isaac D’Israeli, “everywhere breathes the blessed¬
ness of social feelings. The horrors with which Christianity
was afterwards disguised arose in the corruptions of
Christianity among those insane ascetics, who misinterpret¬
ing the word of life, trampled on nature. The dominion of
mankind fell into the hands of those imperious priests who
ruled by the terrors of the ignorant. Life was darkened by
penances and pilgrimages, alternating with murder and
debauchery; spectres started up amid the midnight vigils ;
the grave yawned, and Death—in the Gothic form of a gaunt
anatomy—paraded the universe. After they had sufficiently
terrified men with this charnel-house figure, a reaction in
public feelings occurred, and death, which had so long
40
fHE SPIRITUALIST.
July 27, 1877.
harassed the imagination, suddenly changed into a theme m
fertile in coarse humour. The Italian love of the beautiful fj
forbad their art to sport with deformity, but the Gothic taste j j
of German artists delighted to give human passions to the j j
hideous physiognomy of a noseless skull; it put an eye of i j
mockery into its hollow sockets and made the shank-bones of ! j
Death dance gaily.” And “The Dance of Death” travelled
through Europe. It even became enacted as a religious j j
ceremony in churchyards. A popular poem on it was com- j j
posed by one Macaber, of which the English Dance of Death j j
(erroneously attributed to Holbein) is an illustration, j i
Groups from this dance were copied as house and as furniture j j
decorations, and at Luzern there still exists a bridge (a j j
covered bridge) on which is painted the Dance of Death. n
It would have been happy for English people if this | |
ludicrous view of it had been allowed to end the gross and J J
materialistic conception of man’s career. But, unfortunately, S
Milton restored to the figure of Death its first awe and j
majesty. Milton, profoundly read in Virgil, ti'ansferred
all Virgil’s classic lore to the Hebrew myths, and changing
Prometheus into Satan, he transformed also Virgil’s Pluto,
Rhadamanthus, and Hades, into Death, Hell, and Judg¬
ment. Milton has made the theology and coloured the
religious imagery of Englishmen for two hundred years now,
and so long as the following lines remain household words, j
neither faet nor philosophy will obliterate the false and I
popular conception of death:—
“ Black it stood as Night,
Fierce as ten Furies, terrible as Hell,
And shook a dreadful dart; what seemed his head
The likeness of a kingly crown had on.”
Yet fact, and philosophy founded on fact, tell us that j
death is not a personage; scarce even an event; naturally j
it is but a process ; a process slow and sure, aye, surer than j
physical birth. The spiritual doctrine, and one incessantly !
reiterated by every spiritualistic teaching, is that death is j
but anj exact repetition, in less material organs, of the j
process of physical birth ; but that there are a multitude of |
deaths ; and that we have to undergo—and we do undergo— j
far more painful deaths while still in the body, than: our i
physical dissolution will be. Aurora Leigh knew this, when
she spoke of the slow death of young souls, so often “ bound j
by social figments, feints, and formalisms, and then crucified j
head downward, on the cross sticks of the world.” Ouida
knew it, too, when she made the soul of Signa to be extin¬
guished and killed by contamination with vice long before
his body departed from its shattered life. And preachers I
know it when they repeat the words “ Fear not him who can !
kill the body, but I say unto you, fear him who can kill both
body and soul.” Fear sin. Thank God, nowadays
preacher, poet, novelist, philanthropist, doctor, and man of |
science, all perceive that sin is a far more hideous and more j
powerful thing than death. It is sin, not death, which stalks j
among us, as Blake saw the sin-plague of Egypt, a livid,
monstrous, green-hued, poison-radiating, spear-darting
power. It is sin, not death, we have to fear as lurking secretly j
to catch the young, and as leading us in the wild “ dance |
Macabre.”
Our popular theology and religious conceptions have not
yet entirely recovered from that low and selfish phase of j
former generations. The idea of man’s future existence was j
formerly one of selfish happiness, so far as petrified existence I
and petrified perfection can be happiness. “ It looked,” as j
Mr. Frederick Harrison says, “ only for the permanence of j
the consciousness which can enjoy itself; whilst the modern |!
and better idea of man’s future existence is permanence of I]
those activities which can give happiness to others.” With h
this opinion the psychologist neither courts nor fears death. |!
He will not address it as “ most beloved, most lovely; ” nor |j
yet as “ dread king of terror,” for he regards it as a natural |i
process, as growth toward a new birth. The pain of the M
process is felt generally long before we are conscious that the |j
process has begun in us ; the sorrow of it lies in separation j j
from those we love; but that sorrow is felt more by those |
who are left than by those who are departing, for death i
brings hopeful consolations to those whom it touches. We j
have all heard of dying people entreating their friends to j
“ let them go,” and not to keep them by their yearning love ; j
but who ever heard of a dying man entreating to be kept in “
the body ; to be kept back, in fact, from dying inj;o life ? It
is true that the new life into which we die is very different
to this life in some respects. For, with the loss of the
external body of matter, will cease those mere physical
functions whose due action gives physical pleasure now.
Therefore “let the young man rejoice in his youth; ” and
let Edwin Long’s happy lovers quaff the wine cup while they
have palates to taste with, and while love gives tone and
flavour to all around. Let love reveal life, that we may
know and enjoy life ; and let the reminder of death come as
the reminder of immortality. G. T. 0. M.
England and Islam on the Counsel oj Caiaphas. By Edward
Maitland. Tinsley, London. 1877.
Another of England’s foremost thinkers (for such the
author of the Pilgrim and the Shrine must be deemed) ap¬
pears to have joined the ranks of the minority who refuse to
bow the knee to Baal! In the book before us he distinctly
states his conviction that “ the spiritual world is real; and
the faculty whereby man holds intercourse with it is a natural
faculty, which fails only through morbid, or at least abnormal
insensibility of the cerebral centres,” Further he says : “ The
source of. all evil in mortal existence is the limitation of the
spiritual vision. The cause of that limitation is unsuitable
diet, physical and mental.”
Mr. Maitland tells his readers that he has only arrived at
| a belief in the phenomena of Spiritualism after first finding
| . that it was possible to form in idea an harmonious and con-
| sistent conception of the spiritual world. He further adds:
| “And just in the degree in which I became convinced
| theoretically, did I receive in confirmation (of the substantial
j truth of the doctrine known as “Spiritualism”) practical
| demonstrations even surpassing in their absolute satisfactori¬
ness any crucial test of which I had been cognisant. And
now that I have no manner of doubt on the subject, and
that my “ spiritual eyes” are Open, I can, in looking back
through my whole life distinctly trace the operation of the
influences of the reality of which I have only so recently
become assured.”
We have not space to review critically in detail the con¬
tents of this remarkable book. To do so would require
another volume. But its author is always suggestive, and
never common-place. If he errs it is difficult to convict him
of error, for there are few sign-posts in the road of “ab¬
solute vision,” and when he betakes him to “ aerial” loco¬
motion the critic cannot follow. There are some flights,
however, which, permissible in poetry or metaphysics, seem
out of place in a book intended to influence opinion upon
questions of politics and sociology. One may err in breadth
of vision when a distinct view of near objects is required—
as a man who should attempt to direct his course by the
Polar star to the neglect of pitfalls and brick walls—not to
speak of conventional sign-posts.
So far as the political aim of England and Islam is con¬
cerned, we fail to see that the existence of a special spiritual
affinity between the “ soul of England” and the soul of
“Islam” is sufficiently demonstrated. The analogical
faculty (a quality of mind most useful in all abstract reason¬
ing) may be trusted too far. Its conclusions should be
regarded as probabilities, not as absolute data. The ideal is
not necessarily real, though the real may be necessarily ideal.
However, the rare faculties of ideality and comparison which
the author displays in a marked degree are such a necessary
counterpoise or rather araft'poise to the groping system of
modern thought that we can well forgive a little too much
buoyancy in their action, if such there be. We wish the
author therefore “ God-speed,” and whether his views and
utterances be prophetic (as he thinks them) or not, there is
much in them which will prove a fine physic for the “ Body
of England” and the narrower sect of the scientists.
G. F. Green.
There is abundant evidence in the records of Spiritualism that all
persons who are not mediums in the ordinary sense of the term, are
most sensitive to spiritual impressions at the moment between sleeping
and waking, when their experiences are sometimes remarkable. Can
our readers furnish us with further well authenticated examples ?
41
July 27, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST.
IJoetrg. |
NO DREAM. |
Once I walked by the deep river’s side,
Where the moon through grey mist clouds shone white,
Watching him—my own love—onward glide \ |
Neath a white sail through deepening night. I
“ Sweetheart, go not alone 1”—but he gave i1
Me this answer with one parting kiss—
ii ’Tis not well for my darling to brave
E’on with me such a chill night as this.”
So I lingered and watched the white sail,
Through the mist veil and tremulous light,
Till between the dark hills swept a gale,
And the white sail was gone from my sight.
Loud I cried for good help, but alas !
Not a mortal had followed my way ;
Then I sank in the dank reedy grass,
Nor arose till the waking of day.
When I saw the white flowers which lay
Like fair isles on a lake yester morn,
Deeply rent and far scattered away,
From their calm mirror-bed rudely torn.
First to plunge deep beneath them I thought,
For I knew he was sleeping below,
When a strong unseen hand quickly caught
Me away in my desperate woe.
In the silence of evening I rove,
When the moon clothes the lilies in sheen,
Where, amidst the white flowers, my love
Is reflected in that placid stream.
All illumined with light still I trace
From his eyes how the old love doth beam ;
Aye, full sure as I gaze on his face,
This dear sight is no fanciful dream.
For the glory which circles his frame,
Is not born of the pallid moonlight,
Thus I know that he liveth again
Still expecting me there everynight.
And he says ere next moonlight shall gleam,
O’er the lilies through soft evening’s dew,
Two reflections shall meet on that stream,
And who knows that this may not be true ? R. A. Cox.
A SEANCE WITH MR. FORSTER.
An anonymous leading article writer in Truth, of July 12th, says
A friend of mine, a thoroughly practical man, for he was the president
of bne of the largest railroads, used to tell me of wonders that he had
seen performed by a medium of the name of Forster. “ Let me by all
means see them,” I said, and it was arranged that I should; but, for
one reason or another, I never came in contact with Forster until the
night previous to my leaving the country. I had asked the railway
president, and two or three other friends, to dine with me at Delmonico’s,
a famous New York restaurant. We had a private room, and, when
dinner was nearly finished, I happened to say to the president that,
after all, I should leave the country without meeting Forster. “ Shall
I send for him V’ he said. ,k By all means,” I replied; and he wrote a
note to invite him to come to the restaurant, and smoke a cigar with us.
Soon Forster appeared. He was a pleasant, gentlemanly man. Dessert
was on the table, and he sat down, drank his wine, smoked his cigar,
and joined in the general conversation. After a little while this conver¬
sation gravitated into a discussion on Spiritualism. Forster asked me
what I thought of him. I said, ‘‘ You are my guest, so I do not wish to
offend you; but if you really want to know, I regard you as a clever
conjuror.” “I have/7 he answered, “a certain power; whether it is
derived from spirits acting through me I do not know, but I am certain
that I have this power.” As he said this, the chair upon which he was
sitting began to crack portentously, as though it were going to fall into
pieces. “ Give me the chair,” I said, and I tried to make it crack in
the same manner; but it was a solid piece of furniture, and I utterly
failed. Then there were noises like explosions in all parts of the room.
“Is that conjuring?” he said. “ Probably,” I replied. “Can you do
it ?” he asked. “ No, I cannot,” I answered. At this moment there
were loud bangings on the ceiling. I rang the bell, and asked the
waiter, in French, who was in the room above. He went to see, and
came back with the information that the room was vacant. “A con¬
federate,” I observed to Forster; but he denied it. On this we sat
down round the table. Forster produced a card with an alphabet in
large letters on it, and told us to ask questions, and then to touch the
letters, pausing when we heard a rap. One of my friends was a Scots¬
man. He asked where an uncle had died (naming him). A Scotch
unpronounceable word was rapped out. “ That was the name of his
country house, and he did die there,” said the nephew. I then asked
where an aunt of mine had died. “ In the Isle of Wight,” was rapped
out. “ Wonderful,” I observed, which indeed it was, for the lady hap¬
pened to have died in London. Suddenly Forster got up from his chair,
and wriggled himself behind one on which another friend was sitting,
laid hold of his arm, and gave him a message from his sister, who had
died some years previously. There seemed to be nothing of the slightest
importance in the message. “ Go into the next room,” said Forster to
the brother, “and she will speak to you.” He did, and on his return
said that she had spoken to him. He looked pale and discomposed.
“ Well, what did she say?” I asked, but he would not tell me. Then
we wrote on pieces of paper, and rolled them up in balls. By means of
the alphabet Forster read them without opening them, r Are you con¬
vinced?” he asked me. “Not in the least,” I answered. I then went
into a comer of the room, turned my back on Forster, and, having
written a word on a piece of paper, folded it up, and rang the bell.
When the waiter came I sent him for an envelope, and, having put the
paper in the envelope, which I closed, and put it before a candle to see
that the light could not shine through it, handed it to Forster, and
asked him to read the word. He pressed the envelope to his forehead,
and then correctly read it. “Does this convince you?” he said. “It
convinces me,” I replied, “ that you have some curious mesmeric power,
or that you are a singularly clever conjuror; but it certainly does not
convince me of Spiritualism. Show me a spirit, or a ghost, or a head,
or a hand ?” “ To see these,” he answered, “ you must sit with me for
hours in the dark, evening after evening, and then perhaps one of these
manifestations may appear to you.” “ That is to say,” I replied, “ if I
get thrown into a morbid, dreamy state, you will persuade me that I see
something that has no real existence. Thank you;” and I handed him
a cigar, which he lit, and relapsed from a medium into a pleasant
companion,
RELIGIOUS ERAS COMPARED.
The following review of The Religion of Jesus as Compared with the
Christianity of To-day (E. W. Allen), by Mr. F. A. Binney, Member
of Council of the National Association of Spiritualists, is extracted
from the Salford Weekly Chronicle
In the preface to this work the author (who is a citizen of Manchester)
thus explains the scope of his work. He tells us that “its object is to
undermine the importance which all Christian Churches attach to
doctrine as a means of salvation, and to bring into prominence the
value of Christ’s moral teachings, which, according to his own showing,
alone comprise the one thing needful. “ In short, I have,” says he,
‘‘endeavoured to show that modern Christianity—in dwelling so
prominently on the value of the doctrine of Christ’s divinity and the
atonement—^virtually preaches salvation through the birth and death of
Christ; whereas the New Testament most emphatically teaches salvation
only through the life of Christ.” The first part of the work consists of
an elaborate analysis of the teachings of Christ and the teachings of
the Apostles, dividing them into the practical and the doctrinal
teachings. The result of this analysis is then summed up, and the
writer eliminates what he considers to have been taught by Christ as
necessary for salvation, and rejects all other texts as of minor
importance. He finds as a result that Christ nowhere requires of
mankind a belief in any doctrine whatever on pain of damnation, but
over and over again both He and His disciples insisted upon the
necessity above all things of obeying Christ’s commands. In proof of
this the writer quotes, amongst many other texts, the words, “Why call
ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say;” and “Not
every one that saith unto me Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom
of heaven; but he that doeth the will of My Father which is in
heaven.” He also discusses the meaning of the word “ salvation,” and
comes to the conclusion that it is not a future alternative against hell
fire and eternal damnation, but simply means the attainment of hap¬
piness, and, as such, salvation may commence in this life. He concludes
by the texts of the New Testament, as well as by reason, that salvation
or happiness is only attainable “by cultivating a truthful, benevolent,
charitable, and unselfish disposition, exemplified by kindly deeds and
an upright life.”
Mr. Binney does not consider that our reason can admit that a belief
in God is necessary to salvation, but he argues (and herein Mr. J. S.
Mill, in his essay on the Utility of Religion, is of the same opinion) that
it can be shown from every-day experience in life that the believer in
God must necessarily be a happier man than the unbeliever; and so
also with the believer in the efficacy of prayer, and the belief in a
future state. These may not be necessary to salvation in the orthodox
sense; but he argues that, in so far as we admit that salvation and
happiness are synonymous terms, they are necessary to salvation, but in
no other sense.
In Part II. the author deals with the Christianity of to-day, reviewing
the doctrines and form of prayer in the churches of England, Scotland,
and Rome, and of the various dissenting bodies, and the conclusion he
comes to is that they all agree upon one point only, namely, the value
and importance of Christ’s practical teachings; and therefore, argues
Mr. Binney, the probabilities are that these are the only grains of truth
that modern Christianity possesses. About doctrinal points no two
divisions of modern Christianity are agreed, and it is precisely these
matters that, in the first part, he contends are not required of us, even
by the letter of Scripture itself, and they are therefore immaterial and
ought to be removed from all creeds. He criticises the Church of
England service, and especially the reading up of passages from the
Psalms breathing sentiments diametrically opposed to the teachings of
Christ, and therefore neither edifying nor conducive to the soul’s
benefit. He is also severe upon the uselessness of modern doctrinal
sermons, and the great indifference of the clergy to the real wants of
their hearers. The author gives an outline of the creed of the Spirit¬
ualists, and points out in what respect their faith supplies a gap in the
creed of modern Christianity, especially in reference to the Church’s
ignorance and inconsistent teaching upon the doctrine of a future life—
in one part hinting that the dead are already angels before the throne
of God, and elsewhere teaching that they are all sleeping until the day
of j udgment. A. lengthy chapter is devoted to Modern Christianity in
Daily Life, full of pertinent extracts from newspapers upon such
questions as the salvation of Dissenters, disestablishment, the sale and
purchase of church livings, doctrine versus morality, Church of England
intolerance towards Dissenters, the progress of infidelity, mammon
42
July 27, 18f7.
THE SfclKlTtfALlST.
■worship and commercial frauds. The last chapter is devoted to an i) I
exhaustive attempt to disprove those arguments of Mr. Greg, in The k|
Creed of Christendom, which are directed against the miracles, Christ’s j j j
resurrection, the possibility of Divine inspiration, the efficacy of prayer, i | j
the forgiveness of sins, and a future stg(te< i (]
SLATE-WRITING UNDER TEST CONDITIONS. |
BJT HEN SLEIGH WEDGWOOD, M.B.I. K |
Hayinq engaged Dr. Monck to give me a sitting yester- Kj
day evening, I bought a couple of small slates, and tied /
them face to face with a fragment or two of slate pencil be- |||
tween them before Dr. Monck arrived. The slates were tied jjj
tightly together by a double fold of tape, the two ends of the j j
knot being sealed to the framing to hinder the band from jjj
slipping. In addition to this I sealed the edges of the slates jji
together, so that they could not be separated from each other j
in the slightest degree without being broken. The slates jji
were laid on the table, and in the course of the evening, in j j
a fair light, Dr. Monck, under control, desired me to place jjj
them on my head, which I did accordingly, keeping hold of jjj
them with one hand. He asked me whether I would have j !
the writing signed by my father or my grandfather. I told j j
him, as they were both named Josiah, he might take his i j
choice. He put one hand on the slates, and after a moment !
we all heard the scratching sound of pencil writing upon j
them. As soon as this was done I took the slates down and j
laid them on one side till the end of the seance. I then j
examined them by the full light of the gas, and satisfied my- jj
self that the seal on the edges of the slates was unbroken j
and called the attention of the other sitters to this essential jj
point. Having cut the tape I found the following message jj-
written lengthways on one of the slates, in a direction trans- j j
verse to that of the tape binding:— j j
God bless you j) j
for ever. j j j
Josiah. i) j
I am sensible that this is no more than what was frequently I j
done by [Dr. Slade, and is indeed in itself a less striking j j
example of Dr. Monck’s mediumship than that recorded in I j
the Medium of the 27th October last, where a long passage J j
was written on the face of a slate completely covered by a j j
thin board nailed down on the framing, but the fact in |j|
question is of so extraordinary a nature as to require the j j
accumulated evidence of repeated witnesses. j j
31, Queen Ann-street, Cavendish-square, London, July 20. j) !
VISIT OP THE BARON AND BARONESS VON VAY TO j j
ENGLAND. jj
Early next month the Baron and Baroness von Vay will j
spend a short time in London, on their way to Ireland, and j j
it is intended to give them a public reception at the rooms ! j
of the National Association of Spiritualists, on the tenth of j j
August. The Baroness von Vay is well known to the j j
readers of this journal by her distinguished services in the
cause of Spiritualism, as the writer of the works Studies j j
from the Spirit-world and Spirit^ Force^ and Matter,* and j j
as the foundress and patroness of the Spiritualist Society at j j
Buda-Pest, in Austrian Hungary. It is unfortunate that
the visit of our friends is at a time of year when many j j
Spiritualists will be absent from London, but there will j j
doubtless be a sufficient number present to make a good j j
gathering, and at all events to give them the cordial welcome j j
due to all noble and outspoken supporters of Spiritualism, j j
As the Baroness is well acquainted with English, it is hoped j j
that she may be prevailed on to give some account of her j {
own experiences in Spiritualism, or of the prospects of the jjj
spiritual movement in Germany and Austria.
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Gales Forster, from the United j j
States, will also be present and cordially welcomed. Mr. j j
Forster is a well-known contributor of excellent articles to j j
the Banner of Light newspaper, and it will be of interest to j j
hear from him something of the state and progress of j
Spiritualism in its early home on the other side of the j j
Atlantic. It will be pleasing to gather together in one j j
meeting these representative Spiritualists from abroad in j j
company with several veteran English leaders in the move- |
ment, and numerous latter-day workers, representing jj
various shades of opinion and belief, yet all equally im¬
pressed with the importance of the work in which they are
engaged.
FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
Although form manifestations are deeply interesting when progress is
made in their evolution in private, no manifestations do so much harm
as these when it is attempted to use them for proselytising purposes.
They are the reverse of convincing to an inquirer, because the medium
is usually out of sight in a cabinet, and even when the manifestations
are presented under absolute test conditions, which is not always pos¬
sible, the result is too much for a beginner to believe all at once ; such
phenomena usually terribly exhaust the medium, and send the observer
away strongly prejudiced against the subject. Raps or table motions
without contact, or a few unanswerable manifestations in the light, are
infinitely better for beginners: When a medium is not on his own pre¬
mises, and in a cabinet with no opening but the one facing the spectators,
it is good evidence of materialisation if two living figures come out of
the cabinet, and all the witnesses present, as in duty bound, put their
names and addresses to a certificate that they simultaneously saw | the
living flexible features of the two forms side by side.” When only
two objects are seen near together in a bad light, not with flexible
features, or not walking about independently of each other, and when all
the witnesses do not certify to what they have seen, the evidence is not
so strong as the importance of the phenomena demands. We request all
correspondents who in future send us accounts of form manifestations
to attend to these points, to say whether or not two living flexible faces
were seen together, and to give the names and addresses of all the
witnesses.
Mr. Home’s boob, written out of jealousy of other mediums, has
brought down more abuse of Spiritualism in the new periodical called
Truth.
On Sunday next Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver two trance addresses in
the Temperance Hall, Horsedge-street, Oldham; afternoon at 2.30,
evening at 6 ; admission free.
By a letter received just before going to press, we learn that the Rev.
Thomas Colley, late of Portsmouth, is now acting temporarily as English
Chaplain at Naples.
Nearly all our correspondents now give their names and addresses
for publication at the end of their communications, and we hope that the
few who do not do so, will hereafter imitate the good example set by
their neighbours.
Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage.—Next Monday, in the course of Mrs.
Weldon’s musical soiree at the Langham Hall, Great Portland-street,
Regent-street, Mrs. Weldon will read a history of her Orphanage, and
as she never does things by halves, but expresses opinions about persons
and things with the utmost freedom, a lively meeting may be expected.
It will be a good one for those to attend who have never yet been
present at one of her meetings. Mrs. Weldon, as a Spiritualist who
gives up many of the luxuries of life, and all her annual income, to the
personal education and training of helpless orphan children, deserves
warm countenance and support, and as the charges for admission to her
soiree or concert vary to suit everybody, it is to be hoped she will have
a good attendance next Monday. An account just published by her
shows that she has not only managed to make her weekly concerts for
the benefit of the Orphanage self-supporting during the last six months,
but has cleared about <£70 by them.
Reception at Mr. William Terr’s.—On Thursday evening last
week, Mr. and Mrs. William Tebb, of Gloucester-gate, Regent’s-park,
London, gave a reception to Spiritualistic and other friends, among
whom were:—Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Massey ; Mr. Walter Weldon,
F.C.S., and Mrs. Weldon ; Dr. and Mrs. Stanhope Templeman Speer;
Mr. A. Yacher; Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Ellis; Dr. George Wyld; Mr.
H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., and Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken; Mr. Keningale
Cook, LL.D., and Mrs. Cook; Mr. Coster; Mr., Mrs. and Miss Des¬
mond Fitz-Gerald; Dr. Hitchman ; Mrs. Hallock ; The Rev. W.
Stainton-Moses, M.A.; Mr. and Mrs. E. T. Bennett; Mr. W. H.
Harrison; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe; Mr. William White, author of The
Life of Swedenborg; Mr., Mrs., and Miss Clayden; Signor Rondi;
Miss Houghton; Dr. and Mrs. Coffin; The Misses Coffin; Mr. C.
Coffin; Mr. W. H. Coffin; Rev. Wm. and Mrs. Hayden; Mr. F. W.
Percival; Mr. and Miss Shorter; Miss Kislingbury; Mrs. and Miss
Cooper; Miss Ella Dietz; Mr. F. Dietz; Mrs. G. N. Strawbridge;
Mrs. Harvey; The Misses Harvey; Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Fletcher;
Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Morse; Miss Laffan, authoress of O'Hagan, M.P.;
Dr. Carter Blake ; Miss Knight; Miss Mackay; Mr. J. G. Crawford;
Mr. J. T. Peele, A.R.A.; Miss Parker; Mr. Anthony Godbe; Mr.,
Mrs., and Miss Lewis; Mr. Cornelius Pearson; Mrs. Coombes; Mr.
and Mrs. R. P. Tebb; Mr. and Mrs. J. H, Tebb; and many others.
In the course of the evening Miss Ella Dietz, of the Theatre Royal,
Haymarket, gave an amusing recitation from Hans Christian Andersen’s
works; and Mr. Gerald Massey read a brief poem, relating to the
origin in Egypt of many religious and other ideas [now prevalent, in
which subject he is well up, in consequence of his assiduous work over
his forthcoming book on The Origin of Myths. Miss Ellen Cooper
gave two songs, with exquisite and cultivated ability; Mr. Weldon a
recitation; and Mr. Campbell (Principal of the Royal Normal College
for the Blind, visited a few days ago by the Princess Louise), aided by
several of his pupils, entertained the company with music and singing.
Mr. and Mrs. Tebb have been associated with the work of the College
since 1872 ; Mr. Tebb was on the managing committee for some years,
until his delicate health forced him to resign, but he still takes as active
an interest as possible in its progress, since those benefited belong, to
the most helpless class of the community,
* titudien aus der Geisterwelt; Geist, Kraft, Staff, Oswald Mulze, Leipzig.
July 27, 1877.
THE spiritualist,
43
SEANCES WITH MESSRS. FLETCHER AND WILLIAMS.
BY W. K. TOMLINSON.
I have been for many years subject to be awoke from my
sleep by words, clairaudiently heard, which continue for
some short time after I awake, often conveying short
messages coming, as I suppose, from deceased relations and
others whom I may have known, or not, when living. I
may add that these messages cannot, from their nature,
arise from any seeking of my own, as I only receive them
under the conditions expressed.
The above experience has long convinced me of spirit
identity; but as the messages received are often fragmentary,
and my personal power of continuing the communion con¬
secutively nilyl was glad to be able to pay a visit to Mr.
Fletcher, which I did on Wednesday, July 4th.
Almost at once Mr. Fletcher, without any hint from my¬
self, or indeed without the particular spirit being in my
thoughts, gave me a long and interesting message from the
alleged spirit of my paternal grandfather, the identity of
whom I did not doubt, as the message was entirely in accord
in its tenor with those I had previously received from the
same spirit personally in the way I have described. I may
here remark that the above spirit was the first that I remem¬
ber to have come to me, so as to make his presence felt,
since my faculty of clairaudience, such as it is, first came
upon me, now some twenty years ago. This spirit said to
me, through Mr. Fletcher, “You are going to some dark
stances while in London. I will try to speak to you there.”
I had such intention.
My grandfather was a captain in the navy. At forty years
of age he began to study the Hebrew language in order to
read the Bible in the original tongue. He subsequently
published a Hebrew grammar. He contested the opinions
of Dr. Priestly, and wrote some theological works, one of
which he called characteristically for a man-of-war, Arius
Slain and Socims Mortally Wounded.
Soon Mr. Fletcher said : “ I see another relation of yours.
He seems suddenly snatched away from all his friends by
violence. I do not see this where you are, but in a foreign
country far away. It must have been a hot country, for I
feel so warm.” Then he added: <c How very strange ! The
spirit is all dripping with water* How is that ? I can’t
make it out.” “ Give me more tests,” I replied. I felt I
did not want them, but asked nevertheless. The medium
then took my left hand, and opening out the palm wrote
with the index finger of his right hand, several times over,
the word “Nicholas,” always finishing by dotting the i.
This name, “ Nicholas,” had been spelt out at the last seance,
where any intelligence had been displayed, that I had
attended; this was at Brighton on May 28th, 1875, in St.
James’s-street, if we exceptDr. Lynn’s public “seance” where
I had been the day before. The medium explained that this
was the spirit of my brother Nicholas, who was killed on the
spot in May, 1842, at Chapoo, in the Chinese war of that
period, but whose body was taken from the battle-field on
board one of Her Majesty’s ships to be committed to the
deep with funeral honours. The spirit of this brother has
been more, apparently, about me, now for some time, than
any other ; not, Mr* Fletcher informed me, from any especial
brotherly affection that existed between us during his life,
but because I attract him now more than other living mem¬
bers of my family, for the reason that he knows that I would
not desire to repulse him as a spirit.
On the next day, Thursday, July 5th, I had another very
interesting seance with Mr. Fletcher, when the above-named
two spirits returned to me, both giving me long and most
interesting further test details of a private nature.
On that same evening of July 5th I attended the seance at
Mr. Williams’s. Peter, whom I had only met to my know¬
ledge once before, now nearly six years ago, at once greeted
me by name, and afterwards lighted up his face. John King
too, whom I had not met for the same period, greeted me by
name cordially, shaking my hand with one apparently as
material as my own, and said at once: 1 Your grandfather
and your brother are standing behind your chair.” This was a
very satisfactory test to me, for I had certainly given no
clue to either of the mediums that could have brought out
this coincidence. I mentioned this at the seance.
A further test now occurred Which further convinced me.
Peter suddenly cried out: “ Your brother is all wet! Oh !
how he drips ; he is running down with water.” Peter con¬
tinued thus exclaiming, but later on at the seance told me
the spirit was not dripping then. Soon John King said:
“ Your brother wishes me to let him place his hand upon
your head.” I then felt a hand on the top of my head,
which was passed down over my brows.
John King said he could not materialise on that night;
would I come on Saturday ? I said that I would remain in
London over Saturday if I were sure he would materialise on
that night, as I had never seen a materialisation. Then
John King said, “ Come to-morrow, Friday, at two o’clock,
and I will materialise then for you.”
“ On Friday, July 6th, at two o’clock in the afternoon,
Mr. Williams and I sat alone in his dark stance room at
opposite sides of the table. Very soon after we were seated
John King’s voice was heard. A material hand again shook
mine. We three conversed together for several minutes;
then John King asked Mr. Williams to go into the cabinet.
Not long after, John King appeared with his light. He did
not come near me at first, but said : l| Don’t be afraid.” He
was high up. I answered: “ Oh, no ! I am not in the least
j afraid.” Indeed it would have been very foolish and incon¬
sistent if I had been afraid of a spirit whom I believed to
be well disposed towards me, having been so long subject, as
I have, to visions both by night and by day. Then occurred
| for several minutes, to me, a most touching and extra¬
ordinary scene. John King kept coming close up to me, as
I sat with my two hands on the table, showing himself by
his light and asking me if I saw him well. He would
occasionally go to the cabinet, only to return to me with his
| features more brightly illuminated than before. He would
| be generally right over the table, in order that I might see
j him well, sometimes higher, sometimes lower. Sometimes
I would rise up from my seat so as to peer more closely into
his features. Then he would, after I had seen him high up,
say: ja You saw me floating ? ” “ Yes,” I replied, “ I did,
j indeed.” Then he passed right through the table, and I
j looked under the table to see if he was there ; he was not,
but when I lifted up my head again he was again before me.
I could not help smiling when I saw him so often over the
table so close in front of me, and asking myself what would
Mr. Williams have done with his legs if in trance he had
been personating the spirit ? I saw far more than enough to
prove to me that that was entirely impossible. Besides, the
spirit’s face was no more like that of Mr. Williams, either in
feature or in complexion “ than I to Hercules.” Next, John
King came out with apparently a larger light than before;
it was beautiful and bright indeed; he held it at one end,
with both hands plainly visible, as well as his face, and
allowed me freely to handle this beautiful light; a wondrous
handling. This greater light was of the shape of a large
I oblong beach pebble, and shone like a brilliant moon. I
j was, however, to witness, perhaps, even a still more
wondrous sight than the above. The spirit next held close
up in his hands a brilliant cross, to which he called my
attention over and over again; it was not above an inch or
| two in length, but so very bright that the spirit’s face was
| plainly seen by it. I could not but be reminded of the
well-known lines:—
Hold thou thy cross before my closing eyes,
Shine through the gloom, and point me to the skies.
I was yet to be favoured with another remarkable manifes-
| tation. John King, in full view, with a light in his hands,
said, “ Now I am going to sit down.” I then heard a chair
drawn to the table opposite me, to the place where Mr.
Williams had been sitting before he entered the cabinet, and
| there I saw John King plainly. He said, “ You see me sitting
I at the table,” which, I told him, I certainly did without
'! doubt. He sat with apparently his elbows on the table,
! I holding the light up to his face with his two hands, and thus
[| we resumed the conversation. After a time, as we both sat
'! talking, the light was extinguished, and the form was no
!] longer seen ; but there sat John King apparently still, for
II his voice in conversation continued from the same place. I
11 believe that I was the one on this cccasion who spoke the
I! most, for I told John King something about the earth-lives
1 of the two spirits who had come to me at Mr. Williams’s
and Mr, Fletcher’s seances} both of whom, John King had
44
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 27, 1877.
told me, stood behind my chair the evening before. I gave |j
him traditional details concerning my grandfather, who died h
when I was a child; and I spoke also of my brother, the late j
Colonel Nicholas Ralph Tomlinson, who was killed at Chapoo, j
in China, in the month of May, 1842, and was buried at j(
sea; and who, as the late Lord Gough (then Sir Hugh), the j
Commander-in-Chief, said in his despatches, “died at the Is
head of his men, nobly doing his duty.” I told John King |(
that there was an effigy of my brother in St. Patrick’s j
Cathedral, Dublin; that on a handsome monument, placed j(
there by his regiment (the 18th Royal Irish), he was sculp- |
tured as being carried dead from the battle-field. We had j
thus conversed for some time, when the spirit said it was j
time to wake the medium. Mr. Williams came out of the j
cabinet and struck a light. I told him that John King had j
been sitting at the table opposite to me, conversing. Mr. j
Williams spoke of this latter fact—the spirit sitting at the |
table—as a strange occurrence ; and then he remarked upon I
the chair drawn up to the table, and said that he had cer- j
tainly put back his chair to the wall before he entered the j
cabinet. j
(ETormponnence, |
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes expressopinions diametrically opposed [ /
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; !/
topics should be kept by the writers.] ; (
A LATIN AUTHOR ON THE UNSEEN -WORLD. !\
Sib,—I venture to send you a copy of a passage from Apuleius, a H
Latin writer of the early part of the second century, thinking it might j j
possibly interest Spiritualists, giving, as it does, as clear a glimpse as j(!
we can hope to have of the ideas of a Latin Spiritualist about the con- :}fj
stitution of the unseen world. The passage is taken from Apuleius on ])|
the God of Socrates, Bohn’s translated edition. Speaking of the nature |(j
of the inhabitants of the spiritual world, he says:— n j
'** And not to discuss prolixly the rest of the instances, the poets, from j) j
this multitude of demons, are accustomed, in a way by no means remote | j
from the truth, to feign the gods to be haters and lovers of certain men, j j
and to give prosperity and promotion to some, and to oppose and afflict | i
others. Hence they are influenced by pity, moved by indignation, racked j< j
with vexation, elated with joy, and are subject to all the affections of i|
the human mind, and are agitated by all the fluctuations of human | j
thought, with similar commotions of the spirit and agitations of the j j!
feelings, all which storms and tempests are far alien from the tranquil I j !
state of the celestial gods. For all the celestials always enjoy the same j \ j
state of mind, with an eternal equanimity, which in them is never driven || j
from its own fixed states, either in the direction of pleasure or of pain; j j j
nor is it moved by anything from its own everlasting rule towards any | \!
sudden line of conduct; neither by any external force, because there is |||
nothing more powerful than deity; nor of their own impulses, because |)|
nothing is more perfect than deity. i j
“ And furthermore, how can he appear to have been more perfect who ! \ j
moves from a former condition of being to another condition which is j j j
better ? And this the more especially, as no one spontaneously embraces | j |
anything new, unless he is tired of what he had before, for a new mode i j j
of proceeding cannot be adopted without disapproving the preceding pi
modes. j (i
“Hence, it follows that a god ought not to be employed in any |(i
temporal functions, either of beneficence or love, and therefore is neither | | |
to be influenced by indignation, nor by pity, nor to be disquieted by any j j
anxiety, nor elated by any hilarity; but he is free from all the passions j j
of the mind, so as never either to grieve or to rejoice, nor on sudden ||j
impulse to will, or to unwill. ! j
“But all these and other qualities of the like kind properly accord | j
with the middle nature of demons; for they are intermediate between us | j
and the gods, both in the place of their habitation, and in their nature, j < |
having immortality in common with the gods of heaven, and passions j j i
in common with subordinate beings. For they are capable, just as we j)|
are, of being affected by all that soothes, as well as all that moves the 11 j
mind, so as to be stimulated by anger, influenced by pity, allured by m
gifts, appeased by prayers, exasperated by affronts, soothed by honours, j j
and swayed by all other circumstances, just in the same way as we are. j (j
“ For to embrace the nature of them in a definition, demons are as to pi
genius animated beings, as to mind rational, as to feelings passive, as to j j
body aerial, as to duration eternal. Of these five characteristics which j||
I have mentioned, the three first are the same as those which we possess, i i
the fourth is peculiar to themselves, and the last they possess in common | j
with the immortal gods, from whom they differ in being subject to jj! j
passion. Hence, according to my idea, I have not absurdly called I i
demons passive, because they are subject to the same perturbations as l (|
we are, and on this account it is that we may place some confidence in pi
the different observances of religions, and the various propitiatory j|{
offerings made in sacred rites. There are likewise some among this i i
same number of gods who rejoice in victims, or ceremonies, or obser- hi
vances, nocturnal or diurnal, public, or performed in secret, replete with i j
the greatest joy, or marked with extreme sadness. Thus the Egyptian i(j
deities are almost all delighted with lamentations, the Grecian in general i j i
with dances, and those of the Barbarians with the sounds produced by jM
cymbals, tambourines, and pipes.” i (I
Also further on Apuleius goes on to say:— I) I
“Now, according to a certain signification, the human soul, even If I
when it is still situate in the body, is called a demon, 1 1
0 say, Euryalus, do gods inspire
In minds this ardour, or does fierce desire
Rule as a god in its possessor’s heart.
“If, then, this is the case, a longing of the soul that is of good
tendency is a good demon. Hence it is that some think, as we have
already observed, that the blessed are called endsemones, the demon of
whom is good, that is whose mind is perfect in virtue. You may call
this demon in our language, according to my mode of interpretation, by
the name of Genius, whether quite correctly I am not altogether sure,
but at all events, at any risk you may so call it; because this God, who
is the mind of every one, though immortal, is nevertheless, after a
certain manner, generated with man ; so that those prayers in which we
implore the Genius, and which we employ when we embrace the
knees (genua) of those whom we supplicate, seems to me to testify this
connection, and union, since they comprehend in two words, the body,
and the mind, through the communion and conjunction of which we
exist.
“ There is also another species of demons, according to a second
signification, and this is the human soul, after it has performed its duties
in the present life and quitted the body: I find that this is called in the
Latin language by the name of Lemur.
“ Now of these Lemures, the one who undertaking the guardianship
of his posterity, dwells in a house with propitious and tranquil in¬
fluence, is called the familiar Lar. But those who having no fixed
habitation of their own, are punished with vague wanderings, as with a
kind of exile, on account of the evil deeds of their life are usually called
Larvae ; thus becoming a vain terror to the good, but a source of punish¬
ment to the bad.”
Then Apuleius approaching the main object of his essay, thus describes
guardian angels
“ All you, therefore, who hear this divine opinion of Plato, as ex¬
plained by me, so adapt your minds to whatever may he the subject of
your meditation, as men who know there is nothing concealed from those
guardians either within the mind or external to it; but that the demon
scrupulously takes part in these matters, sees all things, understands all
things, and dwells in the most profound recesses of the mind, in the place
of conscience. He of whom I speak is entirely our guardian, our indi¬
vidual keeper, our watcher at home, our proper regulator, a searcher
into our inmost fibres, our constant observer, our unseparable witness,
a reprover of our evil actions, an approver of our good ones; if he is
knowingly attended to, sedulously examined, and devoutly worshipped in
the way in which he was worshipped by Socrates, in justice and in
innocence, he is our forewarner in uncertainty, our monitor in matters
of doubt, our defender in danger, and our assistant in need. He is able
also by dreams, and by tokens, and perhaps even openly, when necessity
demands it, to avert from you evil, to increase your blessings, to aid you
when depressed, to support you when failing, to lighten your darkness,
to regulate your prosperity, and modify your adversity.”
Apuleius then goes on to describe the character of Socrates as making
it peculiarly easy for his guardian demon to impress him with true ideas
and right feelings. He then proceeds to show that conversations with
demons was not an uncommon thing in ages gone past. That we have
the authority of Aristotle for the fact that the sect of the Pythagoreans
expressed great surprise if any one denied that he had ever seen a demon.
That men who endeavoured to cultivate their spirit were peculiarly
favoured by this personal intercourse with the higher intelligencies.
He shows also why the cultivation of the spirit is thus superior to all
other objects of life :—
“Is a man of noble birth? You praise his parents. Is he rich? I
put no trust injortune, nor do I admire these things a bit the more. Is
he strong? He will be weakened by sickness. Is he swift in the race ?
He will fall into old age. Is he beautiful P Wait a little he will be so
no longer. But is he well instructed, and extremely learned in the
pursuits of philosophy, and wise, and skilled in the knowledge of good,
as much as it is possible for man to be ? Now then, at last you praise
the man himself. For this is neither an hereditary possession from
his father, nor depending on chance, nor yet on the suffrages of the
people, nor subject to bodily decay nor mutable through age.”
If, Mr. Editor, you are of opinion that these passages from an
ancient Spiritualist in faith, and if his enemies are true witnesses,
a magician in practice, would interest the readers of The Spiritualist,
I beg you to find room for them.
Spiritualism will make men of modern times, regard the religious
ideas and ceremonies of the Greeks and Romans with greater reverence
than has been for many centuries vouchsafed to them. They have
been passed over as mere heathens, or pagans, in religion, from
whom we can derive no benefit, however much we are indebted to
the one nation for the principles of beauty, science, or philosophy, or to
the other for the principles of law and order.
Spiritualism will thus furnish a fresh proof of “ the solidarity of the
human race,” and the oneness of nature, when all men shall see that far
from being a new thing, the intuition of the existence of a spiritual or
ethereal world, with the inhabitants of which we are able under certain
conditions to communicate, has been common to humanity, wherever
and whenever it became sufficiently self-conscious to ask itself, in
wonder, what it was, where it came from, and whither it was going.
W. J. B.
July 20th-, 1877.  
LINKS BETWEEN SPIRITUALISM, MESMERISM, AND PHRENOLOGY.
Sir,—Certain phenomena which I have witnessed in my practice as
a mesmeric healer in private, or as an experimentalist upon the public
platform, cannot fail to be interesting to the students of man. I do
not mean students of physiology only, but of psychology as well, for
without combining the two it is utterly impossible to disentangle the
skein of man’s complex existence, dependent on matter, erected in
spirit, working out the purposes of being, as well by the failures as by
the achievements of the present.
July 27, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
45
Professor Gregory notices in his Letters (which I am glad to see you j) j
have republished, as they form one of the best books that can be j)i
placed in the hands of inquirers into mesmerism) that it is difficult for j (j
a clairvoyant to give the name of a person or thing. b iji
Captain James recorded similar experiences in The Spiritualist a few jjp
weeks ago. Hi
Mr. Atkinson differs, however, practically from both, never having j j
had any difficulty in obtaining names (or tests) from his own mesmeric j) |
sensitives. HI
I am indebted to phrenology for the assistance it has afforded me in ! (j
the investigation and practice of mesmerism, for I have found in my j 11
experience some clairvoyants who could give names, and others who j j
could not. And, as I was the mesmeriser in all cases, the difference ! j
of power and ability in the sensitives could not have arisen from the j | j
fact that they had different mesmerists operating upon them, or I j j
could induce at one time that which I was incapable of obtaining at ! j
another. 1(1
But, in addition to the above, I have found that subjects who were , j j
able to give names, dates and events, with accuracy at one time when j j
under influence, were also able at all times to do so, and that those j (j
clairvoyants who were not able to give names, but who went in a | I
roundabout fashion to describe a biscuit or a person always manifested i | j
that peculiarity. ! ? j
The light that phrenology threw upon my observations was this, and i !
so far I have found it to be an in varible rule or law:— | i
I found the first-mentioned sensitives had the organ of eventuality i |!
(situated in the middle of the forehead, immediately above individuality) ! (!
more developed than the average. I also found in those who could not j (!
give names the aforementioned organ was either of average size or |)j
below it. What does this point to ? Simply, in my opinion, that the ] t j
expression of intelligence was equal to the instrument or train which j (j
was the vehicle of that expression. | i
The same law I find to govern test mediumship. In my investiga- I j
tion of Spiritualism I never found a test medium deficient in the organ | (j
of eventuality, but I have always found that deficiency in mediums j | j
who could not give names, dates, and events. j (i
In this I fancy I have traced an important relationship between [ |
mesmerism and Spiritualism, but if further investigation should prove i (I
that I am not right, I am ready to be corrected. Meanwhile, I sug- j |
gest, with the Countess of Caithness, to the students of Spiritualism |} j
that they should not only add mesmerism, but phrenology, to their ;(i
studies of true anthropology—man, a spirit; and man—matter. They j (|
should study mind and its powers, the power of mind over mind, and i);
of mind over matter. I hold with J. W. Jackson, “ As a plastic force, j (|
and consequently as a determining element of form and power—of | (i
physical development and mental proclivity — the nervous system | j;
reigns supreme. It is its comparative absence that leaves the worm in I (j
his weakness, and its presence that raises man to his irresistible |(|
dominion. It is its imperfection that retains the negro in his hut, and j j;
its strength that exalts the Caucasian to his temple. From the reptile |) i
in his ooze to the philosopher in his study, the successive gradations of |(|
terrestrial being are measured by its development and culture. Now, j j j
of this most important part of our nature, the brain, in its volume, con- j / j
tour, and quality, is the surest index.” | |
By studying phrenology we study the instrument of mental mani- I [ j
festations, whether normal or abnormal. Wonderful is the law of j(|
progress, for, like steps in a ladder, mesmerism, phrenology, and j(j
Spiritualism, succeed each other. Without the two first we fail to tf!
read the latter aright. J. Coates, j j I
12, Lime-street, Liverpool. ijj
PARAFFIN MOULDS OF SPIRIT HEADS.—NO. 5. i
Sm,—You see I vary the above title from what it has hitherto been— j
from “Spirit Faces” to “Spirit Heads;” for we have this evening |
(July 14th) obtained a second entire head, and this time down close to i
the shoulders. And such a magnificent head! as you shall soon see in j
the photographs. It is of that grand old Roman spirit, Glaucus, well- j
known to the readers of these letters, who lived in the time of St. Paul, j
for he has said that he had “ looked upon the face of him who preached \
to the men of AthensT He was, it seems, a “ physician,” not in the j
medical, but rather in the more general, philosophical sense, corre- j
spending to the French physicien. He has said that Paul was first a I
disciple (pupil) of his, and he afterwards a disciple (convert) of Paul. I 11
once asked whether he had been a martyr. “ No.’’ But I was told i {
that he “ attended the last hours of Paul, in prison.”—“ But I thought |
that Paul died by decapitation, by the order of Nero. Such, at least, is | <
the tradition and legend of the Catholic Church.” “ That is not the \
'only error of those legends. PLe died in prison.” I do not mean to give
these as his own direct words, but as those of John King, purporting to |<
speak for him and by his authority. John King and several other of our |!
spirit friends always speak of him as “ that great and saintly spirit, 11
Glaucus,” or by similar words of designation. We have seen him H
materialised a countless number of times. He it was who mesmerised j ]
me, when seriously ill, so often and so powerfully, as related in my |
former series of letters, with strong, vigorous manipulation; who has so i i
often made upon us the sign of the cross, sometimes with his hand, | ]
sometimes with John King’s light; who has lavished upon us the |
tenderest of caresses, the most solemn acts of benediction; and in h
regard to whom I have not recorded half I might have told.
Well, it is of this “ Glaucus,” who lived in Rome over eighteen |
hundred years ago, that we have just received the superb mould of his j
bust, close down to turn of the shoulders. We as yet only know the j
outside of the thickly-formed mould, but that is enough by which to j
recognise a grand old Roman. You shall see a photograph of the mould, !
as also one of the cast for which it is to serve. The head is a little j
turned aside, and inclined downward to the right. It is covered with ‘
abundant close-curled hair. There were present the Count de Bullet,
the Countess, M. Levoff, of St. Peterburg (our Russian friend), and
myself, to say nothing of Mrs. Firman, the wife of the medium.
We did not know which of the two we should have this evening,
whether “Alexandrine ” or “ Glaucus.” It had been promised that it
should be the former, if possible, because her brother was anxious to
leave; but it was agreed that it should be whichever of the two could
be best materialised, and that then the other should come next. M.
Levoff at first seated himself so as to receive the mould in his hands,
i.e., opposite to the cold-water vessel, but the Count was directed to take
that place. Presently, at the middle opening of the curtain, appeared
before us John King, with his arms outstretched, finely illuminated, and
visible down to about the knees, and then, immediately after his disap¬
pearance, our well-known Glaucus, gray, beardless, and mature rather
than aged, well illumined by John King’s light, which he held in his
hand, and with which he made the sign of the cross. He showed only
some six or eight inches below the neck. John asked us to excuse his
keeping up his light, as the atmosphere was not favourable, and he did
not wish to divert any of the power from the materialisation. We told
him to do as he deemed best; we had already seen the
actual dipping often enough. We then soon heard the dipping,
first into the paraffin, and then into the cold water; the
same being repeated some five or six times (in the course of which I, in
direct contact with the paraffin vessel, again got a pretty liberal splash¬
ing, to the damage of my clothes). We also heard John King executing
what had been arranged for beforehand, namely, the pouring more and
more paraffin over the mould (from a tin cup) to thicken and strengthen
it. At last he told the Count that he might now receive it in his hands,
and to hold it firmly. This time it was so hot, by reason of the hot
paraffin poured on and over it, that the Count could scarcely bear it,
and made exclamations accordingly. Precisely the same experience then
ensued as related in my last letter; the same jsmW for a second or two;
the same resistance equivalent to a counter-pull by the Count; the same
sudden escape of the contents; with the same result of the empty mould
remaining in the Count’s hands, to be then let down by him into the
cold water vessel—in which, by the way, by reason of the large size of
the mould, he had to manage and turn it about a little to find admission
for it. The Count said that it was quite heavy, with the head in it, hut
not so much so as would have been a plaster cast bad such been the
basis on which the mould had been deposited. The empty mould weighs
about 4 lbs. (as estimated by the feeling), so thick has it been made.
It will be necessary to replace the abstracted quantity of paraffin, and
the quantity lost by the splashing, in order to keep up the requisite
depth of it in the “ barrel,” as John King calls it. The number of these
heads promised us, including the two already secured, is now not less
than eleven. I regret that I cannot be here to witness them all, but
hope and presume I shall receive that of my mother before I leave.
In my last I mentioned that in the intervals between the dippings
John King brought out the mould and showed it to us (the materialised
head being in it, as he afterwards said), at these successive stages of its
formation. The same took place this time, but with a difference. He
brought it out and showed it well, but only once, at the close, after the
last dipping, but before the mould was detached from the enclosed head,
or rather before the enclosed head was withdrawn or dematerialised out
of the mould. Exclamations of astonishment and delight arose from all
of us as we for the first time beheld that superb object held up in John
King’s hands.
When you receive the photographs of the mould, of which there will
be three, one being of the interior as seen through the neck, pray
observe one circumstance. All round the lower part or rim of it (except
at the very extremities of the shoulders), that lower rim bends or half¬
curls upward and inward. At those two shoulder extremities, where it
was evidently held up by John King’s hands in showing it to us, while
still soft, the stuff curls upward and outward. The latter effect resulting
from his supporting its weight with his hands at those two opposite
points, is intelligible enough. But why should it have thus bent or
half-curled inward and upward along the whole circuit of its edge ? And
when you peer into it, and pass your finger along it inside, you do not find
that rim or edge to present a continuous neat and smooth surface,
whether square-cut or rounded, but it is rough, ragged, jagged, so to
speak. Was the materialised breast a mere shell, not much more than
skin-deep, with no interior “ matter ” from breast to back, being all that
was needed for the object in view ? And did the paraffin then deposit
and encrust itself on that narrow rim or edge, and a little above it on
the inside, as well as over the whole outside ? And was the materialisa¬
tion of that lower outskirt neglected, left incomplete ? If we should
plunge in this way the upper part of a dead body, or of a marble or
plaster one, and then get them out of the mould by cutting it out in
the former case, or boring and pulverising and picking and scooping in
the latter (and both these operations are conceivable), it is evident that
the mould, so far as the depth to which the dipping should have been
made, would be continuously flat and fitted to the surface on which it
had been formed by deposition. Is there anything in the process of
stiffening by cooling which should impress upon the edge a tendency to
warp or curve upward and inward ? And explain, otherwise than as I
have interrogatively supposed, this curious circumstance of the inward
and upward curving of the rough and jagged edge, except at the two
points at which the upward curving is outward, not inward, those being
the two extreme points at which it was held, while the stuff was still soft,
by the two hands of John King when he showed it to us ? And, by the
way, I may mention that when he did so he turned it about a little, so
as to show it to us in different aspects; front view, and then this side
and then that—accompanied by our exclamations, not only of admira¬
tion, and of thanks to him and to Glaucus, but of gratitude to God for
what we had been thus permitted to witness. And remember that
before he began Glaucus had seemed to invoke the divine blessing on
the operation about to take place, by making a large sign of the cross
46
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 27, 1877.
with great solemnity, with John King’s light, which he held in his hand j
—thus, as it were, striking the keynote of the whole proceeding. This ij
may not prevent some of our Jesuit and semi-Jesuit friends from regard- |)
ing the whole thing as of Satan, Satanic ; that being their theory of the I}
whole matter. But we know better. And they will know better, sooner or : \
later, as Archbishop Hughes soon learned in the next life. !)
One little incident, so characteristic of John King. Before we began 11
I had been talking in French with M. Levoff, relating to him a long- js
past incident with John King, in which he and I had differed, and had |)
had one of our occasional little friendly scrimmages, which always wind i (
up all the more affectionately famantium tree). It referred to an \)
occasion last summer when, after splendid materialisations of six or j)
eight spirits, I had proposed to the Count to search the cabinet and the j <
medium, before reawakening him; not from any doubt or distrust on js
my part, but for the sole and friendly object of being able to record the j)
fact for the fuller satisfaction of yourself and your readers. John had !(
not rightly understood my meaning and motive, and got very angry at K |
me, regarding it as a “ mean and dastardly suggestion” which he was |) ]
“ amazed to hear from me.” I had got a little angry back, but explana- j( i
tion had soon set the row all right. I had told him that he “apologised K j
like a true gentleman.” He had disavowed having “ apologised,” while j) j
I had received it as such in effect. This was the incident I had related 1(1
to M. Levoff, while waiting for the arrival of the Count and Countess, m
As soon as the seance began, John said that I had been talking about j)
him to “ M. Wolf” (as he calls M. Levoff), and wanted to know what I \l
had said, and what I had said about apologies. (He had caught the
French word apotoffie). I had to tell him, very summarily. He again j)
disclaimed having “apologised.” I gave him the soft answer that |\|
turneth aside wrath, and said that, anyhow, I apologised to him. Well, I) I
while the dipping was going on, and after I had been splashed with the i(-
hot paraffin, I felt a little dash of cold water upon me, on face and K
breast, and John said ; "Dear old friend John, I thought Fd pay you j)
off a little. It was only a little baptism. And it was holy water; j/
Glaucus' head had been in it.” “ Yes, indeed, John, that made it true I)
holy water, indeed, and I am glad to receive its baptism.” Immediately |;
I felt his two hands on my head, patting it and pressing it tenderly on j|
both sides. This while the dipping was going on, in the brief interval j (
between two dippings. I mention this little incident as very charac- | j!
teristic of the good and sweet and affectionate nature of John King, j j
with a touch of humour. j j i
The reason of the long interval of time since the first complete head l)l
obtained (June 26th) and that of this evening (July 14th) is this : John j( [
at first put off for a week the renewal of the “great effort.” Then jj)
followed a long course of experimentation by the Count with paraffin, flj
stearine, and wax, separately and in various combinations, with a view to || j
getting a substance which would hold stiff and firm in the moulds, ||
without yielding and falling out of shape under the heat of the season, j) j
At last he reached the conclusion that nothing satisfactory could be done \\j
with the old paraffin, which was of poor quality, and it was discarded jj
altogether (150 lbs. of it), as fit only for candles for Mrs. Firman’s little j(
household. A fresh supply of better was ordered, this time of amorphous I j
paraffin, which melts at sixty deg. Cent., while the other, which jj
crystallises, melts at forty-three deg. There was great delay in getting j)
this, in spite of (promises, from the chemical works at St. Denis. We I)
then had it two days all in readiness, but the bad condition of the jj
atmosphere hindered the attempt; John each time adjourning it with |j
expressions of great regret for our disappointment. He directed an j
evening seance, at which he would make the effort anyhow, though the j j j
weather was still far from good. He did it with G-laucus instead of In
Alexandrine, because the latter was not quite up to the mark, in the i)
conditions of ability, while the former had been “ a good while preparing j j
for it.” How splendid the result has been, you know. There is a very j
small admixture of wax (two per cent.) with the paraffin—ij
amorphous paraffin, let it be remembered by those who, I take it for j j
granted, will work to reproduce this beautiful operation for themselves, j (
in America as well as in England. The temperature of the liquid was jj
about seventy deg. (158 deg. Fahr). ‘ jj
In reference to the photograph your Association has received of the j
first head obtained of—Angela, I will call that spirit, for the convenience j j
of a name (nor could I adopt a more suitable one), I beg you to observe j)
that, beautiful as is the cast of which you have those photographs, it is i
not quite perfect. The mould evidently yielded a little, falling in a jj
little, pinching a little part of the bridge of the nose, and sharpening jj
that feature a little. The next one, taken with the better material, will ij
be the definitive one, and will be, no doubt, more complete as to j
shoulders and bust, for she has promised to show on it the cross given j j
her by the Count, as she often shows it when she appears in form. jj
I will mention a pretty and interesting point about this head of j j j
Angela. You know we had before, of her, two face moulds, the one to j j j
the middle of the cheeks, the other to behind the ears. They all jjj
present, of course, the same lovely face, but in the last one (the entire j j I
head) the lips are a little more parted than in the former two, so that i ) j
when closely looked at in profile we can see the square edge of the j j j
delicate little teeth behind the upper lip, which is not the case in the j j j
former. I believe in the next she intends (according to the Count’s j j j
desire) to dip with her eyes closed, instead of open, as hitherto. She jj i
has said that she had wished to look “ like a statue.” And the heat of jj j
nearly the boiling point of water (194 deg.), did not incommode her j)j
open eyes. . . ; iji'
In the above account of the formation of the mould of Glaucus, I may j j j
add that that innocent and good little Mrs. Firman, who is clairvoyant jjj
when in the abnormal sleep,who then often in a low voice tells the Count j j!
(seated next to her) what she is seeing, though she generally remembers ij j
nothing of it when reawakened by being demesmerised, told him how she j j
saw the whole process that was going on, though we knew it only by the j j j
frequent sound of the dippings, and then in a few minutes by the result, jj | .
She was, as is often the case, half asleep. i f|| “
If any readers should be absurd enough to imagine that Firman might
have carried that large snow-white mould of Glaucus ready-made into
the cabinet (striking us all blind so that we could not see it), and then
produced it afterwards as having been then and there made (and I know
no limits to the capacity of some of our adversaries in powers of
absurdity), allow me to mention to them that we found at the close that
the liquid paraffin had descended about a couple of inches of level in
the barrel, representing the quantity consumed. Did Firman drink it ?
“ Possibly,” some of them are capable of answering. Then he must
have a vast capacity both of swallow and of stowage for hot drinks of
waxy grease at 154 deg. Fahrenheit.
July 17.—The mould of the head of Alexandrine given last evening
was a failure, or rather first a success and then a failure. It was beau¬
tiful and perfect, apparently, as shown to us after completion, but before
the withdrawal or dematerialisation of the head out of it. But after¬
wards, somehow or other, it got distorted, and so disfigured and spoiled.
You shall see a photograph of it. The mould itself, disfigured as it is,
will go to Russia with its owner, the brother of Alexandrine, M. Levoff,
a distinguished and complete gentleman of St. Petersburg. We have
our various theories and speculations as to how this came about in the
interval between the time when we saw it perfect (before the head was
withdrawn out of it), and soon after found it (the empty mould) floating
in the water spoiled. I have no time to state them now, with the de¬
velopments they would need to make them intelligible. John King writes
that he does not know how this result was produced. He only knows
that the mould was all right when he deposited it in M. Levoff’s hands.
Another one is to be made for him very soon, or next Thursday evening,
if possible. Meanwhile John King tells him to keep this as a
“curiosity.” And a curiosity indeed it is, as a “proof palpable” and
visible. You can see fully all the inside of it, features, curls of hair,
&c., all in unbroken continuity, and all that inside has necessarily passed
out of the neck. I am not sure that it is not better thus. A perfect
mould would have been cast in plaster or alabaster, and then necessarily
destroyed in getting it off. This spoiled one remains as an empty shell
mould, while a better one will be given from which to take the cast in
alabaster. If the spirits would give us two twin perfect ones, the one
to cast from and the other to keep, it would be better; but the next best
is to have just what we now have, viz., a distorted one to keep (dis¬
torted, yet perhaps all be better as a piece of proof), while a better
one is promised for the purposes of the plasterer.
I could relate various interesting incidents, which have occurred of
late, at our ordinary seances. I have already told how my mother
(well visible), had stretched forth her hand and taken away my carte de
visite photograph, before my eyes, from the table on which I had laid it
just in front of me. She has since taken away, to keep it company, that
of another person, scarcely, if it at all, less dear to her. John King
has also taken off, receiving it visibly in his hand, that of the Count,
attached to a long blue ribbon, for hanging it round his neck. He had
asked for it, and several times asked when he was going to get it. He
has since shown it several times suspended from his neck. Alexandrine
having expressed a wish for some souvenir gift from her brother, he pro¬
posed to her his photograph in a locket with a chain, which highly
pleased her. He accordingly brought three photographs for her to
choose from. She selected one, and returned the other two. The
chosen one was handed to the Count to be put into a locket, the other
two handed back to M. Levoff. That gentleman having offered one of
his to John King, and the offer having been gladly welcomed (that of the
Count is the one he wears), I said that I had not ventured to intrude
mine upon him, but that it was of course at his disposal if he kept such
things, and cared to have it. “ Try me,” was all his answer. Alex¬
andrine has several times shown beautifully to her brother, and touched
his forehead with hers, once clearly and brightly side by side with John
King. She carried off, with soft and tender little fingers, from the table
where he had laid it, and when the Count was holding it, the Russian
image and chain above mentioned, &c., &c., &e. I do not dwell on
these minor matters, interesting as many have been, because neither
have you space nor I time, and because the matter now specially in
hand is that indicated by the heading to this letter.
22«c? July.—I have told you how the preceding moulds of “ Alexan¬
drine ” turned out failures, owing to the yielding or sinking in of the
paraffin. Possibly in regard to the last one (head and bust), there
may have been some other cause. We are somewhat divided in
opinion about it, and John King says that he does not know how it
came about, but that it left his hands in good condition. We found
it afterwards badly and sadly distorted. But such as it is it has gone
to St. Petersburg, carefully packed, to remain as a proof palpable of
the fact of a head having necessarily been once inside of it, and of
having got out through the neck orifice. That failure is scarcely to
be regretted, since it leads to the permanent preservation of a mould
which, if it had been perfect, would have been destroyed in taking a
plaster cast from it. I will not dwell further upon it. Another one
was given the evening before last; this time successful. Your reading-
room will receive by this post (from M. Levoff, Alexandrine’s brother),
two photographs of it, one of them horizontal, face downwards, with
neck orifice towards the spectator, who looks through it into the hollow
of the head. In the photograph that hollow inside shows all black;
in the white mould itself all the converse hollows and curves formed
by the hair and features are clearly seen. But you will observe on
the left side of the bust a curious thing—a very curious thing in
reference to all speculation on the process, the modus operandi of
dematerialisation, about which I beg leave to refer back to my letter
in your number of 13 th inst. On the right side of the bust the skin surface
is all smooth and natural, as might be expected. Baton the other (the left),
it is all rough, confused, wavy, ridgy, and in two or three places showing
traces of assort of eddying action. It reminded me somewhat of photographic
views of some parts of the disk of the moon. If the materialised form had
at that part, at the moment of getting withdrawn or dematerialised away
July 27, 1877.
THE S PI KIT UAL 1ST.
47
from the mould, stuck or adhered more or less to the soft hot paraffin de- |
posited on it, and had not come off in clean smooth continuity of sur- |
face, and if there had been some sort of billowy, tossing, eddying, un- j
accountable fluent or semi-fluent action in it, or pulling up the soft hot j <
paraffin surface before getting detached from it, I could imagine how it |
might have left just such an impress as we do find on that side of the |
mould, and as you will see partly exhibited in the photograph. The
stuff being so white and translucent does not cast such shadows as to show j
this well in the photograph. Still you will see something of it, especially |
with the aid of a magnifying glass. The mould goes w’ith its owner, M.
Levoff, to St. Petersburg to-morrow, filled with alabaster, for safety in the
carriage, and destined to be cut or torn off after arrival, leaving the cast,
' from which other casts may be hereafter reproduced. In the course of
some weeks I hope casts of it will return to you as well as to us. And
when you see it, remember that John King (before the seance was oyer,
but after the head had been withdrawn from the mould), said that the
weather being bad, they had only been able to dematerialise imperfectly
on one side. This imperfectly dematerialised part would seem to have I
stuck more or less to the paraffin, and left on the interior of the mould j
this visible and palpable record of that operation ! When we came to
study and discuss it this morning, the first idea was to rectify that side |
of the bust in the casting by smoothing down the surface of the alabaster j
or plaster, so as to make it correspond with the other side for the sake of j
harmony and beauty in the bust. But we all soon united in the con- j
elusion that it should be left in the cast exactly as it is, as one of the |
small (but none the less important) facts tending to build up inductively j.
some philosophy of this strange thing,—I do not say the materialisa- j
tion, but at least its converse dematerialisation.
Another curious small fact (if there is such a thing as a small fact in
these matters) was this. In the broad cold-water basin the Count !
found floating two quite large pieces of the paraffin (as large as big
slates, nay, even longer), the upper sides of which were all in strangely
confused folds, or wavings, or roughnesses of surface. To get them out I
of the way of the floating empty mould, he took them out of the basin j
and laid them on the floor. John King said, “ Don't put them on the
floor” Presuming that that meant that the pure white stuff would get
dirty there, the Count picked them up and unreflectingly threw them j
back into the vessel of hot melted paraffin, where they soon melted away.
John told him that these were left by imperfect dematerialisation. How,
I do not pretend to say. Where they left by drapery on which paraffin
had got deposited ? or by parts of the bust below those which were per- j
fectly dematerialised ? Who knows ? The Count regretted to have thus j
destroyed them,"and if that phenomenon ever reappears to us, we will j..
carefully preserve them, and perpetuate such mysterious broken-off | |
pieces in plaster or alabaster. I |
The dipping night before last was much slower, more deliberate and | |
protracted than before. There were seven dippings into the paraffin, to | ] |
say nothing of the cold-water dippings, and a good deal of subsequent j j
copious pouring of paraffin by John King upon the outside of the mould j j
besides, to thicken and strengthen it. There was no splashing this time. |
A little of this pouring has trickled in drops into the inside on the j |
smooth and perfect right side of the bust. The hair is gathered-up |
behind, as in the bust of “ Angela.” And the long curl hanging down j
on the.right side in the first two face-moulds of Alexandrine, from the j
head to the shoulder, has disappeared. The antique image medal and j
chain, which were sharply marked in the preceding spoiled mould, do |
not appear in this, though on the day before expressly asked for and j
taken, with a view to being worn on this occasion. There was no j
power it seems this time to be wasted on unimportant accessories. The j
great object was to get a good head and bust mould, as there had been j
before nothing but failures. John did not even show his light, except at j
the close to show the completed mould, as has been related of the former j
occasions. This antique medal was returned to its owner by the spirit, j
who had only borrowed it for the occasion, but the gold chain to which | j
it was attached was retained by her (by his request) to serve for another
medallion containing his photograph, which he gave her, and which she
took from his hand. I was compulsorily absent on this occasion, and
have given this account of it from the reports of the Count and M.
Levoff, and our combined examination and discussions over the mould
the next morning. {
Both on this and the previous occasion John King, knowing that we
were going to take the mould straight to a photographer’s, told us to
take the medium (Firman) too, and let his hand rest alongside of the |
mould. He said he wanted to “ try something”—what he did not say. j
We conjecture that it may have been an experiment of his in spirit- |
photography, and we had some fancy and hope that we might possibly i)
see the shadowy form of Alexandrine or himself come out on to negative, j j
But nothing of the kind took place. Perhaps further perseverance might j |
develops it, which would startle a little one of the fashionable photo- j j
graphers of the Boulevards. j) j
We thus have now three good busts, besides the face-moulds first i)i
obtained, namely, those of “ Angela,” “ Glaucus,” and “ Alexandrine.” j |
Eight more have been promised, besides another more perfect one of 111
“ Angela,” in whose present one (of which you have photographs) there !) |
exists a slight defect, resulting from the casting. 11!
M. Levoff is a wealthy and distinguished gentleman of Moscow. He jij
has just organised at St. Petersburg a hospital of 250 beds. His sister, |)|
Alexandrine, died about 30 years ago. John King took a cordial leave in
of him, with a vigorous hand-shaking.
He left early this morning, via Berlin, very happy to carry with him j)!
his beautiful sister’s bust, and he is due at St. Petersburg in about 72 ] J |
hours. His sister wrote that she would accompany him on his journey, i J
and endeavour to make her presence sensible to him in the train, and ]) i
that therefore she would not be with us again till Wednesday. iji
Apropos of such travelling, I may mention that about a week ago John | j!
King, not being present at the usual hour of our seance, and we having j {i
waited some time, Alexandrine wrote (through her brother’s hand) that id
| he was “in America with some very good people;” but that “ she would
i go for him.” In a few minutes they were both back. I wish I could
j get back to California so quick, and so cheaply.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
2, Rue Solferino, Paris.  
SEANCES IN MALVEEN.
Sir,—The first materialisation seance that I ever attended was held
i in Malvern, with Willie Eglinton as medium. A cabinet was impro-
| vised by hanging two shawls before a window recess. Behind these
! Willie sat in an arm-chair. We had the light of one candle, shaded a
I little by Dr. Nichols’ hand. Our number was seven, including the
j medium—Dr. Nichols, Mrs. Nichols, and four of our students, the
eldest of whom was fifty-three, and the youngest twenty-five. All
seemed to possess the true requisites for honest and careful inquiry.
Our relation to each other was especially harmonic.
The first person who appeared was an infant, apparently about two
years old. The curtains formed from the shawls were apart, and the
child stood in front of Willie, and very near him. This form soon
disappeared, and another came and walked firmly before the curtains,
which were now closed. This was a young Indian girl, who seemed
about thirteen years old; she is called “Daisy,” and is as well-known
to Willie Eglinton and his friends as Joey and Ernest. I said, “ I
wish she would come to me.” I was sitting on a sofa, a little removed
from the wall. She came to the back of the sofa, and stood there, a
profusion of white drapery falling around her. She took my hand and
audibly kissed it; the hand was warm and soft; she said in a low, but
distinct voice, “ I love you. I love the hand that gives.”
Her face was broad, and her features were those of the Red Indian of
my country, many of whom I have seen. The drapery had a hard
feeling, though it was in appearance diaphonous muslin; I felt it as
distinctly as possible. When Daisy disappeared, we were requested
to extinguish the light. We did so, and soon we saw the head of a
man, lighted up by a lamp, held under the chin; we saw nothing of
the form, except the head, and a rather long, grey beard. The head
came close to my face, and the dark eyes looked steadily into mine. I
was awed, and distressed by a sight so strange, and I begged the person
to go away from me. The head went to a lady on the other side of the
room, and kissed her forehead; she said it belonged to her husband, who
had been four years deceased. After this we were again allowed our
candle ; it lighted the room pretty well. Presently the head appeared
again on a solid-seeming form. The man was clothed in close-fitting
white trousers and jacket, with no drapery; he went to a centre table
and moved it forward, as if to show that he could do so, and he remained
standing with his hands upon it. His wife sat on one side of the room,
and I on the other. He again came to me and looked into my eyes,
with his face very near to mine; his eyes seemed to pierce me. I begged
him to go away. He went over to his wife at my request, and again
kissed her. After some minutes he went to the cabinet, put aside the
curtains, entered, and we saw him no more.
A day or two after this seance I was in Willie’s room, when I heard
raps about on the furniture. I put my hand on a small table near
Willie, on which he laid his hand. The raps called for the alphabet,
and I was told that Dr. J. B. Ferguson wished to hold a seance with
Willie and me, when he would materialise. In his earth-life he was our
very dear and intimate friend. We arranged a seance as before, with
two shawls for a cabinet opening as curtains.
I had said, after the first seance, that I wished to see the medium and
one of the forms together. It was daytime, and we excluded the light,
so that the room was pretty dark ; we could see forms distinctly, but
not features. Soon a tall man appeared. One of the ladies who sat
beside me said she thought it was her husband, who was three inches
over six feet in height in his lifetime. She had never seen materialisa¬
tions, and the dim light made her uncertain of the identity, though the
form was like. On the expression of her doubt the form crossed the
room to a front window; he raised the curtain, and let the light of day
fall full upon him ; the wife recognised him perfectly, and we were all
entirely satisfied. After thus showing himself, and bowing gracefully
several times, he stood in front of us, and slowly dematerialised, till
there remained about twelve inches above his feet; this seemed to snap
out at once, and all was gone.
We were now allowed light enough to see the forms well. There
was a heavy, centre table, and easy chair before the sofa on which I
sat, between two ladies. My friend, Dr. Ferguson, now appeared, in
exactly his own form and manner—a tall, broad-chested man, very erect
and quick, and forcible in movement. He took up a large musical box,
wound it up, and laid it down heavily ; he then moved the very heavy
table away from before the sofa, and drew a heavy arm-chair up in
front of me. He sat down in it, so near that he almost touched me.
Every movement was in his own, old manner. He has been in the
spiritual world six years. He took my hand, but I felt sure he could
not speak. He was the dear friend of our daughter, who passed away
nearly twelve years since, when he was in this country with the
Davenport Brothers and Mr. Fay.
I said, “ Dr. Ferguson, is Willie here?” (our daughter’s name was
Wilhelmina, but we always called her Willie). He rose, and went
towards the cabinet, rapped three times, and disappeared. Our
daughter came forward from the place where he disappeared, a slight
girl clothed in white, her golden hair flowing over her shoulders. She
crossed the room, came close to me, and knelt before me ; she took my
hand, and audibly kissed it. She remained a little time kneeling, then
rose, and went towards the cabinet and disappeared.
Joey now came, and took a musical box and wound it up; he made
it go, and stop, at the word of command. He talked volubly ; he put
the musical box in my lap, and kissed the top of my head; he passed
from one to another, with cheerful words for all. After a time the
power became less, from the swinging open of the curtains of the
48
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 27, 1877.
improvised cabinet. Joey said, “ I want a pin.” He looked about the
room, and found a box of pins on the mantle-shelf; he took a pin,
remarking that he might not have power to pin the shawls together;
he, however, succeeded, still holding the box of pins in his hand.
“ I must put this box back again,” he said ; “ a place for everything,
and everything in its place. I like to see things tidy.” He crossed the
room, and laid the pin-box on the mantle-shelf. He then disappeared,
and the sonorous voice of Ernest was heard saying, “ Mrs. Nicholls,
you said you would like to see a form, and our medium at the same
time.”
“ I did say so,” I replied, “ but I have seen enough not to need such
a test.”
“But we wish to give it,” said Ernest.
After a brief interval the medium came from behind the curtains,
and stood before us, with a slight girl form beside him, that we were
told was the young Indian girl Daisy.
This was the last manifestation of the evening, except the full voice
of Ernest, saying, “ Good-bye and God bless you,” to each one of us.
Mary S. G. Nicholls.
Aldwyn Tower, Malvern.  
THE ROSICRUCIAN HYMN.
Sir,—Permit me to correct an imbroglio in the closing lines of the
first stanza of the Rosicrucian Hymn, printed in your last number.
Used originally at mystic celebrations, it was thought that perhaps it
might be adapted for singing at seances. The lines referred to should
run thus:—
“ The Patriarch sitting his tent before
With long beard hoar,
That waved in the gale
Which o’er lands still wet with the Flood did sail.”
An image anticipating Gray’s picture of the denouncing Bard, whose
beard
(l Streamed like a meteor in the troubled air.”
■   The Adapter.
HOW MUCH TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY ?
To the Editor of “ The Pall Mall Gazette.”
Sir,—Those of your readers who, either from curiosity or from love,
of antiquarian research, take an interest in the earliest human science,
will be grateful to you if you allow me to direct their attention to the
very remarkable position which will be assumed by the planets on the
13th of August next. As an astronomical phenomenon it is one of
extreme rarity; never, perhaps, exactly witnessed. before. According
to astrological interpretation, the menace of evil is overwhelming.
Saturn and Mars, both retrograde, are in close conjunction, within the
same degree of longitude, in 18 deg. Pisces. Yen us is in exact oppo¬
sition to these planets, in 17 Yirgo, in conjunction, within the orb of
5 deg., with Mercury. The sun is in conjunction with, or, as it is
termed, combust of, Uranus. Jupiter, also retrograde, is in square to
the two opposed conjunctions. It would be impossible for an astrologer
to invent a more portentous combination.
I do not wish, under any false colour, to insinuate in your columns
anything which I am not prepared to support in favour of or against
judicial astrology. Induced, in the first instance, by the respect which
every scholar must feel for that truly great man, Claudius Ptolemy, I
have given enough attention to the rules of the art during the last
twelve years to justify me in expressing an opinion. I consider the
pursuit to be, in the first place, unprofitable, and in the second mis¬
chievous, as tending to exert an extraordinary fascination on the mind,
and to produce a kind of feverish excitement. But on the other hand
I am bound to bear witness that my own experience of the study has
been much the same as that which the priests assured Astyages, ac¬
cording to Xenophon, was their experience of oracular prediction. I
have never set up a figure without finding an apt reference to the sub¬
ject proposed. Sometimes the indication thus obtained proved trivial,
sometimes important; but there was always something that looked
like an intelligent reply, whether in jest or in earnest. I do not argue
about it; I only state facts. My feeling as to the unwholesome cha¬
racter of the pursuit has been so strong that for years I have not
looked into an ephemeris. It was only a reference in some daily paper
to an approaching conjunction that led me to look for the facts I have
now stated, as I had before known of some remarkable coincidences
occurring as to the aspects of Mars and Saturn, the two great malefics,
as they are called. Perhaps it will be as well to add that I have never,
to my knowledge, spoken to an astrologer, but have derived all my
knowledge of the study from books and from actual work. Of course
an astrologer would connect the menacing aspect of the planetary
heavens with the war now raging in the East. Not having sunk my
books “ deeper than ever yet did plummet sound,” I did erect a figure
last night to see if any curious astrological indication would transpire
on the subject. What I found deserves attention from those who are
higher adepts than myself. Not having any precise reason for fixing
an hour, I took noon on the day when the ephemeris shows the closest
conjunction to occur. The sun then, of course, is in mid-heaven, and
is combust, as I have said, with the evil planet Uranus, whose parti¬
cular function is held to be to indicate unexpected and surprising mis¬
chief. The two chief malefics, Mars and Saturn, in close conjunction,
and both retrograde, indicate a maximum aggravation of the power of
evil. Venus, one of the benefics, is in her triplicity ; but as she is in
exact opposition to the malefics, there is not much good indication to
be derived from the fact. She is in semi-sextile to the moon, which is,
I think, the only feature in the figure that is not bad. The greater
benefic, Jupiter, is in his own house, but retrograde. His square to
both the conjunctions is an evil aspect, and although it is held that
any exact aspect of Jupiter, even the square, may be favourable, the
|;i curious part of the case is that there is no advantage shown to either
| (j of the contending parties by this planet.
i il The seventh degree of Scorpio is ascending. Mars, therefore, is lord
j )j of the ascendant; and, as we have seen, very evilly disposed. Turkey
i (j in Europe and Asia is astrologically said to be ruled by Yirgo ; Russia
HI by Aquarius. But in questions regarding the seventh house, to which
j war is allotted, and which are confessedly the most difficult in astrology,
i (i the lord of the ascendant denotes the querent, and also the attacking
!)| party, and the descendant the opposite. This rule would make Mars
j)l signify Russia, and Yenus Turkey; but the evil prognostics are so
m fairly balanced that it is impossible to assign a decisive advantage to
|)| either. The aspects of Mercury and the Moon to Yenus, however,
I; I may indicate advantage in the way of travel or of communication,
m which would be consistent with the cutting off the communications of
| (i the enemy, as by the rupture of the Danube bridge, or by a strategic
I j j movement. On the other hand, the evil position of Mars in the fourth
j (j house is such as to lead one to anticipate trouble to the assailants of
j) | fortifications, ditches, or strongholds. Perhaps you will not feel dis-
| H posed to give me space to go into further detail, and I will therefore
j (j save the time which it would consume. I hope I have said enough to
! )j show that there is a very curious sort of fitness between the indications
i) | of the planets, according to astrological rules, and the prospective state
j (j of things in the East. If we find obstinate and sanguinary battles to
| ) ensue next month, with no remarkable advantages to either party,
| although the balance of evil is against the invader, call me
i | “ Prospero.”
|(i J uly 13th.  i—
[ft AN APPARITION.
I) | To the Editor of “ The Daily Telegraph''
if] Sir,—I, with many others here, was very gratified to read your
HI excellent article on the case of Frances Isabella Stallard. Public
i) I opinion in this town is most decidedly in favour of the recommendation
III to mercy made by the jury, and petitions with that object for presenta-
!) I tion to the Home Secretary are being extensively signed throughout the
|(| island. Although, from the evidence, there seems no doubt that she
I (I was the immediate cause of the child’s death, still her state of mind at
|) | the time, and for some time previously, rendered her totally unaccount-
| (| able for her actions on that day. In a conversation I had with her
i:!f master on the subject this morning he informed me that there was
|| always, more or less, a strangeness in her manner, and that on the night
(I when she said her child appeared to her at the window he found two
(! large squares of glass broken in the kitchen—the place where she slept
) i —she having broken them to get to her child once more. This, with
| many other strange actions of a similar kind, surely goes to prove that
(! she was not responsible for the terrible crime charged against her, and
II that to hang her under these circumstances would be, as you so justly
(; describe it, nothing less than “judicial murder.” The execution of this
(j miserable girl of twenty is fixed for the 23rd inst., next Monday week;
)j and when we call to mind the case of Miss Edmonds, of Brighton, and
?! compare it with that of Frances Isabella Stallard, one cannot think for
( a moment that the clemency shown to the former will not be extended
) to the latter. T. Cavanagh, late Inspector of Policey
/ Great Scotland Yard, London.
i Ventnor, Isle of Wight, July 12th.
)! The West of England Free Press has inserted a letter by Mrs-
(i Boucher containing Dr. Slade’s offer to Professor Lankester, and Dr-
j Crowell’s refutation of Dr. Forbes Winslow’s alleged statistics.
(I Brighton.—On Sunday next, the 29th inst,, at Christ Church, New-
j! road (Rev. T. R. Dobson’s), the morning service will be conducted by
)i Mr. Alex. Calder, and the evening service by Mr. David H. Wilson,
| M.A., LL.M.
I Spiritualism in California.—Mr. T. P. Hinde, late of Darlin gton,
)| writes to us from Los Angeles, June 30th:—“Spiritualism in this
(i country is carried on in a common-place style—no sensation, no excite-
)! ment, no outward demonstration, little publicity ; in fact, a casual ob-
)j server would hardly discover its existence until he was in the very
(! midst of its converts.”
(j Mr. Gledstanes, in a letter from Merignac, Gironde, says that he
j has recovered from the effects of the accident, and is nearly in his
Si ordinary state of health. He does not wish anymore bulletins in The
[i Spiritualist, for, he states, “ I have had to answer letters from inquiring
Ji friends, and one telegram came in the middle of the night, asking
ij whether I was dead or alive.”
Ji The second edition of Professor Gregory’s work on Animal Magnetism
i! is now out, and is of high quality as regards printing and binding; it is
’j also the best work on mesmerism ever written in the English language ;
\\ and, considering the style in which it is now issued, is, we believe, the
11 cheapest book which has as"yet been published in this country in con-
'j nection with Spiritualism.
11 The clergyman of a secluded country church was accustomed, between
! the forenoon and afternoon sermons, to give out. a somewhat lengthy
!| psalm to be sung while he retired to the vestry to enjoy a smoke. On
one occasion, when the congregation had finished what had been given
out, the minister calmly opened the vestry door, and, looking gravely at
the precentor, said, in a not over audible tone—“ Tammas, sing ither
aucht lines, man; she’s gaun fine the noo.”
Mrs. Hume-Rothery has published some strong and authoritative
medical evidence about the alleged uselessness of vaccination. There
is equally strong evidence on the opposite side, and much larger in
| quantity, possibly because it may be the side of popular ignorance.
Medical authority is worthless when popularity is in question, as proved
| by the Lancet and some other medical journals having abused the
I physical facts and phenomena of Spiritualism, which the readers of
1 these pages know to be real and true.
July 27, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST-
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOT,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
^Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O,
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn ifrom
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Cd.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining tire author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6<L
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging 'the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.Q-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
BLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s,
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W."
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,‘,also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern. Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 15s. ,
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and -America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium nght. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anii-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spirit! and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and .the Spirit. 12mo.l
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw. the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s, od.; cheap edition,
7s. 0d, „
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 0d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 0d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s'. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6cL
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
. WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by CamiUe Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BV ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.” s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations .* . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „ III, „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IY. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. ,, V. „ . . . , .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis . . .76
i Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . ! . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Beligion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . ... .30
Morning Lectures . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) .... 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiiutuahst Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 o
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . 18 o
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China ito India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.AV Trim Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts .16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D.j LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams. Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the-Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 12 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . - . . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the originai
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . 10 6
GARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE.
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Ri#h; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
AMERICAN PAMPHLETS.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. Is.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. Is. 6d.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
Is,
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 6d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. Soiled, Is.
THE LIFE OF MARY WHITTEY, the Catholic
Medium, by A. B. Dorman, of Connecticut, is.
THE VOICE OF PRAYER, a Poem by W. S. Barlow.
6d.
NEW TESTAMENT MIRACLES AND MODERN
MIRACLES COMPARED, by J. H. Fowler. 2s.
PHILOSOPHY OF SPECIAL PROVIDENCES, A
Vision, by Andrew Jackson Davis. In paper wrapper, Is.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Bead, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of Instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O,
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST
July 27, 1877,
The great question of the day.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are wo to be left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the deafh of PEINOE
ALBERT THE HREAt AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
TNQUESTS. — A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quietly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of END'S FRUIT SALTthe information is
nvaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, END’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
. contain—a bottle of END'S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the JEOPARDY of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
I ENO’S fruit salt
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
must be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same '
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
Cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and MR.C.S., L A.C., London, writes:—
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being tbe only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
groat efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.” :
u 14, Rue de la Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says be never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PHARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX,
THE REALITY OF SPIRIT
PROVED FROM RECORDS AND WORKS ON THE
SUBJECT.
BY “M.A. (OXON.).”
Introductory Chapter.—The general aspect of the subject:
its many-sidedness. Certain broad views to be more par¬
ticularly illustrated in subsequent sections. The claims and
present position of Spiritualism.
SECTION 1.
Historical.—A retrospect of the history of the subject, illus¬
trated from Epes Sargent’s Planchette (reviewed), Mrs.
Hardinge Britten’s History of American Spiritualism,
Wallace’s Miracles and Modern Spiritualism. Howitt’s
History of the Supernatural, Shorter’s Two Worlds, Judge
Edmond’s Tracts.
SECTION II.
Scientific.—Dealing with some aspects of the phenomena of
Spiritualism in reference to theories and explanations that
have been given. Hudson Tuttle’s Arcana of Spiritualism,
(reviewed), Hare’s Spiritualism Scientifically Explained,
Crooke's llesearches, De. Morgan’s From Matter to Spirit.
SECTION III.
Phenomenal.—Dealing with published accounts of form-
manifestation, especially from Olcott’s People from the
Other World (reviewed), Epes Sargent’s Proof Palpable of
Immortality, Wolfe’s Startling Facts in Modern Spirit¬
ualism. I
SECTION IV.
Religious.—Showing the religious side of the subject as
brought out in Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modem
Spiritualism {reviewed), Dale Owen’s Address to the Clergy
in his Debateable Land, S. O. Hall’s Use qf Spiritualism.
SECTION V.
Clairvoyance.—Dealing with the inherent powers of the
incarnate human spirit, especially that of clear-seeing or
supersensuous perception, as exemplified in simple dear-
sight or psychometrically in Denton’s Soul of Things, and
Andrew J. Davis’s Magic Staff (reviewed), Cahagnet’s
Arcana de la vie Future.
SECTION VI.
Occultism.—Dealing further with certain occult powers of
the human spirit, and with phenomena attributable to them,
as shown in Art-Magic, Ghost-Land (reviewed), and further
illustrated by records of phenomena hitherto unpublished.
THE TRANS-CORPOREAL ACTION OF SPIRIT,
Especially during Sleep: Immediately Before, and at
the Time of Deaih: and under some Strong Passion
or Emotion.
[This will form a considerable section, distinct from the rest
of the book: and will include a large number of facts, new
and old, arranged on the principle of reference to their deter¬
mining cause, where such can be ascertained,]
NOTE.—The above scheme of the book of essays and
reviews previously announced, is a draft only, subject to any
alterations that may be deemed desirable. It is published
in compliance with a request from many sources for informa¬
tion as to the title and scope of the work. The title now
affixed explains what is intended. The scope of the work is
to notice some aspects of Spiritualism as they are presented in
the works of other authors; and so to point out and summarise
the best books on the subject.
Though the plan may be modified, it will not be substan¬
tially changed.
The sections which deal with the phenomenal and religious
aspects will be so arranged as not to trench on the works
announced for future publication—Spirit Teachings and
llesearches in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism.
M. A. OXON.
The volume will be published at 10s. The names of sub¬
scribers should be sent to F. Percival, 15, Conduit-street, W.
London, May, 1877.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found'in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of " the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developod physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tlltings or raps.
When motions of the table of sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? " Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ?” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to Hia Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition,
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Subscribers will be supplied with early
copies, in the rotation in which their orders and remittances
are sent. Copies may also be had bound in half calf, with
marbled edges, price 8s. 6d, per volume, post free.
G O NT ENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciouaness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in YariousWays—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV -.—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—dntro vision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions m
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—^Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—^Fascination Among
Animals — instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER iX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—^Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—^Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.-
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, -W.C.
Spntwalbt ILefosppr,
Established in 1869.
pHAEGE FOE ADVEETISEMENTS Half-a-
vA crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“The Spiritualist” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because if circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to he addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the) first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBOBN, W.C.,
respectfully announce that they execute AJLL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Avo
Maria-lane, London, E.Q,
