Registered as a Newspaper.
otf f^YdSo^oGUd^ir
#lb^st Kfojspptf tmmM% bH^ Sprxkalxsm xxt §nfam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246. Boule
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-streets CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 262. (VOL. XL—No. 9.) LONDON: FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
foments.
Some Phases of Mediumship. By M.A. (Oxon.)   ... 97
Devil Worship in India and Ceylon     99
Death. By Mary F. Davis „. ...  ' ... 100
The Influence of Diet    '...' ... '... 108
A Swiss “ Doppelganger." By A. J. Cranstoun 102
Apparition of a Deceased Relation at the Moment of Death.
By Hensleigh Wedgw&od, M.R.I.:—Narrative of Mrs.
Barford ... ... ... ...   ... 102
The Psychology of the Buddhists. By Baboo Pearychand
Mittra i      ... ... .103
Poetry:—Angel Voices—The Prediction  ... ... ... 104
Correspondence: —Seances in Malvern—Spiritualism in
Holland—The Temperature of the Head—The Theo¬
logical Condition of Edinburgh—Reincarnation—Ma¬
terialisation of Spirit Heads, No. 9—Astrology,
Destiny, and Prayer — Mesmerism — Mrs. Tappan-
Richmond’s Lectures—The Experiences of Inquirers
—Miss Martineau and-the Clairvoyant Emma—The
Trustworthiness of Spirit Messages  ...104
Paragraphs:—M. Aksakof in the Caucasus, 101.; Spirit¬
ualism in Oldham, 101; Presentation at Newcastle-on-
Tyne, 101; Miss Wood, 101; Spiritualism in Brighton,
101; Dr. Carpenter, 101; Healing Mediumship 108
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
nnHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JHJ oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United' Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. 0. E- Varley, O.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, E.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess' of
Caithness ;xHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, P.G.S.: Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet; the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.'); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Mariyat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof. Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. .White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. G.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A; Mrs. S. O. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T,
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles !(tJnited States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson.'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for September, 1877.
Wednesday, oth.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Saturday, 8th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 pm.
„ „ Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
Tuesday, l\th.—Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
- „ Council Meeting;, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, lith.—Seance Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 15th.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
Friday, Hist.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, T2nd.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
Wednesday, HGth.—House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, H8th.—Library Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 29£7i.—Trance Seance, Mr. Colville, at 4 p.m.
N.B.—Members of Council and of Committees are requested
to accept this notice, as the Monthly Agenda will not in future
be sent out to each member as hitherto.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
Thb object^ of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
.  H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
.15,' ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
  E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton
Rooms—53, Sigdon Road, Dalston Lane, Dalston,
London, E.
(Close to Hackney Downs Station, Great Eastern Railway,
and five minutes’ walk of Hackney Station, North London
Railway.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The tasi Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association , havei the privilege of attending, the public seances oi
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can he ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances." and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March; June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
DO YOUR OWN PRINTING AND FEEL SATISFIED.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
(As exhibited at the Oaxton celebration), is a self-inking one
and can easily be worked by a child of ten. Its work will
compare with that done on a £50 press. You will find it a
great source of interest and recreation, besides saving you
time and money. Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW
TO PRINT,” containing an abridged history of the art of
printing, instruction in printing, general catalogue of printing
materials, specimens of type, &c., &e., post free 13 stamps.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co., Patentees.
Show Rooms:—is, Liverpool Street, London, E.O.
Price from £3 to £9 10s.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-huildings, Chaneery-lane, W.O
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S,,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.   ■  
PADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be
obtained speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7.30.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the Duke’s Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of flsh. two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Mustek
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.
SOCIABLE EYENINGS.
Every Monday Evening throughout the year, at 8 p.m., at the
Langham Hail, Great Portland-street, for the benefit of Mrs.
Weldon’s Orphanage. The first Concert took place on Monday
evening, November 6, 1876.
Stalls (a limited number), 5s. each; centre seats, area (a
limited number), 2s. 6d. each. Admission, Is. Transferable
tickets, for a series of-three months: stalls, £2 2s.; centre
seats, area, £1 Is.; unreserved seats, 10s. 6d. Mrs. Weldon
earnestly solicits subscriptions, donations, or old clothes
towards the increase of her Orphanage, which she started
eight years ago, and which has, till now, been supported
entirely by herself. Mrs. Weldon has been obliged, for want
of a larger income, to refuse as many as five forsaken children
in one week. Tickets may he obtained, and subscriptions,
donations. &c., received by Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House
Tavistock-square, London, W.C.
Just published, price 4d.
CLAIRVOYANCE, by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualis
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
August 31, 1877,
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President'
Alexander Colder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square.West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Beriiard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Sirs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.TeI.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North. Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, GreenrStreet, Grosvenor-square, W.
H 'nywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.It.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place.'W.
Itogers, E. D., Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev.N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, E, A,,.24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H„ 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. VL, 1, Adam-street,.Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yaubrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd,’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, 11. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivlmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaisiow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, AI.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reiroers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Str'awbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redclifle-gardens, West Brompton,
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. MS, 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Walhousc, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. IT., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., L The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mxs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-squaro, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J, H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
Tbe Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksatof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bisclioffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Banca Fenzi. Florence, Italy,
err Constantin Delhaz, Singersttasse No. 7^ Vienna, Italy.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.8.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. J, M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstanes;Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Roy. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq.. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhui, Waitzner Boulevard., 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Ndhrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-streat, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiarii, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychoiogical Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gass.c, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Viscbnde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexlcana President—
Senbr Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
  dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
MR. J. W.- FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
. Hours—Twelve till Five.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 178, Rue St Honord,
Paris.
W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired)
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.O.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
pRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
VDT will be published as soon as Mrs. 'Weldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Wbolnor, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Oh. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the hook.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. ALLEN, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s. 6d^ cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition." This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrajed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich, London Spirii-
ualiit Office.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best hooks published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on tbe
Eubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London. 
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JL\l logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1 st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris, Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
MESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,.
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
ISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
71, Pocock-street, Blackfriars-road, London.
MR. J. HAWKINS, 11, Mount Pleasant,
East-road, City-road, Magnetic Healer, open to en¬
gagements to start seances and to develope mediums.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRIT¬
UALISTS.
MUSICAL BOX.—A fine Musical Box,
eight-aired, and in good condition, to he RAFFLED
FOR. Thirty-two shares at half-a-crown each. A few shares
still to he disposed of. Application to he made at once to the
Secretary, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. TheO ■
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300for Is., post free, or 500_/or Is. 6d, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,"
The food that we live on. in¬
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable at the Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPxlIR of
SCIENCE, by EPES SARGENT. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit -
ualism in its Phenomenal, Histosical, and Religious aspects .
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.8.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.• post free, 6£d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Yolujvie £Jeeyen. Kumber Kine.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST Slst, 1877.
SOME PHASES OF MEDIUMSHIP. j j
BY M. A. (OXON.) | ( i
The evidence for what is broadly known as the Spiritual I |
creed rests upon many bases, each having its own special j) |
weight, and fits own adaptability to special types of mind. | |
Phases of mediumship famish different phases of evidence, j
and it is useful to collate and compare these now and then, j j
and to see what they prove, and to what conclusions they ]l|
point. i |
The two things, be it observed,'are very different, and it is j
to the common practice of confounding presumptive evidence j j j
with proof that much of our weak argument is due. It is Hi
extremely difficulty to prove anything outside of mathematics; j j j
possibly it is impossible when we deal with the spirit, and jj j
the unseen, and the future. But, short of mathematical j | j
proof, there is moral certainty. We are morally certain of j j
many things that we cannot prove, and that we have not | |
subjected to personal test, that, for one or more of various j |
reasons, we cannot demonstrate. And on this we act I j \
throughout our lives. It is this position that I conceive to j !
be attainable in reference to the creed of Spiritualism. j j j
And this applies to that greatest crux of every intelligent j j j
Spiritualist, which is at the same time the most attractive j |
article in his creed—the Immortality of the human -spirit, j |
especially of his own departed friends, and so, by inference, j j
of himself. Here, again, there is some laxity in the use of Ml
terms. We c&xmoi prove Immortality—we can only establish j j
a more or less strong presumption of perpetuated life after j j i
physical death. And this presumption some, who have time j |
for study and opportunity (which all cannot get), and some I j
little logic in their heads (which all have not got), may carry j > ]
to the plane of moral certainty. It is well for Spiritualism, i j |
as popularly understood, that this is so; for it must be I j
admitted that the popular interest largely centres in the sel- j j
fish view ; and if one could prove that human kind do not i f
live and talk (even the nonsense that usually is talked) to us, j | j
most would turn aside with a shrug and say, <£ I want my | |
dead; not all these spirits,”—just as the lonely child left in j j j
the dark sticks its fingers into its eyes, and cries, “ I want j {
my ma!” j j
What light then has mediumship to throw upon this 11!
question ? In the popular estimation, much. A great deal, I j
however, must be ruled out on the score of enthusiasm, in- j | j
sufficient evidence, imperfect observation, and the like, be- ! j j
fore we get to the root of the matter. And when we do, in j j j
individual cases, get evidence that will bear investigation, I j
we should cherish it as a specimen to be collated with other j j j
specimens and preserved for reference. It seems to me that ! (j
another fallacy of constant recurrence in this subject is this. 111
Every case of identity is submitted to jealous sifting, and j j j
most rightly. But every case is received with a stare of sur- I j |
prise as if it were the first of all its race, as if no traveller j j |
had ever yet come back from the outre-tombe: as if this were j j j
a lonely phenomenon. Now this is a fallacy; for the weight j j j
of evidence is cumulative. The first case proves little; the j j
next more; the third more still, especially if the I j
observers have made independent records. So that when one j |
sane and capable observer steps forward and says, I have re- j j j
corded a hundred cases in which those called dead have com- ! j
municated to me evidence of their perpetuated identity, and. I y!
when, from another place, another says, and I too: and a m
third, and so on to a vast number, who give their own proofs, j > j
display their own reasons for belief; and when all this evi- m
dence is found to make for one conclusion—then the cumula- j | j
tive weight is so great that to ignore it is a very serious | |
fallacy. j j |
One great difficulty in presenting evidence of this kind to j j
the public is that it is impossible to publish names, facts, [ |
and dates m extenso, at least in many cases. The facts IP
refer to persons still living; or the dead have living friends
whose feelings must be respected. The medium would
object to vivisection and the friends to the post mortem
examination, which would be held by very rude inquirers.
I have now and again recorded cases such as that of Abraham
Florentine, and others, which the curious reader will find
incorporated in u Spirit Teachings,” which present strong
evidence of identity; and I know many more; I have
records of (I believe) at least a hundred. Many others must
have similar records, if their observations have been care¬
fully kept, and if their opportunities have been fairly large.
Most mediums, I believe, who do not waste their force in
the elementary phenomena which the lower class of spirits
delight in producing to the exclusion of all others, can get
such evidence with patience. But they must wait, and (in
most cases) they must be content to take what comes.
Earnest desire for the return of a particular individual
usually defeats its own object, and this a young observer has
to learn. u Expectant attention ” {pace Dr. Carpenter)
does ^manufacture the desired result. But patience, care¬
ful observation, and a passive mind do, in my experience,
produce their fruit.
I will record, with such precision as circumstances permit,
the facts which have led me into this train of thought. An
extraordinary severe strain of work left me a month ago, it
is necessary to premise, with the mental powers jaded and
used out, so that even to read a newspaper was irksome.
Consequently I removed from the whirl of London and the
excitement of its busy life to the peaceful quiet of the
country, and occupied myself in the busy idleness of doing
nothing. That is not much in my way, and at first nothing
but sheer inability to think kept me still. Soon, however,
rest began to do its beneficial work, and I experienced the
returning sensations of mental vigour. During all this time,
and for some weeks before, the objective evidences of me¬
diumship had been absent, save only for some remedial
processes, which are usual when I am out of health. But
now, as health was re-established, and the conditions of
quiet and rest permitted, there supervened a condition of
great lucidity. On ordinary occasions, in the press and
worry of daily occupations, the spiritual faculties with me
are dimmed. I see (if at all) £{ through a glass darkly,”
and have to test and try my sensations before they can be
accepted. Here there was none of that: the vision was
“ face to face,” and I found myself receiving its evidences
with the same unquestioning acceptance that I do the phe¬
nomena that surround me in the natural world. I look at
myself in the glass and accept the counterfeit presentment
without argument. I know, of course, that I am not there—
that the solidity is visual deception, and so on; but I
accept the working model and am content. So in the cases
of clairvoyant vision. The vision was so palpable that it
created no revulsion, no wonder, no questioning in my
mind.
The first of my cases occurred on August 18th inst. I
had returned from a three days’ absence to the house of
friends with whom I was staying. When I left, a friend of
the lady of the house was unwell. During my absence she
died very suddenly. When I entered the room I saw her
standing beside her friend—the lady whom I was visiting.
The disembodied phantom was as clear to my gaze as the
living person to whom I was talking. “ So Miss is
dead,” I said, forgetting that the good lady could not see
her ghostly visitant. “ Yes.” “ And buried,” I continued,
for the words sounded in my ear. “ Yes ; but how did you
know ?” Then I remembered, and turned the subject, for
my hostess would have fainted in horror had she known how
near to her her friend was. Strange! a few hours ago and
she would sit by the bedside and clasp the clammy hand, and
98
THE SPIKITUALIST,
August 31, 1877.
kiss the lips on which death already had set the seal of
silence: yet she would have screamed at the friend whose
self was by her, minus only that old and shabby body which
it had cast off. That is what “ I believe in the resurrection
of the body” has brought us to. I took careful note of the
dress, mien, and face of the ghost—I had never seen the
original body—and as occasion served I elicited from my
hostess a description which greatly tallied with my vision,
except in one point. The ghost wore a brooch of peculiar
make, which I could get no description of. On the follow¬
ing day, however, my hostess came back from her friend’s
house with the identical ornament in her hand. Her friend
had left it to her as a memento. She looked puzzled at me
—very; and I think she suspects something uncanny, for
she eyes me now and again as one would study a
phenomenon.
During the whole of that day I was in this state of
lucidity, and could see and converse with persons who were
as clear to my eye, and whose voices sounded as distinctly
to my ear as any that impinge on my natural organs of
sense. One special visitor of that day impressed me much.
He, too, was lately dead, and I made his acquaintance thus
for the first time, yet his form and features are as clear in
my mind as are those of the worthy clergyman who has just
done me the honour to call upon me and talk conventional
platitudes for half an hour. Here are facts which should
concern him ; yet I know full well (his face was enough !)
that if I had enlightened him on the matter he would have
bolted as from Old Scratch, and probably have thought it
necessary to purify himself somehow.
During this same day I was conscious of the presence^
rather than of the form of a spirit who tried to make itself
clear, but failed. This is a familiar fact to me; and I find
frequently that some try and never succeed, but go away
after fruitless efforts, or communicate through a medium-
spirit. In this case I watched the efforts of the spirit at
intervals during two days. The “ atmosphere ”—what shall
I call the sensation of a known presence without a recog¬
nised form ?—of the spirit seemed familiar, and I thought it
was, but did not know who it was until I was told by a
spirit-friend who gave me the name. It was that of an old
lady, a connexion of near friends of mine, and her husband
had been a frequent visitor to our circle when we used to
meet.at Dr. Speer’s. The figure never was very clear, as the
others had been, to my eyes, but the recognition was made
complete by some very touching communications made from
her. She had been a loving, simple soul who had lived out
all her days, and had dropped from this material plane after
a life as blameless and as innocent in its sincerity and
simplicity as most of us would desire to spend. Her husband
had been other in his nature, more material, more given to
hoarding wealth and to the things of this world. The union,
however, between the two natures seems to have been real.
And now the freed spirit found its delight in union with her
earthly husband, and the two rose together beyond the
atmosphere of earth in which one of them had been prisoned
so long.
The communications are too sacred to quote, and the
scanty details I have given are very meagre compared with
the reality. In all such cases experience is necessary in
order to realise the truth. It would be impossible to
convince me that I was under hallucination in these cases.
I should scout the notion of a personating spirit with scorn.
There was in all, and especially in the last cases, an essential j
character of truth, too subtle to be analysed, too fleeting to |
be fixed in print—that is, to one who has grasped it—the ne j
plus ultra of conviction. j
The phase of clairvoyance gradually passed, as it became j
necessary for me to return to work which pressed. I have j
had recurrent phases like it again and again, but they go j
when the stern work of life needs doing. We shall not get j
any persistent experience of this kind until the possessors of U
the gift are isolated, separated from contagious influences, j
removed from worldly cares, and treated as the ancients j
treated those through whom they gained their glimpses of !
the future. But much may be done by careful observation, |
when such is possible, especially by the medium himself j
fixipg his sensations, noting every small point—none is too j
small to be of import—and keeping exact record of all.
Above all, it is necessary, in the present stage of our
knowledge, to avoid dictating conditions in these experi¬
ments. That may sometimes be done in the investigation of
the physical phenomena, but not here. The conditions are
so delicate, they are so fugitive; we know so little that
observation prolonged and patient is the wise course.
Anxiety, we know, will upset the conditions at once ; hence,
possibly, so few personal friends return to a medium. Most
of those who come to me are strangers to me—persons whom
I never heard of. Some are apparently brought by my own
guardians to convince a stubborn scepticism of its shallow¬
ness ; some are attracted by a certain sympathy, some by
curiosity, some by a desire (seldom gratified) to be allowed
to get at their earthly friends; some come, as though they
were still in the flesh, as one might call on an acquaintance.
I will record such a case, not because it is peculiar, or be¬
cause it presents any features that mark it out for special
attention, but just because it is one of many, a typical case,
where there was no “expectant attention,” no scope for
“ unconscious cerebration,” no apparent object for deception.
Some six or seven years ago, when I first became acquainted
with the phenomena of Spiritualism, I had a friend who was
engaged in press work for one of the leading newspapers. I
was full of the subject, and I thought I would discuss it with
my friend. (I never had the conversion craze.) - He was un-
receptive and argumentative, and I did not make any im¬
pression on him other than to impress him with a conviction
of my sincerity and earnestness, and an entire disbelief in
the spiritual origin of my facts. One day we were walking
together, and rain came on. To avoid a wetting we took
refuge in a billiard room near at hand, and whiled away the
rainy hour with a game, discussing all the while. The pro¬
prietor was the only other person in the room, and he
showed some interest in what I was saying. He asked some
questions, and seemed rather frightened than otherwise. He
was a wine merchant, and gave me his card as I left, asking
for custom. From time to time I did purchase some goods
from him, and on perhaps half a dozen occasions exchanged
some words with him. He always asked me about Spirit¬
ualism. The last time I saw him he was ill, and said that
he was in the doctor’s hands, but was mending fast. I saw
no more of him, until sitting, alone, as my habit is, in my
study in the early morning, he appeared to my clairvoyant
eye. I was writing about transcorporeal action of spirit,
the double, and such phenomena, and I wondered much at
this apparition. I never thought for a moment that it was
anything but a double of the living man. For a time he
could not speak; but when he managed to make me hear,
he saluted me as he would have done in the flesh, calling
me Mr. , a name which he heard my friend use while
we were together in the billiard room. It was a name used
by him, and known, I am sure, to no one else except two or
three acquaintances. Yet this spirit used it quite naturally,
as he would have done in the flesh; though he knew my real
name well enough. I gradually inquired what brought him,
and learned that he had “ come to see me.” He was dead—
had died some two months ago at a place and address which
he gave me. He likewise told me his full name, the disease
which carried him off, and the date of his death. All these
facts were entirely outside of my knowledge. He died at a
watering place far away. His full name, disease (a peculiar
one), and death, were utterly unknown to me. I and some
friends verified them all, and found them literally exact.
Yet he seemed to have no special reason for coming, unless
it was to add his stone to the cairn of evidence. He did not
even say that he had discovered the truth of my faith, and
had come to confirm it. He came, and he went, and like
many another who has done the same, I have seen him no
more.
These are specimens of the facts that have set me
moralising. What do they go to prove ? What conclusion
am I justified in drawing from them ? Briefly, disembodied
intelligence. And not that only; but, perpetuated in¬
dividuality. Phenomenal facts, of which I have seen
shoals, are in my mind outside of a “ perhaps.” I do not
only believe, I know them ; and any number of counterfeits
(greatly as I deplore every one of them) would do nothing
to shake the weight of positive evidence. They have their
use,-which L admit gratefully, and in their place they per-
August 31, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 99
form valuable work; But they will not prove my case; j
and they ought to be but the stepping-stones to further |
knowledge. They will not do for my purpose, which is to |<
prove what is loosely called Immortality. I know them; j
but I do not knoww/tatf causes them. I have not interviewed |
“ the intelligent operator at the other end of the line.” I
(When I so say I allude to mere cases of physical pheno- j
mena when no information or name is given: not to cases |
like Florentine’s, where the facts were given through table j
movements entirely.) I do not look to such cases for the j
class of evidence I want. I believe it must be had on [j
another and higher plane, and after patient and laborious j?
search. It does not lie on the surface, and is not to be |j
gathered up like manna fresh sent from heaven. K
In my quest after this evidence I must part company with I?
many whom I should like to find myself in company with. |)
1. I must leave men like Professor Huxley, and the ||
large number of persons who say, quite sincerely, I don’t ||
care about all this. It does not interest me. I don’t want I
to listen to these idle words; and I really do not care j(
whether I live again or not. From these I must separate j?
in limine* I do care very much about the matter. I think j
it is the problem to which the interest of all others must K
yield. I want to live, to go on living, working, learning, in j
short, energising. And I very sincerely hope that Professor j
Huxley mil live again, in spite of himself, if need be. I I
should mourn the extinction of such n a particle of the I
Divine mind.” i
2. I must leave the man who finds himself unable to get j<
any evidence that will satisfy him, and who is therefore jj
always concerned with superficial phenomena, li ever learning j(
and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth.” ji
There are some minds, I fully believe, that are not con- p
structed to receive any such evidence as can be had on these |
matters. They must be left to grope, or to gain their |!
evidence elsewhere, or not to gain it at all. I have got what j|
I hold to be proof, such as is possible, such as I want. I v
will go forward.
3. Then I must leave those who indulge in mere logo- j
machy, hair-splitting, a curious questionings ” on superficial j
matters of no real moment. We may do that till we “fade j
into the infinite azure,” as Tyndall puts it, or, as his j
irreverent parodist translates it, “ till all is blue.” There is j
no end to mere war of words. Let us get on; having j
made sure of the fortresses behind us, let us progress.
4. Nor can I think that those who shout theological j
warnings about the Devil deserve any more heed. I do not |
believe it. I have talked with many and many a spirit,
good, bad, and indifferent; some who were what we call |
evil-livers; some who were what we call decent folks, to !
outward appearance (whited sepulchres, nevertheless) ; some |
who are happy, some who are not; but I have found no j
Devil yet. I have no fear of Bogie, and would leave him to j
frighten those whose hands first formed him. Spirits are I
very human; as a rule (which has its exceptions), they are j
men and women with the frailties, and passions, and pecu- j
Parities, and characteristics of their earth-life. They are I
just what they made themselves, and so they remain till j
they make themselves something else. They are neither j
gods nor devils.
5. One more class I leave, and that is those who beguile me j
with fantastic hypotheses, unproven and unprovable; cunning |
devisements of curious brains invented for the purpose of |
ignoring the plain explanation of facts and substituting some |
fine-drawn subtilty which is worthless unless proven, and i
which may be left alone until it rests on solid basis. I believe i
in plain explanations unless they can be disproven. The onus j
rests on those who reject them; and I have a firm belief that j
we are logically right in dismissing, or at least in relegating j
for future examination, hypotheses which rest on the airy j
basis of imagination. Eliphaz Levi, for instance, and a j
certain class of- occult writers, tell us that the astral spirit j
will maintain individual existence for some time and then !
be resolved into its elements, just as the physical body will j
moulder and be disintegrated at last. This Astral spirit,
they say, can communicate for awhile after bodily death,
make itself visible, and do, in effect, what we say spirits do. j
But it will be disintegrated soon, and you will hear us more j
oft. Well, this is theory. Why, we may ask, and when ? 1
I have had facts and statements, and have verified them too,
from spirits who have left this earth hundreds, in some cases
many hundreds, of years, and I have had similar statements
and facts from spirits that have gone thousands of years.
These rest on the same authority which I have found faithful
after reiterated proof, and, therefore, though I cannot verify
the statements from the lapse of time, I am entitled to pro¬
duce them as secondary evidence. This leads me to reject
such hypotheses at any rate for the present.
Leaving these alone then I wish to direct attention to the
facts, specimens of which I have adduced; to the cha¬
racteristics of their production; to the cumulative nature of the
evidence—only one side of which, be it remembered, is here
noticed—and to the conclusions logically deducible from them.
These facts, taken in their due and natural connection with
other facts bearing on the subject, seem to me to demon¬
strate :—
1. Unembodied intelligence.
2. Of a character that is human.
3. Maintaining the individuality of its earth life.
I must not dwell on arguments further; but I insist that
the facts are very numerous ; that their force is accumula-
lative; and while I cheerfully make large deductions for
enthusiasm, fraud, looseness in recording, and the like, and
while I also admit and believe that intelligence not human
is also at work, I nevertheless hold that man does in many
ascertainable instances live after his bodily death, and that
in that disembodied state he preserves his characteristic
individuality of mind.
I believe that this, logically, warrants me in arguing on
to the general canon of personal existence beyond the grave
for mankind en masse, though I am willing to admit excep¬
tions (which, by the way, prove the rule).
I believe that the agencies concerned in Spiritualism are
principally departed human beings, though I also believe
that some or many of the lower phenomena are caused by
beings who have not yet reached man’s plane of intelligence,
even as I hold most surely that some, who have progressed
far beyond it, do return to enlighten and instruct him.
With Professor De Morgan I admit that the spiritual ex¬
planation is “ ponderously difficult,” but I also insist that,
as the result of my own experience and reading, and after
long and careful study, the weight of evidence is, to my
mind, “ponderously” on its side.
DEVIL WORSHIP IN INDIA AND CEYLON.
Professor Monier Williams, in the course of a com¬
munication to the Times newspaper, says :—
“ Although a belief in devils, and homage to bhutas, or
spirits, of all kinds, is common all over India, yet what is
called 1 devil worship ’ is far more systematically practised
in the South of India and in Ceylon than in the North. And
the reason may be that as the invading Aryans advanced
towards Southern India, they found portions of it peopled
by wild aboriginal savages, whose behaviour and
aspect appeared to them to resemble that of devils.
The Aryan mind, therefore, naturally pictured to itself the
regions of the South as the chief resort and stronghold of
the demon race, and the dread of demoniacal agency became
more rooted in Southern India than in the North. Curiously
enough, too, it is commonly believed in Southern India
that every wicked man contributes by his death to
swell the ever-increasing ranks of devil legions. His evil
passions do not die with him; they are intensified, concen¬
trated, and perpetuated in the form of a malignant and mis¬
chievous spirit. Moreover, the god Siva is constantly con¬
nected with demoniacal agencies, either as superintending
and controlling them, or as himself possessing (especially in
the person of his wife Kali) all the fierceness and malignity
usually attributed to demons.
“ In fact, in the South of India (even more than in the
North) all evils, especially drought, blight, and diseases are
attributed to devils. When my fellow travellers and myself
were nearly dashed to pieces over a precipice the other day
by some restive horses on a ghat near Poona, we were told
that the road at this particular point was haunted by
devils, who often caused similar accidents, and we were given
to understand that we should have done well to conciliate
ioo
TttE SPIRITUALIST. 8 August 31, 1877.
Ganesa, son of the god Siva, and all his troops of evil
spirits, before starting. Of all gods Ganesa is, perhaps,
the most commonly conciliated, not because he is said to
bestow wisdom, but simply because he is believed to prevent
the obstacles and diseases caused by devils. Homage, in¬
deed, may be rendered to the good God, or Supreme Spirit
pervading the universe, but he is too absolutely perfect to be
the author of harm to any one, and does not need to be
appeased. Devils alone require propitiation. Happily, the
propitiating process is generally a simple one. It is usually
performed by offerings of food or other articles supposed to
be peculiarly acceptable to disembodied beings. For ex¬
ample, when a certain European, who was a terror to the
district in which he lived, died in the South of India, the
natives were in the constant habit of depositing brandy and
cigars on his tomb to propitiate his spirit, supposed to roam
about the neighbourhood in a restless manner and with evil
proclivities. The very same was done to secure the good
offices of the philanthropic spirit of a great European sports¬
man, who, when he was alive, delivered his district from the
ravages of tigers. Indeed, it ought to be mentioned that all
evil spirits are thought to be opposed by good ones, who, if
duly propitiated, make it their business to guard the inha¬
bitants of particular places from demoniacal intruders.
Each district, and even every village, has its guardian genius,
often called its mother. If smallpox or blight appear,
some mother (especially the one called Mari Amman) is
thought to be angry, and must be appeased by votive offer¬
ings. There are no less than 140 of these mothers in
Gujerat. There is also one very popular male god in
Southern India called Ayenar (Harihara), son of Siva and
Yishnu, to whom shrines in the fields are constantly erected.
A remarkable point is that these guardian spirits (especially
Ayenar) are supposed to delight in riding about the country
on horses. Hence the traveller just arrived from Europe is
startled and puzzled by apparitions of rudely-formed terra¬
cotta horses, often as large as life, placed by the peasantry
round rude' shrines in the middle of fields as acceptable
propitiatory offerings, or in the fulfilment of vows during
periods of sickness.
“.Another remarkable circumstance connected with the
dread of demoniacal agencies is the existence in the South
of India and Ceylon of professional exercisers and devil-
dancers. Exorcising is performed over persons supposed to
be possessed by demons in the form of diseases. The exer¬
ciser assumes a particular dress, goes through various antics,
mutters spells, and repeats incantations. Devil-dancing is
performed by persons who paint their faces, or put on
hideous masks, dress up in demoniacal costumes, and work
themselves up into a veritable frenzy by wild dances, cries,
and gesticulations. They are then thought to be actually
possessed by the spirits and to become, like Spiritualist
mediums, gifted with clairvoyance and a power of delivering
oracular and prophetic utterances on any matter about which
they may be questioned. There seems to be also an idea
that when smallpox, cholera, or similar pestilences are
exceptionally rife, exceptional measures must be taken to
draw off the malignant spirits, the supposed authors of the
plague, by tempting them to pass into these wild dancers
and so become dissipated. I myself witnessed in Ceylon
an extraordinary devil dance performed by three men who
were supposed to personate or represent different forms of
typhus fever.
“ With regard to Buddhism, although its importation
into Ceylon must have been effected to a great extent from
Southern India, where its images still occasionally do duty
as Hindu gods, yet it no longer exists there. In Ceylon it
is a cold, negative, undemonstrative, sleepy religion, con¬
trasting very remarkably with the showy, positive, and noisy
form of Hinduism prevalent on the other side of the Straits.
Its only worship consists in presenting flowers before images
and relic shrines of the extinct Buddha, and in meditating
on his virtues and on the advantages of doing nothing be¬
yond aiming at similar extinction.
“In times of sickness and calamity, the Singalese, having
no divine protector to appeal to, betake themselves, like the
Hindoos, to the appeasing of devils or to the worship of
idols borrowed from the Hindoo Pantheon, whose temples
often stand near their relic-dagobas. I myself saw several
|| such temples near the celebrated dagoba erected over
| Buddha’s eye-tooth at Kandy. As to the South Indian
| Mahomedans, they are, of course, worshippers of one God,
but I believe that even more than in the north they have
I made additions to the simplicity of Islam by the adoration
of pirs, or saints, by the veneration of relics, and by con-
; forming to Hindu customs and superstition. In the
Nizam’s territory alone homage is paid to hundreds of pirs.
| The great Aurangzib is buried near the tomb of a celebrated
| saint at Rozah, and crowds of pilgrims annually throng the
| shrine of a popular pir at Gulburga. In times of sickness
l I have seen the lower orders resort to Hindu deities,
I especially to the goddess of smallpox. By far the majority
| are like the Turks, Sunnis (not Shi’as), but from conversa-
| tion I had with several learned men, I feel convinced that
I they have no idea of acknowledging the Sultan of Con-
I stantinople as their spiritual head, and that the existence of
| sympathy between India and Turkey is a figment of political
1 agitators.”
DEATH.*
BY MARY P. DAVIS.
The truth about death never breaks upon us until the
t light of the spiritual universe shines into the deep darkness
| of the doubting mind. Until this higher revelation is given
j to the understanding, the outward fact of death strikes one
| with the awful force of Fate. By many it is regarded as a
“ mysterious act of Providence,” a shadow sent like a thun-
| derbolt from the throne of God, a punishment inflicted by a
| dread Power upon a sinful world, filling human habitations
| with sorrow and desolation. The stricken heart cries out:—
I shrink away from it, with unbelief
That thou, my sunshine and my light of life,
Art gone for ever out of touch and sight,
| Erom any recognition of my sense,
Into a black, impenetrable night.
This awfulness and desolation can be removed only by the
| light of truth which beams upon the world from the spiritual
i universe. Unless the inner life be unfolded, or the senses
| which we shall possess after death be opened this side of the
i grave, darkness and doubt fill the groping mind, and the
| bereaved heart is wrung with anguish. The physical senses
| cannot perceive spiritual realities, neither can the sense-
)j educated mind reason clearly concerning things spiritual.
| There must be some degree of awakening of the inner sensi-
! bilities before the individual can rise out of the overwhelming
| grief and gloom attendant on the mysterious wrenching from
| our grasp of the beloved ones whom we hold dearer than life.
I For the want of this interior awakening many suffering
|| hearts seek for a “sign,” through religious excitement or
I! through manifold marvels. But individual growth into
| spirituality should be first sought. We should aim to arise
i into that harmonious state—that oneness with the Divine
I nature which would make communion with the departed
| possible, and then we shall cease to crave such purely
i external methods of communication as now seem to threaten
| a lower tone to Spiritualism. May the pure white light out
v I of which this sacred Revelation came so permeate and possess
| our interior natures that the words of the poet who wrote of
| “ Presence ” may be our own:—
11 O nameless thing! which art and art not; spell,
I "Whose bond can bind the powers of the air,
Compelling them thy face to hide or bear.
O voice ! which, bringing not the faintest swell
Of sound, canst in the air so crowd and dwell
That all sounds die. O sight! which needst no share
Of sun, which sav’st blind eyes from their despair.
O touch ! which dost not touch, and yet canst tell
To waiting flesh, by thy caress complete,
The whole of love, till veins grow red with heat;
O life of life ! to which graves are not gii’t
With terror, and all death can bring no hurt.
O mystery of blessing ! never lift
Thy veil! our one inalienable gift!
The harmonial view of death can be obtained not from the
j “ night side ” but from the light side of Nature. From this
| spiritual summit we see
The stars go down to rise upon some fairer shore.
Our loved ones go through the change miscalled death,
* Extracted from Death mthe Light of the llarmonial Philosophy, New York i 1876.
August 31, 187?,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
101
leaving us desolate in the external life, but beyond we find | j
them all again, fair as immortal flowers blooming in the jlj
Garden of God. The smile which the departing spirit |j]
leaves on the pallid lips we love is a token of the trium- I
phant joy of which the expression would be :— \\
O death, where is thy sting ? j >
O grave, where is thy victory ? \\
The Rooms and Library of the National Association of Spiritualists | j
at 38, Great Russell-street, London, will be reopened on Monday next. I)
“ Saunders’s News Letter ’’ (Dublin) contains a favourable account I j
of a private stance ; the writer expresses his surprise “ that any one can !)
be found who thinks he knows all the mysteries this world contains, i j
or who thinks the elucidation of such facts unworthy of a philo- 0
sopher.” I
Mr. W. J. Colville has sent to Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage :—Sale of ]
photographs of Mrs. Weldon and Katie, 12s.; profit of sale on Mr. i
Gill’s drawings, 12s.; Mr. Coltman, £2 2s.; a Lady at Stockton, Is. 1
Dr. and Miss Slade, and Mr. and Miss Simmons are now at 61, Rue (
d’Arlon, Brussels. Mr. Riko, of the Hague, and some of the local
newspapers, printed the assertion's made at Bow-street by Messrs.
Maskelyne, Lankester, and Co.; but although members of the best
society in Holland and Belgium have had seances with Dr. Slade, the
said assertions have not been borne out by what the forewarned inves¬
tigators witnessed.
M. Aksakof in the Caucasus. — M. Aksakof writes to us as
follows:—“August 4th, 1877. I am now, and have been for the last
month, in the Caucasus, where I have been cured by mineral waters
near the town of Piatigorsk, after a four months’ attack of fever.
Although 3,000 kilometres from St. Petersburg, I have had the plea¬
sure of receiving The Spiritualist here regularly. I take much interest
in the development of the medial powers of Miss Katie Cook, also in j
the experiments of the Count de Bullet. At the beginning of Septem¬
ber I return to St. Petersburg.”
Spiritualism in Oldham.—Mr. E. W. Wallis, of London, has
delivered five public inspirational addresses in Oldham during the
past fortnight, and they are stated to have given general satisfaction.
Mr. Colville has also done much in the same way to promulgate a
knowledge of Spiritualism in Oldham. The last report of the Oldham
Pyschological Society contains the sensible remark that a local investi¬
gating committee should be established, to gain information about the
conditions of the occurrence and the nature of the phenomena. Some j
people recently questioned the genuineness of the mediumship of Mr. j
Quarmby, but the society passed a resolution expressing full confidence ['
in him. |
Presentation at Newcastle-on-Tyne.—The following paragraph j
was sent us too late for publication in due course :—“ On Wednesday |
evening, the 15th instant, a presentation was made by the members !
of the Newcastle Psychological Society to two of their oldest members, |
among some of the earliest workers in the cause in Newcastle, viz., Mr.
Wm. Armstrong and Mr. John Miller, the testimonial in each case con¬
sisting of a handsomely mounted walnut writing desk, in the centre j
being a plate, on which was engraved a suitable inscription recording
the event. Mr. John Mould, president, was in the chair, and made the
presentation. Several members addressed the audience, amongst whom
were Messrs. John Hare, W. C. Robson, H. A. Kersey, F. Pickup, and
J. Haydock. All united in testifying to the good, patient, and persistent |
labours, ultimately crowned with success, of Messrs. Armstrong and
Miller. These gentlemen returned thanks in feeling terms. Miss Fair-
lamb, under control, gave a message from the spirit-land, which greatly j j
added to the harmony of the evening. In conclusion, Mr. Colville’s j (
guides gave a short address and poem suitable to the occasion, and ] i
thus terminated a very agreeable evening, which all present appeared j ]
to have enjoyed.” i (
Miss Wood.—The Blackburn Times of August lllh says that Miss j ]
Wood, the medium, has been caught acting a spirit, dressed in white j i
raiment; a man who thought the whole affair suspicious seized her in |1
the dark. She alleged that she was an unconscious instrument in the ! \
hands of an evil spirit. The persons who ought to be able to decide ! i
this point are those who, in the words of the newspaper report, tied her j1
“ more or less securely to a chair.” If they tied her securely, and she i \
was freed by abnormal influence, as mediums very often are, they ought j1
to testify to the same; if she was tied insecurely, those who fastened her j1
are greatly to blame for the non-performance of a duty left in their i (
hands by the rest of the company. But whether the medium was pre- j <
sented as a spirit with or without her own knowledge, there was J
imposture somewhere, and its exposure is a public benefit. Miss Wood j (
is a very strong medium, and can obtain phenomena under stringent ]'
test conditions. The theory of the nature of the sitters having an i]
influence over the character of the manifestations is true within certain |,
limits, but we have known spirits to try at a private circle to impose j <
upon the best friends of the medium, while the medium was perfectly : \
unconscious. The intelligence connected with very strong physical j,
manifestations is usually low. We shall be glad to see the time when j i
Spiritualists refuse to accept any but test manifestations from profes- j |
sional physical mediums when sitting for payment. If none but j<
absolute test manifestations are accepted they are soon produced, as was I <
the case with the Holmeses after their exposure in America. Manifesta- j j
tions in daylight, like those once obtained by Mrs. Mary Marshall, j<
ought to be more encouraged than the phenomena of dark seances. A | <
storng physical medium for daylight manifestations would do well in j,
England, !l
THE INFLUENCE OF DIET.
The following passages are part of a Presidential address delivered
at the soiree of the Vegetarian Society, held at Manchester a short time
ago, by Emeritus Professor F. W. Newman
We are practical people, out and out. We speak that which we
do know concerning stronger health, lighter anxiety, and heavier purses
for the many. We have abundant experience that our food is suffi¬
cient to produce the highest muscular strength. We know that it
conduces to sound digestion and good health; that it gives us clear
minds after a meal, and keeps us very little dependent on medical aid.
# # * # * #
In my belief—nay, in my experience — an individual who can
choose his own food will do best by making his change suddenly and
bravely. Be sure that you cannot starve while you get oats, barley
or wheat with the gluten in them; herewith, fruits, dry or baked,
will secure you abundant nourishment, and you will soon settle down
on new palatable dishes, if only you have a willing cook. That vege¬
tarian food is more digestible, more healthful, more conducive to lively
cheerful activity of mind and body, there is an almost universal testi¬
mony among us ; and as for children, I suppose you know how many
a sickly child of rich Scotch parents becomes strong when sent to live
on peasants’ fare under a country nurse. If you wish your children
to be sickly, feed them on flesh meat, and wine. This diet, vilely
called generous, has, alas ! been in fashion with well-paid physicians ;
but the tide is turning, and many are learning their mistake. Come,
join our company ; you will never repent of it. No longer give your
sanction to killing lambs and larks, and robbing us of the pleasure of
tame birds. No longer promote the cruel treatment of huge cattle.
Give up the practice on which cruel trade and cruel sport are founded,
and become healthier, richer, and more tender-hearted.
Dr. George Sexton will lecture next Sunday evening at St. George’s
Hall, Stonehouse, near Plymouth. During the meeting of the British
Association, Plymouth was placarded with large bills about his
approaching discourses.
On Sunday next Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a trance address in the
Freemasons’ Hall, Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne, in the evening,
at 6.30 ; subject, “ Death : Its Use and Object.” Monday, September
3rd, same hall, evening, at 7.30; subject to be chosen by the audience.
Wednesday, September 5th, same hall, evening, at eight, in aid of the
library funds of the Spiritualists’ Society.
A Canadian Spiritualist and non-professional writing medium called
on us last Wednesday, with a letter from Mr. Luther Colby, of Boston,
from which the following is an extract:—“ This note will introduce to
you Mr. Henry Lacroix, of Montreal, for many years a Customs’ officer
there. He visits the Old World in the interests of Spiritualism. He
has travelled extensively in the United States, and has visited nearly
every public medium in the land. He is himself a medium, on his way
to France.”
Spiritualism in Brighton.—Mr. W. J. Colville will deliver trance
addresses and poems in Brighton on Wednesday and Thursday, Sep¬
tember 5th and 6th, in the lecture room of the Town Hall; the sub¬
jects on both occasions will be chosen by the audience, and questions
will be answered at the close of the addresses. Admission free, but
there will be a collection to defray expenses. A few reserved seats are
provided on payment. The lecture room of the Town Hall is airy and
commodious, and will seat 800 persons on the ground floor. The
doors will be opened at 7.30 p.m.; meetings to commence at 8 o’clock.
Dr. Carpenter.—Mr. A. R. Wallace, in the course of bis recent
review in the Quarterly Journal of Science of Dr. Carpenter’s dealings
with Spiritualism and Mesmerism, says:—“Let us now summarise
briefly the results of our examination of Dr. Carpenter’s book. We
have given a few examples of how he has misrepresented the opinions of
those opposed to his theories. Although he professes to treat the sub¬
ject historically, we have shown how every particle of evidence is ig¬
nored which is too powerful to be explained away. As examples of this
we have referred, in more or less detail, to the denial by high authori¬
ties of the reality of painless surgical operation during the mesmeric
sleep ; to the report of the Royal Academie de Medecine, supporting the
reality of clairvoyance and the other higher phenomena of mesmerism ;
to experiments on clairvoyance, before French medical sceptics; to the
evidence of educated and scientific men in Vienna as to the truth of
Reichenbach’s observations; to the personal evidence of Robert
Houdin, Professor Gregory, Dr. Mayo, Dr. Haddock, Dr. Lee, Dr.
Ashburner, Dr. Rostan, Dr: Teste, and Dr. Esdaile, as to tests demon¬
strating the reality of clairvoyance; to the evidence of the Dialectical
Committee, of Dr. Lockhart Robertson, Serjeant Cox, Mr. Crookes, and
myself, as to motion of solid bodies demonstrably not caused by mus¬
cular action; to the evidence of the Dialectical Committee, of the Hon.
Robert Dale Owen, Mr, Crookes, and Professor Barrett, as to raps
demonstrably not caused by the muscles or tendons of the medium; to
the evidence of Mr. T. A. Trollope and myself as to the production of
flowers, demonstrably not brought by the medium, all of which evidence,
and everything analogous to it, is totally ignored by Dr. Carpenter. Again,
this work, professing to be scientific, and therefore accurate as to facts
and precise as to references, has been shown to be full of misstatements
and misrepresentations. In his article on ‘Fallacies of Testimony,*
Dr. Carpenter, quoting Schiller, says, that the ‘ real philosopher ’ is dis¬
tinguished from the ‘ trader in knowledge ’’ by his always loving truth
better than his system. If our readers will carefully weigh the facts
now laid before them, they will be able to decide how far Dr. Carpenter
himself belongs to the first or to the second of these categories,”
102
THE SPIKlTtiAIilST.
August 31, 1877.
A SWISS u DOPPELGANGER.”
BY A. J. CRANSTOUN. j
The following case occurred in the family of a well-known j
and most respectable physician of Lucerne, with whom I am j
personally very well acquainted! I shall call him Dr. X.
Some years ago two middle-aged sisters of Dr. X., one of i
whom is an undoubted medium, went to their brother’s i
house outside the town; on reaching a glass door, which j;
communicated with the part of the house they wished to |i
enter, they found the door locked, but saw through the glass |
their brother, without his coat, walking up to the door. i(
They immediately addressed him, asking him to open the h
door for them. He made no reply, but turned away, walked |
up the stairs, and disappeared. Both sisters saw him as !<
distinctly as they had ever seen him. Greatly astonished at j<
his not answering, or opening the door, they got into the j
house by another door, and immediately searched every room jj
in order to find their brother, but in vain, and the servants ij
declared that he was not in the house, having gone to the !>
country for a professional visit. Very uneasy at this ap- K
pearance, they waited with great anxiety for his return, j
which took place late in the evening, when they ascertained j
from him that he had not been in the house at the time of §
the occurrence. ||
The same evening, before his return, the two sisters were j
sitting in a room with his wife, awaiting his return, when jj
his wife grew suddenly excited, and declared that there was Ij
a man in the room, whom she supposed to be a robber; j
“thereupon a strict search was made all through the house, j
but no one was found. The sisters, fearing to annoy their j
brother, did not tell him what had occurred for upwards of j
a year. j
This appearance of the double had no result whatever, as I
the doctor is still alive, and in good health. j
Lucerne, August 20th, 1877. j j
APPARITION OF A DECEASED RELATION AT THE f
MOMENT OF DEATH. |
By hensleigh wedgwood, m.r.i. jj
t wish to put on record two cases in which the witness, j
from whom I had the narrative, was visited by the appari- j
tion of a near relation just at the moment of death. My in- j
formant in the first case is the wife of a dignified clergyman, j
a lady whom I have known for the last thirty years, in j
whose word I would put the same trust as in my own I
recollection. The witness in the second case is a woman of j
strong sense who acted as sick nurse in the family of a friend if
of mine, and in that character won her regard so entirely I
that she has retained her for her confidential servant. I
1 I
In 1833 Sarah and Margaret, daughters of a barrister on j
the Western circuit, were girls of about ten and twelve j
respectively. They lived with their parents in a house in the j
suburbs of London, and their grandfather and grandmother j
on the opposite side of the road. Their grandmother was a I
woman of decided character and very firm will, and between j
her and the children there was strong affection. To Margaret j
especially she was passionately attached. One night as the I
children lay in their four-post bed, sleeping as they did with j
a light in the room, Sarah saw her grandmother in her night j
dress standing at the foot of the bed, looking at them with a j
pleased smile on her face. She moved round the bed j
keeping her eyes constantly fixed upon the children j
till she passed behind the curtain at the head of the bed on j j
Sarah’s side, and seemed to sit down on the chair that was j j
j)laced there. Sarah raised herself up and drew back the jjj
curtain in order to speak to her, when, to her great surprise, j !
she saw no one there. She was not at all frightened, and j j
awoke her sister, saying, “ Grandmamma is in the room.” j j
They both got up and looked about for.her, and finding that j j
there really was no one in the room, Margaret said that her j j
sister must have been dreaming, and scolded her for j j
awaking her. In the morning they were awoke by their j j
father, who told them that a dreadful thing had happened— | j
that their grandmamma had died in the course of the night, j j
She had been ailing, but nothing serious had been appre- j j
bended until her son was sent for, after the children had j j
gone to bed. On hearing that her grandmother was dead, III
Sarah became much terrified at the thought of having seen a
ghost, and gave a violent scream, without saying anything
of the cause of her fright, so that her father thought
she was going into hysterics; and for long afterwards she
had such a dread of seeing the apparition again, that they
never dare leave her alone at night. A day or two after¬
wards her sister told what Sarah had seen, and, in order to
reassure her, they tried to persuade her it had been a dream ;
but she herself was quite certain that it was not; and she
still, after the lapse of more than forty years, retains the
most vivid remembrance of the whole incident.
II.
NARRATIVE OF MRS. BARFORD.
My father died the 11th January, 1848. My mother had
sent me away to an aunt, who lived about two miles off, in
order to be out of the way while my father was so ill. On
the morning of his death I was called at six o’clock, intend¬
ing, as usual, to help my cousins in the dairy. About a
quarter before seven I was going downstairs with my candle
in my hand, when I met my father in his night shirt coming
up. He put out his hand, as if to take the candlestick,
which I dropped in my fright, and was left alone in the
dark. I knew it could not be my living father, and was
convinced that he was dead, and had come to bid me good¬
bye. I told my cousins what had happened, and said that
I must immediately go home. They tried to persuade me to
stay till after breakfast, saying it was only my fancy, but I
set off at once, and on my way I met my aunt, who had
been sitting up with my father, and was coming back to tell
me of his death, which had taken place just at a quarter
before seven. Jane Bakford.
I may mention one more occurrence of closely analogous
nature which happened to the sister of one of my maids, in
whom I have entire confidence. The husband of this
woman was in the asylum at Hanwell, where he died about
a year ago. On the morning of his death she was awoke at
five o’clock by hearing her husband’s voice call loudly, Annie!
Annie! She felt sure that he wanted her for something,
and she got up and dressed at once, and, as early as she
could get to see her, she went to a lady for whom she was
engaged to work that day, in order to tell her that she
could not keep her engagement, as she must go to Hanwell
to see her husband. She went accordingly, and as soon as
she gave in the name of her husband at the office, she was
told that he had died that morning at five o’clock.
I believe that cases similar to the above are constantly
occurring in all directions, but the knowledge of each
reaches a very restricted circle in consequence of the in¬
credulity with which the news is received. It is only for
the last year or two that my own ears have been open to
such intelligence, but since then I have been astonished at
the number of instances that have occurred within the reach
of my acquaintance. I should be much obliged to any one
who will kindly communicate to me any similar fact that
may have fallen under his notice, with an assurance that I
will mention no names that my correspondent may dislike
being known.
31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-street, London.
Aug. 17th, 1877.
Next Monday evening Mr. W. J. Colville will deliver a trance
address at Mrs. Weldon’s “ Sociable Evening,” at the Langham Hall,
Portland-street, London.
A correspondent writes to us from Southampton that Spiritualism
makes little external show there, and that he should like to know the
names and addresses of others there interested in the subject. We
never give such information without mutual requests to that effect.
Mr. Luther Colby, editor of The Banner of Light, in a letter to us
dated Boston, U.S., August 4th, says:—“I commend to your especial
attention Mr. Thomas Gales Forster, the veteran American Spiritualist,
now in England. He is a talented lecturer.” When the lecturing
season in this country begins, it is to be hoped that the movement will
feel the benefit of Mr. Forster’s intelligent advocacy.
On Thursday evening, August 23rd, Mr. W. J. Colville delivered an
address and poem to a crowded audience in Newcastle-on-Tyne. At
the close of the meeting a collection for Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage
realised ^4 12s. Considering that a large proportion of the audience
knew but little respecting the Orphanage, and were apparently not
very wealthy, the result was pleasing. Photographs of Mrs. Weldon
and copies of the drawing entitled “ A Cloud of Witnesses,’’ were sold
in the hall, and the proceeds forwarded to Mrs. Weldon. Mr. Colville
asks us to state that he thanks the Newcastle people heartily for their
kind co-operation with him in his endeavours to render a little assist-*
auce to Mrs. Weldon in her noble work,
August 3l, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
103
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF THE BUDDHISTS *
BY BABOO PEAKYCHAND MITTRA.
Buddhism was a protest against Brahmanism. If the |
priestcraft had not been predominant, the system of caste, |
which was originally on the principle of the division of j
labour, had not grown into a social evil ; and if the consump- |
tion of animal food and intoxicating drinks had not in- j
creased, it is doubtful whether Buddhism had been conceived, J
and matured as a creed. It took admirably, because the |
popular mind had been debased morally and socially, and a j
reaction was called for. The first thought of those who j
were the primitive Buddhists was how to effect the annihila- |
tion of pain. Buddhists did not originally believe in God, j
nor in the devil; but in Karma (merit and demerit) giving j
birth to new existence. They admitted, however, that intelli- j
gence subsisted as self, and in that view only, it was I
{Atmch)' self or soul.” There are other proofs of its virtual | |
recognition of the soul. Its leading doctrine was to rise j
above Upadana, i.e., attachment to sensuous objects. Its I!
conception of heaven was that it consisted of two conditions, j j
viz., Rupa Loka, or beings of form, and Arupa Loka, beings of j j
no form, or spiritual beings. In this heaven there is no | |
material reward, but ecstasy of real existence. This is the |
heaven for those who arrive at Nirvana. In the Dhamapada j
the word immortality occurs. There is also mention of j
“ divine beings.” j
There is very little doubt that Buddhism grew of the j
Sankhya philosophy. One similarity is that both were j
originally atheistical. Both aimed at emancipating the j j
soul from earthly bondage, and arriving at the spiritual life. | j
The modus operandi for the attainment of this object, both in j j
Buddhism and Sankhya, are the same, viz., the practice of | j
yoge, or intense contemplation. The Buddhists, like the j j
Aryas, practised yoge for suppressing bodily vitality, subju- | |
gating the external senses, bringing on abstraction, tran- | j
quillity and intense contemplation. | j
The numerous forms of mysticism and the different stages I |
of somnambulism and clairvoyance clearly show the in- | |
numerable states between the brain and soul and the state j j
receiving the impress of the soul or partaking of its m
essentiality, is the state in which we have clear knowledge, j j
“ Samadhi is the ideal identification with the object of ill
meditation devoid of individual nature.” The soul rises j j
from the personal to the impersonal; from the sensuous to j
the supersensuous; from the finite to the infinite, in the j j
attainment of the void or nothingness of the mundane j j
and the arrival at the “other shore,” or the state of j i
the Nirvana or Jeebun Saneti—the spiritual state of the j j
Aryas. Mrs. F. W. R. Davids observes that “the attain- m
ment of Samadhi is looked upon by Dr. Carpenter as not I j
only possible, but as having actually taken place in certain 1 |
instances given.” |
Lapen affirms that the early Buddhists acknowledged the j
supreme mind. Bastian finds that the Buddhists of Central j
Asia worshipped Abida as the highest and most perfect god. j
A well-known prayer of the Buddhists is, Om ! Mani Padmi! j
—“ Oh, the jewel of creation is in the lotus—heart or soul j
of the universe, the all-pervading self, or the all in all.” | ;
The following used to be sung on hearing the convent i I
bel!:— . | |
“ Produce in all a perfect rest and quiet from every care, j i
And guide each living soul to lose itself in mind supreme.”
Again, it is said that the true idea of God is in the j j
“inner self.” “The Amiterbha is eternal, omnipresent, I j
Adhi Buddha; and one form of existence, the supreme j j
nature of the first cause ; beyond that we can ascertain I |
nothing.” Again, “There is a supreme power; but not a j j
supreme being.” The theistic Buddhas of Nepaul think that | |
the self-existent God is the sum of perfection, infinite, I |
eternal; without members or passions; “ one with all things j j
(in priverti) and separable from all things (in nevrite), as j j
form, formed, and formless—the essence of priverti and j j
nevrite.” Gotama, arriving at Nirvana, assured his disciples j j
that there is a divinity in man that for ever works for universal j j
and remedial ends. It appears from several of the above j j
passages that the Buddhas were largely importing Yedantic j j
ideas. In Hodgson’s Literature and Religion of the Buddhists, j j
* See The Psychology of the Aryas, By the same author. i (i
we find that the soul, or joraw and jiva, is a particle of the
essence of the Adi Buddha. Soul is unchangeable. In
Beale’s Catena, we find further proof of the Buddhists being
saturated with Vedantic doctrines. “ The contemplative
soul views God by a light which is the divine essence, and
even the soul is that divine light.” With regard to
Yedantism, Yans Kennedy says, “ It cannot but excite sur¬
prise that man at that remote period should have been capable
of entering into such abstruse speculation and forming con¬
ceptions to the sublimity of which no philosopher of Europe
has ever attained.” Sir William Jones adds his testimony
that it is “ a system wholly built on the purest devotion.”
The Buddhists, like the Aryas, valued soul as the best
source of knowledge. They say “ the various kinds of know¬
ledge : ear knowledge, eye knowledge, taste knowledge, and
all things that exist in the phenomenal world are as unreal as
a phantom.” Again, “ All lust removed, all wicked acts
uprooted, all within calm and pure, without any blemish.
Who is acquainted with all things that have not yet trans¬
pired. Who knows and sees and hears all things? ” Such
universal wisdom is rightly called “ illumination.” The
soul has “ divine eye or divine vision.”
The word Nirvana has been variously interpreted. The
author of the article on Buddhism in the Encyclopcedia
Britannica, 9th edition, gives the following definition:—
“ Happy seat, the excellent external. Place of bliss where
there is no death or decay, the end of suffering, the home of
peace, the other side of the ocean of existence, the shore of
salvation, the harbour of refuge, the medicine of all evil, the
transcendent, the tranquil state, the truth, the infinite, the
inseparable, the everlasting.” “ The fruits of Nirvana are
supreme wisdom, complete deliverance and essential body; ”
Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, Yol. XX. Yarious
terms have been used to denote this state. Amrita (immor¬
tality), apavarga (conclusion, completion, or abandonment),
sreyas (excellence), nih-neyasa (assured assurance), caiwalya
(singleness), nihsarava (exit, departure), mueti or moesha
(emancipation, deliverance from evil, liberation from worldly
bonds, relief from further transmigration), ananda (unmixed
tranquil happiness, or ecstasy). There are many other terms.
The word Nirvana or Jeebun mueti was also used by the
Aryas and meant the spiritual state, which it is clear the
Buddhist also meant. Nirvana literally means the extinguish¬
ment of the brain or natural life. The spiritual state or the
linga sarira (subtile body) of the Aryas.
The Buddhists describe this state as void.
Schlaginteveit, in his Buddhism in Thibet, observes:—“ Per¬
fection in abstract meditation is indispensable for final
salvation; the perfection guarantees an energy not to be
derived from the mere practice of simple virtues. Yoidness
alone is self-evident and perfect.”
Burnouf says:—“ The expression ‘ void,’ which occurs in
what are indirectly the oldest monuments, has led me to the
supposition that Sankhya saw the highest good in the com¬
plete annihilation of the thinking principle. He represented
it to himself according to an oft-repeated simile like the ex¬
tinction of the flame of a dying lamp.”
D’Alwis defines void as a state above all desire and fear.
In Samuel Beal’s Catena of Buddhistic Scriptures, it is said
that in this mysterious state of Sathagata, the state of
wisdom is the same as the substantial void, and the state of
emptiness is the same as the substantial wisdom, ever pure
and unconditioned, universally diffused.”
# * * * * *
Yoid means the absorption of the brain in the soul. When
this is done, the spiritual life is attained. This is not only
the teaching of the Aryas and Buddhists, but Christian Mystics
have said “ In nothingness is all.” Charles Kingsley says,
“ Empty thyself and God will fill thee.”
The Arya and Buddhist teaching is :—“ The more the self,
the I, the me, the mine—that is self-seeking and selfishness—
abate in a man the more does God’s I, that is God Himself,
increase in him.”
Buddhism was originally atheistic, because the predominant
idea was the extinction of pain. Intense contemplation
vivified the conviction of the existence of the soul or the
immortal and divine principle in the human being and
through the soul, the Soul of Souls was made vivid. Buddhism
104
THE SPIEtTUALtST.
August 31, 187?.
although originally atheistic, was eventually Vedantic in the
conception of God, of the soul and the means of attaining
Nirvana or soul life.
Calcutta.
ANGEL VOICES.
Jeanne d’Arc, the maid of Orleans, declared on her trial that she had done
nothing but what she had been ordered to do by spiritual beings, angels and
saints, and that the voices of such were “ soft and good.”
Soft and good are the angel-voices
Whispering to us from angel-land,
Whene’er I hear them my heart rejoices
As if I were then on the angel-strand,
Meeting the loved ones gone before,
Safely passed over death’s dim shore.
Sweet is the voice of one long departed,
A deeper tone than to earth belongs,
Bringing peace to the broken-hearted,
Melodious joy from celestial songs ;
Calling us up to our home above,
Drawing us there with the voice of love.
When I hear the voice I feel a heart
Beating with mine, and a mystic thrill
Falls on my soul, with a shudder and start;
But again in a moment all is still,
And I hear my name by the spirit’s voice,
And those accents loved make my heart rejoice.
Soft and sweet are those angel greetings,
Tender and true is a spirit’s hand,
Not of the earth are such heavenly meetings,
Bright forecasts of the summer-land ;
He who enjoys them is dead to earth,
His soul approaches the second birth.
Lucerne, Switzerland, Aug. 1877. A. J. C.
THE PREDICTION.
That brain of rare capacity was still;
A trembling sigh like to a little child’s
He breathed, and then the heart had ceased to beat.
We looked upon our father’s face in death ;
We gazed upon that calm, still countenance,
The bitterness of death within our souls.
His first-born, whom that father loved the best,
Stood by his side, and ere he passed away,
He looked upon his face, and feebly said—
“ ’Twill soon be well with him, ’twill soon be well.”
In six short weeks that young man, in full strength,
By sudden painful sickness was cast down;
And lying there he oft would raise his hand
And bid them place a chair beside the bed.
“ Do you not see him standing there ?” he cried.
“ Give him a chair, and let my father rest.”
Then would he speak, and wonder those around
Could not behold what seemed to him so clear.
“ He raves,” they said; “ it is this cruel pain ;
So strong, it seems to seize on him the more ;
He knows not what he says, God pity him I”
Our brother died. Death seemed to cling to us.
With deepest meaning those last words returned—
“ ’Twill soon be well with him ; ’twill soon be well.”
We thought our father’s soul had grown more strong
At death’s approach, and gained a new-born power,
Like the first gilded streaks at morning’s birth,
With night’s depressing veil but half removed,
Before the distant hills in sunlight stand,
His soul caught gleams of everlasting day.
Ere yet its prison bars were rent in twain,
He saw the brightness of the spirit’s home,
And knew the one he loved would soon be there.
And then he said, ft ’Twill soon be well with him.”
Perchance that son beheld his father’s form,
Invisible to all except himself.
Alice Worthington (Ennesfalien).
[Great/reedom is given lo correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be keptby the writers.]
SEANCES IN MALVERN.
Sir,—The difficulties of mediumship have some illustration even in
our small circles here. I believe there is never any hitch at the Egyptian
Hall, but the most successful mediums I have known have been
liable to frequent disappointments and failures, and those under circum¬
stances inconceivable had they been impostors.
The other night we had the trial of two sceptics. Both came from a
distance ; both were honest inquirers after the truth. One was a pupil
of Robert Owen, but he did not follow him into Spiritualism. The
other is a disciple of Mr. Bradlaugh. The Owenite had been somewhat
shaken in his views of matter by taking his own book-slate to Dr. Slade,
and having it written in under his eyes, we heard, while he was
touched, and pushed, with his chair, back from the table, by some force
invisible.
At our seance the room and the medium were examined by the
I sceptics. When we were sitting with all hands joined we had the tests
of our musical boxes being wound up and moving about us like winged
creatures, while playing, being stopped, set going, and made to play fast
or slow at word of command. “ Joey ” spoke and played on the mouth
organ while the mouth of the medium was full of wine, and again when
his lips were firmly sealed with postage stamps. Later, in a good light,
11 a spirit form, fully draped in white, came before the curtain eleven
) | seconds after the medium went behind it. Another tall and full draped
<! form dematerialised before our eyes, gradually shrinking from a good six
11 feet high—a head taller than the medium—to a pigmy size, then melting
/! into the air, leaving only a mass of gauzy drapery, which was held up
|'j and shaken before us to show that the form had vanished. The door
) i and window were securely fastened. There were no such forms, and no
M such draperies, in the room. There were no means for producing
(j optical illusions.
> | Our two sceptics were very much puzzled, but they were not con-
)j vinced. It is not easy to get out of the habits of a lifetime. Andthecon-
\! test of their unbelief, in spite of their good intentions, made the seance
) i painful and very exhausting to the medium, and also, it seemed, diffi-
\ j cult and aggravating to the controlling spirits.
Is] My Owenite friend returned to London next morning. He has
| thought it over, and is coming again. The lady who admires Mr.
I Bradlaugh sat in another seance, and got such close, tangible, personal
evidence as left no room for doubt. Whilst her own hands perfectly
isolated the works of a musical box, it stopped, went on, and an¬
swered her questions, and she was bothered; but when, all hands being
firmly held, her hands and face were touched by Joey, who was talking
li with her all the while, and arguing every point of the previous seance,
\ pointing out test after test, and when, finally, her cap was taken off
and put on the head of a lady opposite, and that lady’s put upon her
head, and both nicely adjusted, what could she do but surrender ?
| I have mentioned the lights brought by the spirits to enable us to see
them in the dark seances. We had the opportunity a few nights ago to
examine these very closely. First, at a distance of ten feet, crosses
of intense white light, like starlight, were shown. The forms then
came quite near, holding the crosses of light, so that they illuminated
their faces, but were not visible to us. Then Joey brought one and
held it within a foot of my face. It was on a thick, brownish
card, about the size of a common playing-card, the cross of
light occupying three-fourths of the surface. The light-giving
j matter was even with the dark portion, and the whole surface, dark and
)j light, was a little rough, like blotting paper. There was no fl&me, as
| with phosphorus, and no odour. It was held and rubbed against my
i cheek, and also before the eyes and against the cheeks of every person
| present, who described the feeling as velvety. The light appeared and
disappeared before our eyes, at the command of the very intelligent
individual who brought it for our examination.
Later, Joey, and his confederate Ernest, brought quite close, but not
| near enough to touch us, masses of light of a globular form, flattened
j globes, shining all through the mass, which was enveloped in folds of
gauzy drapery. Joey brushed the folds aside with his fingers to show us
the shining substance. It was as if a gem—a turquoise or a pearl—three
inches across, had become incandescent, full of light, so as to illuminate
about a yard round. This light also we saw come and go. Joey allowed
his larger light to go almost dark, and then revived it to its former
brilliancy. I need not say that all the chemists of Europe could not,
under such conditions, produce such phenomena, if, indeed, they could
under any; and yet our Tyndalls and Huxleys think them quite unworthy
| of their notice, and our Lankesters prosecute at Bow-street for “ palmistry
or otherwise.”
In respect to the gold ring taken from a fastened drawer at Malvern,
) i and dropped upon a table in London, I can only say that I carefully
)j examined the fastening, and that “to the best of my knowledge and
11 belief” it had not been tampered with. But I do not expect my testi-
j mony will convince anyone of the reality of what they consider im-
j | possible. For that they must have the evidence of their own senses,
(| and for many even that is not sufficient. T. L. Nichols, M.D.
; I Aldwyn Tower, Malvern, Aug. 27th, 1877.
i SPIRITUALISM IN HOLLAND.
Sir,—At a regular meeting of the Society of Oromase, held at our
| rooms August 7th, the following gentlemen were unanimously elected
officers:—President, Mr. A. J. Riko, Oude Molstraal 8a; secretary,
Mr. M. L. Delboy, Spuistraat 67, to whom all communications should
be addressed. M. L. Delboy, Secretary.
| The Hague, August 8th, 1877.
Sir,—Yesterday the leading paper of the Hague published, amongst
other good items on Spiritualism, Slade’s proposal to Lankester, pointing
out the straightforward manner in which the medium dealt with him,
and submitting Lankester’s non-complia'ice. The Dayblad says that
) i Lankester’s behaviour speaks volumes. I’ll send the same facts to
i some Belgian and German papers.
I Dr. Slade has left the Hague for Brussels, in which place he is doing
i a great deal of good to the cause, my friends there tell me. I hope the
i American papers will publish this also.
! As you know, we had a visit here from the Baron and Baroness
) i von Yay. Some of the best and oldest Spiritualists had the oppor-
| i tunity of meeting them, and were favoured by witnessing some of the more
I interesting features of the Baroness’s mediumship. These true Spirit-
) i ualists left a very pleasant and interesting impression here.
|| Mr. Williams is coming here on his yearly visit in a few days,
ji Our Society Oromase continues its studies with the same liveliness as it
| manifested twenty years ago. A. J. Riko.
11 Oude Molstraal 8a, the Hague, Holland.
1 ■ August 25tb, 1877.
August 31, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 105
THE TEMPERATURE OP THE HEAD.
Sis,—In your excellent article encouraging the Research Committee
to do some more practical work, you suggest a series of experiments on
the temperature of different parts of the head.
The only satisfactory experiments we have hitherto on this subject
are those of Professor Perrier. We see by them that certain surface
convolutions are associated with certain definite movements. Thus,
the convolution he calls 1 is associated with movements of the hind
leg; 2, 3, and 4, with various motions used in climbing or swimming ;
5 regulates the forward extension of the arm; 6, the supination of
the hand and flexion of the forearm; 7 and 8, the elevators and de¬
pressors of muscles at the angle of the mouth ; 9 and 10, the organs
of articulation; 11, the platysma; while sight, hearing, and smell are
possibly connected with the organs marked hy Perrier 13, 14, and 15 .
This scheme is, of course, as yet very rough; but up to the present
time it is the only one which is compatible with the experience of
the practical demonstrator of anatomy.
Variations in temperature might be observed in different parts of
the head ; but such variation would merely be coincident with action
in the great arterial and venous channels, and would be found to exist
more on the surface of the brain than in relation to changes in any par¬
ticular convolution.
The coincidence of certain convolutions with surface phenomena on
the skull is insisted on by Professor Perrier with great ingenuity. But
the facts which Gratiolet and Rolleston have shown us with regard to
Tartar skulls are quite enough to illustrate how difficult it would be
to predict the form of any convolution from mere surface inspection.
If a convolution in the brain of a medium were to be excited accord¬
ing to Perrier’s plan (remembering that the electrodes do not cover a
larger diameter than a quarter of an inch), it would be interesting to
see whether any of the results which Perrier has arrived at in monkeys
could be repeated. But the difficulty in procuring the subject would
be immense, and the cost of an unsuccessful experiment greater than
the Research Committee would, I think, care to risk. But Perrier’s
experiments can be repeated and verified by any one who complies
with the legal obligations.
I admit that “a part of the brain unduly stimulated” might
“ necessarily be warmer than surrounding regions.” But without the
employment of some process like that of Perrier, I do not see how the
fact can be proved. The expense necessary to procure or to compen¬
sate subjects would, I submit, be too great. C. Carter Blake.
THE THEOLOGICAL CONDITION OP EDINBURGH.
Sir,—Mr. J. T. Rhodes justly observes that Spiritualism has made
little progress in Edinburgh, and this he ascribes to three causes, one of
which is “ the prevalent hard Calvinistic theology ” which he takes it
for granted exists among us. There is no city where liberal opinions
upon theological subjects are more widely diffused, but there is a great
want of moral courage to avow them. The clergy are quite aware of
the strong under-current which is at work, and which has sapped the
belief of not a few of them in Calvinism. If Mr. Rhodes regards the
number of churches and worshippers as a test of belief in Calvinism, he
is greatly mistaken. People attend church on Sunday because it is
fashionable and respectable, but I firmly believe that the very great
majority of them would not give an account of what they had heard.
It is well known that the clergy here have lost the influence which they
once had. Still, there are a number of old women of both sexes, and
weak silly young folks too, who still regard their ministers as the
masses once did.
If a thoroughly honest and truthful man, one in whom confidence
could be placed, would originate a movement here, Spiritualism would
doubtless make progress, for there are a good many believers and
inquirers, but no organisation; much, however, would depend upon the
character of the originator. Will Mr. Rhodes undertake the work ?
Materialism is widely spread among the educated class, for which a
belief in Spiritualism is the only antidote. Spiritualist.
Edinburgh.  
REINCARNATION.
“ I do not say it is possible, I only say it is true.”
Sir,—In your journal of 17th instant my friend, Mr. Benjamin Cole¬
man, favours me with a question, to which I most willingly reply. He
wishes me to tell him whether my young friend, who at a seance at my
house, described by the Reverend Mr. Colley, and who was greeted by
one of the controlling spirits as the reincarnation of Aristides the Just,
is a man “ well-nigh morally perfect.” The young man in question is of
Grecian birth ; he has been highly recommended to me by Signor
Filalete, the editor of the Annali dello Spiritismo, of Turin, and I have
found in this young Greek gentleman a model of courteousness and
modesty, joined with no small amount of intelligence. With respect,
however, to his c‘ moral perfection,’’ for aught I know, he may be far
in advance of the renowned Aristides. For how can moral worth be
fathomed? Men are but the creatures of circumstances, and moral
worth is one of those mysterious puddings, the proof of which is in the
eating. Aristides was called the Just, because he would not adopt the
suggestion of Themistocles of burning all the ships belonging to the
other Greek states, in order to secure the naval supremacy of Athens.
Who knows but that my young Greek friend, placed under the same
circumstances, would not surpass in magnanimity his prototype, by not
only indignantly spurning so savage a proposal, but, in addition, ordering
that any excess of ships belonging to the Athenians be equally distri¬
buted amongst the other cities of Greece ? Who can tell ? If Aristides
has come on earth again, it is not reasonable to suppose that he came for
the purpose of further perfecting his sense of justice; he is here, no
doubt, to learn other things, especially perhaps those belonging to the
spirit, in which, for aught we know, ho was utterly deficient. The
often repeated objection might be made, “ Why could not Aristides learn
lj Spiritualism during the twenty-four long centuries of his residence in
)j the spirit-world, with such splendid opportunities as are to be found
(| there ? ” The reply is simple: If we could learn all things there, we
(| should not be sent here, not even once. It is evident, therefore, that we
/1 are destined to be taught the rudiments of knowledge while in the state
(i of incarnated spirits; and as it is obvious to the reincarnationist (and it
j i ought to be so to all) that we cannot learn all things in one existence,
) I the necessity of the plurality of earthly existences becomes self-evident.
(j No matter how worthy Aristides was, if he went to the spirit-world
11 lacking the knowledge of things spiritual, he would find himself there
blind, incapable of advancement, and obliged at last to return to the
| school of earth. And he has come indeed for a purpose; for my Greek
j! friend, from his early youth, has been initiated in the new philosophy,
j being now a thorough Spiritist, and, as such, he is worth a thousand
11 Aristides of old, however just.
I Mr. Coleman adds that I have become a reincarnationist since my
(| residence on the Continent. I may be mistaken, but I think my friend
11 seems to insinuate that, being an inhabitant of the Continent, I must
j | follow continental fashions, reincarnation included. Let me assure him
(i that if he thinks that the doctrine of the plurality of existences is a mere
| fancy, an abstract theory, a matter of faith, or a hobby, he is thoroughly
i mistaken. It is a certainty, which asserts its mastery after much ex-
\| perience, thought, investigation, and, above all, evidence, one-half of
)i which would be sufficient to convince any sound mind of anything even
) | more abstruse, including Spiritualism. I would like Mr. Coleman to
\| investigate. G. Damiani.
If Naples, 23rd August, 1877.
I MATERIALISATION OF SPIRIT HEADS, NO. 9.
(j Sir,—Aug. 16th.—Two distinguished English visitors have recently
ji passed through Paris, the one a gentleman of high culture and position
/1 (I give you his name confidentially); the other a lady of one of the
(| highest ducal families of your three kingdoms, whom I will designate
|i| by the convenient anonym of “Lady Jane Grey;” both advanced and
I thorough Spiritualists. They could not attend our seances, for, inde-
| pendently of other reasons, it happened that Firman was absent from
) I Paris for a few days. But both were severally admitted to see the busts
i at Count de Bullet’s apartments. They both agreed with me that they
| ! were more beautiful than the photographs of them; and in regard to
| that of Glaucus, they both fully recognised that there was no exaggera-
| tion in the term in which I have found the best expression for my idea
| of it, namely, that it was simply seraphic. Such loving sweetness of
| expression, combined with intellectuality; such youthful maturity, as of
i ( the immortal life—Man become Angel—I cannot conceive a higher ideal
j of a Seraph. The letter of your artist correspondent, Isabel de S ,
HI in your last number, may possibly have hit upon a truth, and the Apollo
is and Venus of Greek art, which have established for all modern imagina-
| | tion and art the ideals of divine beauty, may have been expressions in
m marble of visions of materialised spirits, such as it has now been given
j U to our age also to see, and to fix in moulds and casts. I prefer this head
II of Glaucus for its sweetness to that of the God of the Silver Bow,
i 11 perfectly appropriate as is the expression of the latter to the action re-
! j| presented in the Apollo Belvidere. It seems to me rather a combination
I | of an Apollo and an Antinous. It is an Antinous made intellectual and
II i powerful. And it is a most curious circumstance, though of course not
| i apparent in a mould and bust, which can only render form without
I j colour, that in the original, so often beheld by us all, the hair which sur-
(j mounts this seraph face shows always white. I can only presume, as
I ji has been before said, that it is intended to symbolise to us that old age
i jj which is contradicted by the youthful beauty of the face.
| j Both of our visitors also noticed the circumstance, in reference to
| j| (< Angela,” that while in the two face casts just obtained, the one only
I as far back as the mid-cheek, the other to behind the ears, there is no
I j| appearance of teeth, yet in the bust the lips are a little more parted, so
flj as to show, when closely examined in profile, the square edge of the
| little teeth behind the upper lip—a small, but great fact, as proof that
i j j these faces are no reproductions of any sculptured model,
j ji I regard it as a fortunate circumstance that the upheaved and swollen
j j right shoulder in the bust of Glaucus is clearly and wholly out of pro-
j j j portion. No hitherto unknown genius of modem sculpture, who could
j j j possibly have created that head, could possibly have attached to • it so
j j | faulty a shoulder. So that, even if such witnesses as the Count and
I jj Countess de Bullet, M. Lvoff, of Moscow, and myself, had not actually
j j witnessed its production, as stands recorded in your columns—and even
j jj if there were not now in M. Lvoff’s possession a mould of his sister
jjj <f Alexandrine,” entire though spoiled for casting from, as well as the
j j j bust resulting from another good and perfect mould—this mere bust of
1 j j Glaucus, though the mould from which the cast was obtained by the
j j j plasterer was necessarily destroyed in tearing it off from the
I j j alabaster cast, contains its own intrinsic evidence in full confirmation of
j j j our testimony. I do not regret that spoiled right shoulder. No artist—
jjj no intelligent spectator—can look at it without asking himself, how on
j j j earth that shoulder under that head came to be so. It is in itself con-
j j j elusive that that bust was not fraudulently derived from any human
j j sculptor’s work—which is what our opponents would of course suppose,
jjj even in the face of manifest absurdity. I challenge them only to
j j examine the casts by themselves, and the busts by themselves, which
j j j you have in photographs, and which we have here in the originals—
jjj (setting aside, if they please, the personal testimony of such ocular
jjj witnesses as the Count and Countess De Bullet, M. Lvoff, and M.
jjj de Veh, to say nothing of your humble servant)—and let them dare
jjj meet us in honest discussion over them, for the elucidation of the
jjj truth, whether to the benefit of their side of the issue joined, or of
j j j ours. But they will not accept this challenge, though by its terms it
j j is addressed to all of them, in the sacred name of science, of truth,
! j and of religion, from great Tyndalls and Carpenters down to Lan-
kesters and Donkins.
iDe
August 31, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
It is curious that iju every one of the three busts thus far obtained,
intrinsic evidence qf their genuineness presents itself, that is to say,
proof that they could-not have been casts reproduced from any marble,
clay, or plaster work of human sculpture.
In the case of “Angela,” the teeth appearing in the bust while not in
either of the casta of what is manifestly the same face.
In the case Of-“Alexandrine,” the roughness of surface on the one
side, visible in the photograph you have of the interior of the mould
(see Spiritualist of Aug. 3, page 58.)
And in the case of “ Glaucus,” the malformation of the right shoulder
above mentioned. -. ... .
Is this a mere coincidence of accidents ? or could there possibly have
been design in it, with a view to their presenting, stamped upon them¬
selves, intrinsic evidence of their preternatural origin and fabrication ?
But though Firman was absent, we held a seance last evening,
with Williams as medium, he happening to pass through Paris on his
way to Switzerland. “Lady Jane Grey,” above mentioned, was
present. The two spirits well known to the attendants on Williams’s
seances in London, “ John King ” and “ Peter,’’ both showed up and
talked up very freely. Just as when John King appears through
Firman’s mediumship we hear in his voice many intonations of that
of Firman, so now did we hear those of Williams. This corresponds
to what he has told us, that in order to speak they have to draw the ,
elements for forming the requisite organs from the organism of the i
medium. Also was there a certain resemblance in his face to that of j
Williams, as we have often (though not always) seen to that of Firman, i
Yet, on the other hand, the face of Peter was of a totally different type j
—sharp, smart, much smaller, and with a rather retiring forehead, i j
Nor was his voice at all the same. Their hands also differed sensibly j)
in size and in the feeling as they grasped ours. Peter and Lady Jane i j
Grey seemed to be quite familiar friends, and a good deal of dialogue j!
passed between them. Peter was voluble, but not this time noisy, nor !
at all vulgar, as he is said to be sometimes. Each showed himself by ] j
the “ lamp ” or luminous stone borne in his hand. Both wore similar |
white drapery, which to the touch was of the very softest and finest j/j
conceivable texture. In the course of the stance Peter laid his hand on |
the Count’s head, and said that he was “ doing a good worh." He then !}
did the same to me, saying, “ And so are you” \)
Various incidents occurred, of which I will only mention the fol- j
lowing:—John had been shaking hands with us, and I mentioned to j)
“Lady Jane Grey,” who was seated next to me, how he had recently j
lifted our hands up to the ceiling, compelling us to get up on our chairs. | j
This had never occurred to her, but she wished it might. Presently Hi
John came, and again did the same to me, and then to her, and then to ij]
the Count, and finally, to Mrs. Firman; He put us all through the {
exercise of getting up to stand on our chairs and have our fingers gently ] j]
knocked on the ceiling. i j ]
During several periods of the stance, while the spirit en scene was Mi
doing other performances with the others, I was receiving familiar j ji
caresses from soft female fingers, whose touch I well knew, on my hand, I i
face, and head, including the sign of the Cross three times made on my j (|
forehead; but it was in vain that I begged her to apply them to my j ]
lips, though she has more than once before done it. I felt who it was, ] j]
but for confirmation asked John who it was—“ Why, your mother, of Ml
course.” ’ ! j I
Towards the close of the seance, “Peter’’said tome—“Now, Mr. jj]
Sullivan (he dropped the O’), J want to do something for you; what
shall it he ?” “ Thank you, anything you please, and that you can best ] j]
do.” “ No, I want you to say what” “ Well, suppose you make the I jl
sign of the Cross with your light, as has often been done to us before.” j jj
There was, perhaps, a minute of silent waiting in the dark, perhaps less, j j j
What I expected was—what we have often seen—the sign of the Cross j)j
made in the air before us, by the Spirit holding the lamp in the right j I
hand, and making with it, first the longer vertical line, and then the i j
shorter transverse one; sometimes so quick that the light before us j
would seem almost continuous, so as almost to present for a rapid jjj
instant, the glimpse of a cross of light in the air. This has been done jjj
by Glaucus, most of all, by my mother, and by John King himself, ijl
And done often. And this was what I expected when I made the jjj
above-mentioned request to this stranger, “Peter.” What he showed jj
in a few moments was something very different. He held against the jjj
palm of his hand, nearly vertical, a small luminous cross, of about an jjj
inch in height, the shaft longer than the cross-piece, and surrounded by jjj
a luminous ring, of which the diameter might have been about a couple j j j
of inches. The edges, both of cross and of encircling ring, were well- jj
defined and sharp. There was no shading off. The width, both of the j j i
parts of the cross and of the encircling ring, I should say to have been j j
from a sixth to a quarter of an inch. How far this more minute jj
description may correspond to what Mr. Tomlinson saw (Spiritualist, j j j
July 27, page 43), I do not know, but should like to know. j jl
“ Peter ” said he would like to be allowed to come over sometimes to j j j
owe seances. We answered that he would be always welcome. I will jjj
farther mention that at our request he stopped the playing of our large jj
musical box, and then on further request started it again; in both cases j j j
the box being shut, and my arm on the lid. He then lifted and carried j j j
it off for awhile, then returning it to its place. He said he did it by pro- j j
jecting force to the proper point in the works. jl
Aug. 18.—Firman having returned we had an ordinary seance yester- jj
day and to-day. Williams, and also “Lady Jane Grey,” had gone, jjj
Nothing very remarkable excepting the following pointsj jj
We expressed our gratification with what we had had from “ Peter.” jj]
“ Pies, he was not so noisy as he sometimes is.” |p
He said he would try to give us another mould on Tuesday, and hoped jjj
that the Countess would come. “ You will have something which will jjj
astonish you, and shut up some critical mouths.” “ What is it to be? ” jjj
Be patient, and you will see,” “ Whose mould is it to be? ” “Be ijj
patient, and you will see? Such was our dialogue on that subject. We H‘
shall see what may come of that. Meantime, I like to record prediction
or promise-as part of the res gestae.
After having crushed my hand in his until I had to cry out that I
could not stand it, and that he would break the bones, he said, “ Now,
John, have you got a good grip f ” and he placed his hand in mine.
“ I’ve got a good hearty grip of friendship, but nothing like yours.”
“ Well, try, and I will cry out if you hurt me.” I did my best, and
then reinforced the right hand with the left, but did not seem to make
. much impression. He certainly did not cry out, as he had made me do.
He then went through the same process with the Count, with the same
result. All he then said was, “ I think I shall soon call on you for your
cannon-hall.” (See my letter of August 17th.)
I told him I wanted to ask him one or two questions, if he had no
objection. “ Yes, this is Saturday, question day; what is it?” “Atour
seance with your other medium, Williams, both you and Peter ap¬
peared, and each showed himself by a lamp, or luminous stone. Did
each have a separate stone of his own, or was it your stone, which you
lent and passed to him?” “Didn't you see that they were quite
different?” “I didn’t notice that, but I suppose now that it was so,
and that they were two different stones, as we call them.” “ Yes.”
Again, “ You have thrown some light on the process of materialisa¬
tion of faces and heads. You have told us how you gather the atomic
particles out of the atmosphere, out of the medium, and even out of
us, and then put them together. Do you form your lamp or stone in
the same way? ” *£ Yes, what would become of it otherwise when I go
away ? ” “ You mean that you form it anew every time you come, and
that it disperses and vanishes when you go away ? ” ‘| Yes.” “ A.n<j
then you can form it at will into such shape as you please.” “ Yes.”
“And now about its luminosity; is that derived from phosphoric
particles which you thus collect ? ” “ You have hit it exactly, and I get
those out of your heads.” This sounds reasonable. The light looks
phosphoric, though there is never apparent the slightest phosphoric
odour, but often (not always) a marked sweet scent, somewhat like
that of aromatic vinegar. I did not think of asking him whence that
odour was derived.
A critical English friend has written me that a good imitation of
John King’s “lamp” could be made by half filling a round glass
vessel with oil, in which should be dissolved pieces of phosphorus,
which will then be made luminous by uncorking it. That we knew
and had tried, on the hint of Mr. Crookes’s phosphoric lamp, but we
abandoned it as dangerous in a small close room. But it is not a good
imitation. It bears to John King’s lamp about the same relation that
the conjurors’ imitations do to the real phenomena of Spiritualism. In
the first place, you always see in it the surface line of the oil, shifting as
the round glass vessel is moved—which is not the case in the real
“lamp.” In the second place, in the real “lamp” we have seen
variations in the size, not only in the course of the same seance, but
actually occurring before our eyes, the stone dwindling or increasing in
diameter from that of a big walnut to that of a big orange. And in
the third place, we have at times searched both the cabinet and Firman,
before or after a seance, with such thoroughness as to ascertain per¬
fectly that there was nothing in there thicker than a card, which
might have been contained in a small pocketbook, which was the only
thing we did not explore. My ingenious critical friend must give up
that theory about John King’s “ lamp.”
I further asked John about the small cross, enclosed in a circle,
both luminous, which “Peter ” had shown us, as above related. “ Was
that the stone thrown into that form by will power ? ” “ Yes, exactly;
and the halo round it was derived from its light,” I do not quite un¬
derstand the latter part of this answer—that is, how the bright
luminosity of the cross in the centre should produce, or cause, the en¬
circling of light called by John a “halo,” that ring having about the
same width and strength of light as the cross itself.
August 19.—I went to the seance to-day (from which I have just re¬
turned) in a state of severe suffering in the lower part of the spinal
column—a sort of lumbago, I suppose. Again was I favoured with
the wonderful experience of being mesmerised by Glaucus with a
vigorous manipulation. This is the third time of this experience, the
mesmerising having been the first time daily for five days, for a far
gone bad state of my throat and chest, the second once for acute
pleuritic pain. I have no time now for particular description, but it
was marvellous, and repeated three times with short intervals. It
lasted full twenty or twenty-five minutes, as estimated by the Count.
Three times in the course of it he made on me, forehead, breast, and
shoulders, the sacred sign of the Cross. I experienced very great relief
for the time. J. L. O’Scllivan.
2, Rue Solferino, Paris.
ASTROLOGY, DESTINY, AND PRAYER.
Sir,—Your correspondent “Life Beyond the Grave,” having opened
out some interesting questions in reference to astrology, you will per¬
haps permit me, as a young student of the “false science,” to offer a
few remarks and suggestions thereon.
At the outset let me observe that the guides of Mrs. Woodforde, who
have made the dogmatic assertion printed in your columns last week,
confess their entire ignorance of the subject by their own utterances.
If I were a betting man I would lay a large sum to a brass button that
there is not one amongst them who could erect a horary scheme or
map if requested, and that being the case, they are no more competent
to judge astrology than am I to pass a verdict upon the sciences of
botany or medicine, concerning which I lack the most rudimentary in¬
formation. These good genii affirm that “ astrology is a false science. * *
It is higher wisdom for a man to believe that which is a fact—that
he is the maker of his own destiny. A man makes his own destiny as
he goes. The very fact of a man knowing all that is to befall him,
would prevent his praying at all; he would suppose it impossible to
August 31, 1877.
107
THE SPIRITUALIST.
alter destiny ; he would sink into despair,” &c. If these visitors from |
the other world knew anything at all of astrology, they could not i)
have written in this strain. It is the old story of the prejudices which |
existed when on earth being carried into the next sphere. Let me say j)
at once that astrologers do not claim for their maligned science a position | (
to which it is not entitled. It is only the unlearned who attribute to it jf)
powers which its professors never ventured to assert. Astrologers, as a |)
body, admit—1st. That each child is born into this earth under some U
particular stellar influence. That in the main a map taken at the hour j j
of birth will indicate the future of this child’s existence. That there |)
will be particular times and seasons shown by the nativity where |]
dangers and difficulties will accrue, and other periods when all should | j
prosper. This appears to be destiny, a destiny from which there is no j j
appeal. Here, however, the beneficial influence of astrology makes I (
itself felt. The human will is superior to an apparent destiny, and I j
can generally, if it perceives the danger, avoid it. If, however, evil | j
aspects threaten to afiect man, and he quietly submits, or does not j]
take timely precautions, then he will feel the full force of their | j
malignity, and possibly be crushed beneath them. This is, however, i j
not “destiny ”—it is the lack of the necessary knowledge which would i j
have seen him past the evil time when it came upon him. So if i j
benefic planets smiled upon a man, and he know not of it, what ij
brilliant prospects he might miss, whereas a knowledge of astrology |
would have taught him not to lie idly on his oars whilst the tide ij
which could have borne him on to fortune was rolling up the strand i
of life. i |
I think this brief explanation fairly covers the whole ground, and | j
serves to show that astrology, like Spiritualism, and many other j j
“ ologies ” and “ isms,” is but a milestone on the pathway of mortal i j
existence, pointing out the direction whereby a man may travel. If j j
your correspondent, “ Life beyond the Grave,” wishes to know more of j j
this fascinating study, let him procure the requisite elementary works, j j
and learn for himself, so as not to be compelled to take the ipse dixit of j j
either spirit or mortal. The task is not a difficult one. In a few weeks ! j
sufficient progress can be made to test its accuracy, and then, perhaps, i j
the advice 1 have given will be thankfully remembered. i)
To all those who sneer and scoff at astrology I have but one word to I ]
say—if it be false, prove it so. This should be easily done. There are j j
thousands of horoscopes in existence of men who have been promi- ||
nently before the world, and whose names have been celebrated or i
notorious. Yet in a single case does their horoscope belie their lives ? ! j
Without going back to ancient days, let us just quote the cases of the |)
Duke of Wellington, Napoleon Bonaparte, Queen Victoria, and j
Napoleon III. The positions shown by the planets in the nativities of ||
each of these predict the future. Jupiter in the mid-heaven, in the ||
schemes of both Wellington and our Queen, showers down his genial j<
influence, whilst Saturn, scowling from the meridian, only too surely ij
indicates the way of the Napoleons. It is worthy of notice that a very j)
popular book, Astrology as It Is, by a cavalry officer, published first in jl
1856, in commenting on the map of Louis Napoleon’s birth, distinctly |j
points out that in his latter days the powerful ruler of the great French j)
Empire would “ go the way of his uncle, the stars being very ominous ]j
of evih” A few years only elapsed, and the reverse at Sedan confirmed ij
the astrological prediction. Here is a fact—one only of many I could j)
quote—which speaks for itself. If Napoleon’s adventurous career had |j
ended other than it did, the scoffers might have pointed in self-satisfac- ij
tion to the result, but w the stars do not lie.” K
Just one word in conclusion as to prayer and destiny. I take it that j j
prayer is but a powerful expression of the human will, which thrown ij
forth may possibly reach some sympathising spirit who can or cannot inter- | j
fere on behalf of the petitioner. My psychological experiences of prayer— jl
I was brought up among the Methodists, and have therefore been well i
schooled—have taught me that prayer is a mysterious and potent agent, j)
but it is very fickle and uncertain in its results. Some men and women i
may in all sincerity pray till domesday without any apparent effect; ij
others seem by the mere act to bring upon themselves soothing and jl
beneficial influences. There is material for a long essay on this subject, i j
but I need not trespass on your space to trouble you with my views at ij
length. I am quite of opinion that when prayer is answered it is the . 11
prayer of a mediumistic person only, and when answered it is by some i
sympathising friend or spirit in the next world, who has been, perhaps, jj
accidentally brought into the sphere of thought disturbed by the i
medium’s intercession. That God or Christ Himself are directly jj
affected to interfere by the cry of a dissatisfied human soul may be pos- i
sible, but I think it is scarcely probably. j
Aldebaran. i
Aug. 20, 1877.   1
MESMERISM, j j
Sir,—Although mesmerism is undoubtedly an interesting science, and j j
one that has engaged no mean intellects in its study and application, it ij
still remains unpopular, and has almost fallen into disuse. I have read j I
with pleasure the able articles written by Capt. John James which have j j
appeared from time to time in The Spiritualist. Such contributions i|
from the pen of the friend and pupil of England’s most zealous mes- j (
merist—Dr. Elliotson—cannot but do good, inasmuch as they call j j
attention to this much- neglected subject, which is still unpopular, j
notwithstanding the work done by the late Mesmeric Infirmary in Lon- j j
don; by Dr. Esdaile in Calcutta—proving the efficacy of mesmerism as a j j
therapeutic agent of immenae value in the treatment especially of 4
certain intractable cases of disease; and by the recorded observations j
and contributions to the literature of the science by Ashburner, Gregory, i j
Newnham, Haddock, Braid, Lee, Townsend, Spencer T. Hall, and jj
others. Except to men of the last generation, a few advanced medical j
men, and Spiritualists generally, mesmerism is comparatively unknown, jj
The greater number of those who are prepared to admit that there may j
be something, aft$r all, in mesmerism, take little or no interest in the i
subject. Would it be wise to allow the matter to drop out of sight
after the years of uphill toil, and after the abuse these early workers in
the cause received whilst establishing the reality of mesmerism on
British soil ? They have left a record on the page of psychological
research which, though neglected, cannot easily be effaced. Shall those
researches, and this knowledge, acquired by patient-investigation, be
neglected and forgotten through the press of other matter-?
To the Spiritualist the subject is of the utmost importance, as it
throws a light from this side of the grave upon the methods of control,
trance-speaking, healing, and clairvoyance. To mesmerism the
Spiritualist at least should give his most -serious consideration, be it ever
so unpopular with the outside world. The psychologist, who prides
himself upon his ability to account for all the whims, fancies, and mental
idiosyncrasies peculiar to man, might well devote a little more attention
to this science and its claims, but unfortunately it is considered un¬
worthy the attention of the psychologist, and too frequently dismissed
with a wave of the hand, accompanied with some self-satisfied expres¬
sion, as “mere mind-reading,” “reflex action,” “abnormal condition of
the nervous system by disease,” “ self-induced condition.” The theory of
mere mind-reading, which I notice has been advanced at various meet¬
ings of the Psychological Society of Great Britain, is about as adequate
to explain the phenomena of clairvoyance in its several phases of alti¬
tude, prevision, introvision, and retrovision, as Dr. Carpenter’s “bladder
of dried peas ” is adequate to explain the facts and phenomena of
Spiritualism.
Among medical men mesmerism is unpopular, because unprofitable,
and how to make it profitable the English practitioner has yet to learn
from his Continental brother, or to leave the practical mesmerist to
reap the entire advantage. Among medical men, it is gradually
but surely making headway as a remedial agent. In France, Germany,
and Italy it is recognised and adopted for this purpose, and
is used with success in the direct treatment of diseases of the
brain, spinal cord, and nervous system, and indirectly and in con¬
junction with medicinal agents in the treatment of many functional and
, organic derangements. Upon the Continent the healer, or mesmerist,
undertakes the treatment and cure of disease under medical supervision,
and it is recommended there to patients in the same way the English
medical adviser would suggest hydropathy or galvanism. After they
have discovered here that within the legitimate boundary of their own
“ pathy ” they have no remedy for the disease, it is to be hoped that
after a while they will see their way clear to admit mesmeric therapeutics
within the limits of their philosophy and practice. There are now in
England many medical men and physicians who believe in mesmerism,
but they cannot adopt it, simply because it would take up too much of
their time, which means loss of fees. During the time they could treat
one patient, mesmerically, they would be able to visit, diagnose, and
prescribe for at least half a dozen patients, thus reducing the question to
a very grave one of £ s. d.
But there is another. Healers, as a rule, whatever their gifts, are
frequently ignorant of the first principles of physiology, and the rudi¬
ments of chemistry and medicine. They possess valuable healing gifts,
but as they are unfortunate enough to be uneducated, and to occasion¬
ally talk nonsense about magnetism and electricity being the healing
agents which they use, nothing, I am sure, causes mesmerism to be
more unpopular among medical men who have studied and devoted the
best years of their life to a university career and hospital practice.
If mesmeric healing is valuable, and I am prepared to contend and
prove it is, the sooner the doctors get it under their control for the
benefit of their patients the better. They do so elsewhere, why not in
England ? It is not reasonable to suppose that any healer will refuse to
receive a patient simply because his medical adviser refuses to give his
sanction, and it is also perfectly certain that patients who receive any
benefit from mesmeric treatment are sure to resort to it, and to recom¬
mend it to their friends.
The most prominent cause of the unpopularity of mesmerism at the
present time, seems to me to be the claims made on its behalf by some
of its unwise friends, and the gross misuse of it for the purposes of
amusement. There is a general idea that mesmerism is only an instru¬
ment for affording entertainment. This notion has been fostered by a
number of itinerant “ professors ” and mountebank lecturers, going
about giving what they call “mesmeric entertainments,” in which coarse
biological experiments, of the most vulgar and degrading description,
are introduced for the pleasure of the gaping crowd. The healing aspect
is utterly ignored, and intelligent people get disgusted with these per¬
formances. This I know from experience, during my winter tours
throughout Lancashire and Yorkshire. The people of the poorer localities,
especially, would sit very impatiently under the lectures, and felt quite
disappointed if they did not get their usual gratification of absurd and
laughable experiments.
A series of quiet and carefully-made experiments, held in private,
mesmeric seances held in connection with Spiritualists’ associations, will
do much to reinstate the science. We hope the day is not far distant
when its truths will be more fully admitted, when the grand spiritual
faculties of mind or soul, as displayed by its agency, will be more
thoroughly investigated and acknowledged, thereby helping us to dis¬
cover somewhat more of ourselves, and of those psychical powers that ever
and anon break through the dull covering of clay by which we are sur¬
rounded, giving us glimpses into the possibilities of our being, leading
us ever onward, and it is to be hoped heavenward, in the career of pro¬
gressive being. Mesmerism will then be reinstated in the position it
once occupied, and it will become less unpopular, when the men of
science and of medicine rescue it from the debris of ignorance and imbe¬
cility under which it is now hidden, and deal with it again in the spirit
of Professor Gregory, Dr. Newnham, and the man of Sherwood Forest,
Spencer Hall. James Coates.
12, Lime-street, Liverpool.
108
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 31,1877.
MBS. TAPPAN-RICHMONd’s LECTURES, !jl
Sir—Allow me, through your columns, to correct an unauthorised j(i
announcement which I am informed has been made in the North of j(i
England, that I am to be there this autumn, and deliver a series of ad- j)j
dresses. ! i (j
At the present time I have no idea of so doing, as I have an engage- iji
ment to speak permanently for the First Society of Spiritualists in in
Chicago until May, 1878, and perhaps longer. jsi
Agreeable as it would be to visit my friends and the places of my |) I
work and generous welcome in England, I cannot do so until sum- jrj
moned by the guidance of my spirit band, who know when and where i j j
it is best for me to labour. i) ]
I am here (New York) for a month of sea-air, and to fulfil a promise j( I
made last summer to lecture here again this season. In September I m
resume my duties as speaker for the above-mentioned society in ])j
Chicago, where the cause of Spiritualism is in a most favourable con- \ (j
dition of quiet growth and constantly increasing interest. i) i
I note with pleasure the improvement in, and success of, your )|
valuable journal. K-j
With Bind wishes to all my friends, and unfailing interest in the ! (j
cause of Spiritualism, believe me, as ever, yours very sincerely, j)|
Cora L. Y. Eichmond. |(|
(Permanent Address.} j/j
88, Ogden-avenue, Chicago, Illinois, U.S., August 8th, 1877.
THE EXPERIENCES OP INQUIRERS. hi
Sir,—I am impressed to reply to the Kev. William Miall’s letter in K
The Spiritualist of July 20th, hoping my experience may encourage him n
to continue his investigations, and feeling sure he will, in time, receive I) j
all the evidence he so earnestly desires. He says—“ It is about two ji|]
years since I began to give thought to the subject,” and it seems his §
investigations have, so far, been fruitless. !) I
For over a period of ten long years I patiently waited for convincing j( j
evidence of the continued existence of those whom we call “ dead.” I I:!
read every book upon the subject, and whenever opportunities offered I
consulted mediums ; but without the least success. I could not under¬
stand why what I so longed for was withheld from me, while others were j J
rejoicing in the knowledge that spirits can and do return to commune 11
with mortals. If it is true that “ our condition and belief opens and j1
shuts the avenues for spirits to reach us,” perhaps my earnestness and !|
extreme nervousness prevented my obtaining what came when I was j (
almost crushed with grief, and indifferent to everything pertaining to j1
this life. ' j j
About four years ago I lost the only friend I had in this world. I j]
thought I was prepared for the trial, as her illness was of such a nature
that I knew it was only a question of time. I knew we must part at
some time, but when the coffin lid shut from my view the face I had
loved so tenderly, and when I had clasped for the last time the dear
hands that always returned the pressure until then, all my boasted
fortitude forsook me. I felt that, perhaps after all, we were deluded,
and that the separation was final.
We had often conversed upon the subject of “ Spiritualism.” She
was inclined to ridicule it, but I had heard so much of a convincing
nature from those whose integrity I could not for a moment question,
that although my personal investigations had not proved satisfactory, I
was ready and willing to accept the testimony of those more fortunate.
One day, about a week after she left us, feeling utterly wretched, I put
on a thick veil to conceal my swollen eyes, and went out for a little
fresh air. I found myself near the home of a noted medium—a stranger
to me. I crossed her threshold for the first time. She requested me
to be seated at a small table, she seating herself opposite me. A per- ;,
feet shower of raps came on the wall, table, and stove. She requested ; j
me to write a message upon a slip of paper, which I did, being very care- j)
ful that she should not see what I had written. Turning the blank side ||
up I placed it upon a book-cover with a small piece of lead pencil. She I (
placed it upon her left hand, I putting my right one under hers, and held I)
it close under the top of the table ; her right hand was in full sight, the I)
room bathed in bright sunlight. In less than four seconds it was placed j \
in my lap, answered with the initials of my dear friend and addressed ! j
to me, my pet name written in full. There was no possible chance of \ \
deception, and I accepted it as coming from the spirit world.
Feeling happy and encouraged, I visited the same week two others, j
but will only mention the wonderful test which came through one. j)
The moment she entered the room, before seating herself, she said, H
—“ Have you a friend in the spirit-life named C ” ; at the same i)
moment taking a pencil she wrote the name in full. Then becoming |)
entranced addressed me in language that in her natural state she would j j
have been utterly incapable of using, being an uneducated, illiterate j j
person. I could fill pages with the overwhelming evidence which has !
come to me through this last-named medium. j
Out of fourteen but three mediums have given me anything reliable, j
but, thank God, at a late hour the truth came, and I am happy in the | (
knowledge that there are no dead. Death is no despot, but a welcome ;
emancipator, who introduces us to a grander life and more exalted op¬
portunities. Notwithstanding the absurdities and impositions with
which modern Spiritualism is encrusted, it has brought consolation and
happiness to millions, not by preaching faith, but by bringing facts
•—visible, tangible, undeniable facts—and no exposes, fraud, or bogus
materialisations, can crush out what is surely destined to be the religion
of the future. A. V. D.
Boston, United States, Aug. 7th, 1877.
MISS MARTINEAU AND THE CLAIRVOYANT EMMA.
Sir,—I read with much interest the case of clairvoyance recorded by
Harriet Martineau in your issue of the 17th inst.
•To corroborate Miss Martineau’s statements would be superfluous,
and in this instance they are given quite correctly as regards all the
actors in the case; but I hope I may be excused if I supplement her
account of them.
The then girl Emma is now the mother of a family, and I saw her
within the last twelve months standing at her cottage door in Bolton.
Many remarkable cases of Emma’s clairvoyance were the subject of
wonder in Bolton thirty years ago. I knew her well. She was far
from handsome; she was a total blank as regards learning, and as
uncouth a vehicle for spiritual manifestations as could well be found.
Mr. Haddock (or Dr. Haddock, as he was called in Bolton), by whom
she was employed, was a highly respected member of the Swedenborgian
church in Bolton, and often occupied its pulpit. Collusion or deception
in him was an impossibility. Persons of the Swedenborgian faith whom
I knew at that time were much interested in Emma’s revelations,
thinking they corroborated Swedenborg’s seership and teachings about
the spiritual or inner world; but this was before Spiritualism, as now
known, was heard of.
Mr. Charles Darbishire was neither fool nor fanatic. He was the first
mayor of Bolton, a borough and a county magistrate, and no man stood
higher in the estimation of his fellows than did Mr. C. Darbishire.
I will quote the last paragraph in your extract from the Biography, as
I think it seems to point with prophetic finger to things that have
recently occurred :—“ Of course I told Mr. C. Darbishire that I should
be ready to bear witness to the reality of Emma’s powers at that date—
so far, at least, as (what is called) ‘ thought reading ’ is concerned—in
case of her meeting with the too common treatment, the insult and
imputation of imposture, which are the weapons of the prejudiced, the
ignorant, and people who are too indolent to ascertain facts for them¬
selves. I implored him, however, to do all he could to prevent the girl
being over-worked or over-urged, and thus to save her from the danger
of filling up her failing power by materials from the imagination, and
at last resorting to tricks, deceiving herself and others rather than give
up.”
Does not this last portion point to the pit into which many mediums
have fallen and floundered? David Cordingley.
Bolton, August 27th.
THE TRUSTWORTHINESS OF SPIRIT MESSAGES.
Sir,—In answer to a correspondent in The Spiritualist of August
17th, who asks me what are my grounds for believing in the communi¬
cations given in Life Beyond the Grave, I must acknowledge that it is
a fair question, to which I am unable to give a satisfactory answer. I
ought to have said that the account therein contained would be inte¬
resting if one could be sure it was true. The medium through whom
the book was written tells Us that he hesitated a long time before giving
it to the public, but at last decided to do so from receiving corrobora¬
tion from other spirits through other mediums of much that had been
said. There is nothing, however, to prevent your correspondent from
submitting to some other control passages that look doubtful. The
spirit who dictated the book in question can communicate also through
Mrs. Woodforde. With that lady’s assistance he might be put through
| a cross-examination. He is a spirit evidently anxious to be of use, and
1 would, I have no doubt, be glad of the opportunity of substantiating
his statements. At all events, he tells us many things that we may say
we now know to be true—such, for instance, that a man finds himself
the same individual after shuffling off the mortal coil as before; that
the whole of his past life, much of which the man has entirely
forgotten, stands revealed before the spirit; and that the spirit, during
the sound sleep of the body, is awake and active. His explanations of
the philosophy of prayer, and of many other things, are quite in
accordance with what other spirits teach, therefore the novel statements
recorded may be true. With regard to realising what life beyond the
grave is like, that is impossible for us mortals ; but there is one thing
the spirits have taught us, and that is, that the dogma so tenaciously
held by mauy worthy people, of our scarlet sins being made white as
snow by an act of faith in a cruel execution perpetrated eighteen
centuries ago, is a tremendous mistake. How much longer is this
extraordinary superstition to prevail among men ?
J. H. Gledstanes.
Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Healing Mediumship,—Mr. George A. Fuller, of Bradford, New
Hampshire, writes to the Banner of Light:—u April 21st, I lectured
before the Keform Club of Lake Village. A very large audience
greeted me, and I trust some good was done. While at Lake Village
I had related to me a wonderful cure performed by Dr. J. E. Newton,
the healer, last winter, in Guilford, N. H. Mr. William L. Johnson, a
member of the Freewill Baptist Church, a highly respected man in the
community, related the facts to me as follows:—His daughter was
taken sick soon after the death of her sister. Previous to the death of
her sister she was a very lively and intelligent girl, but after this afflic¬
tion she became sober, ‘ moped ’ around the house, and gradually passed
into what the physicians pronounced hopeless insanity. Doctors tried
their remedies, and ministers prayed, but all in vain. Under the in¬
fluence of this kind of treatment she grew worse. Mr. Johnson was
talking with Mr. Cook one day about the sad condition of his daughter.
Mr. Cook advised him to write to Dr. J. E. Newton. He followed Mr.
! Cook’s advice, and one day some time after he had written his
daughter fell into a sound sleep, and when she awoke she was cured !
A few days after this Dr. Newton’s letter arrived, stating that upon a
certain day she would be healed, which corresponded with the day
upon which she fell asleep and awoke in perfect health. I asked Mr.
Johnson if he thought ‘ the devil ’ performed this cure, and he replied,
c I know not by what power it was done. I only know that my
daughter was sick, but now is healed. If the devil performed the cure,
all I can say is this, I am very much obliged to him! ”
August 31, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Scl.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
EOOTPALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OP ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Cd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OP SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. 'W.'
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the . Rev. G. P.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com-
E’.ete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
ord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 15s. .
PROOF PALPABLE OP IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and iSoience; the Spirit- and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative. Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OP THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OP THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Yala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth, Best edition, gilt, 10s. Cd.; cheap edition,
7s. od. ,
POEMS OP PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PEOPLE PROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 0d.
PSALMS OP LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OP NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OP SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
28'. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OP LIGHT PROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OP MRS. CONANT. 7s. Cd.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OP MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OP THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 0d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OP A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsland, 2s. Cd.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OP THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OP TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OP PACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OP RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OP INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OP THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
VOICES PROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by. the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer,”
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „ .
The Seer. „ III, „ . ,
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , .
The Thinker. «, V. „ . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
i Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) .
Philosophy of Special Providence - . .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . .
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . .
Morning Lectures • , . •
s. d,
. 15 o
.7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 5 0
.76
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
, 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
. 3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
24 u
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ....
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .zb
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.o. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Tnn. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 o
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fisko, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 C
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . , 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale , ; . . 10 0
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Other
Obseevees in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messes. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions oe the Peess. ’
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
iniention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be •
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un •
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id, post free.
W. H. Haerison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among.so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russe
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the. Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC" an
invaluable preparation for tl e Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
Loidon, W.O.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloine-square, S.W. r
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
August 3T, 1877.
The great..question of the day.
How to Prevent Premature Dentil from. disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
. hut True. ' * s!'’»
'How long are we to he left in sanitary matters at the mercy
. of the ignorant and careless? The ^states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever atone may be set
down as preventable. ..Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PBINOE
ALBERT THE - GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
^comparison to ours.
INQUESTS. —A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
: slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called; is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almokt universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
nvaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of END'S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PEEPABED FEOM SOUND KIPE FEUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
muts be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and ietter in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L A.C., London, writes:—
“I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on-
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“ Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. SojierbY'. Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly’for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about fpr twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says be never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, peice 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PH ARM AC IE DE BEBAL, 14, RUE
DELA PAIX
THE REALITY OF SPIRIT
PROVED FROM RECORDS AND WORKS ON THE
SUBJECT. p
BY “ M.A. ^OXOX:);” -
InteOductoey Chaptee.—The general aspect of the’subject:
its many-sidedness. Certain broad- views to be more par¬
ticularly illustrated in subsequent sections. The claims and
present position of Spiritualism.
-• SECTION I.
Histoeical.—A retrospect of the history of the subject, illus¬
trated from Epes Sargent’s Planchette (reviewed), Mrs.
Hardinge Britten’s ' History of American Spiritualism,
Wallace’s Miracles and 'Modern Spiritualism, Howitt’s
History of the Supernatural, Shorter’s Two Worlds,' Judge
. Edmond's Tracts. \r .
SECTION II.
Scientific.—Dealing with some aspects of the phenomena of
Spiritualism in reference to theories and explanations that
have been given. Hudson Tuttle’s Arcana of Spiritualism,
(reviewed). Hare’s Spiritualism Scientifically Explained,
Crooke’s Itesearches, De. Morgan’s From Matter to Spirit.
SECTION III.
Phenomenal.—Dealing with published accounts of form-
manifestation, especially from Olcott’s People from the
Other World (reviewed), Epes Sargent’s Proof Palpable of
Immortality, Wolfe’s Startling Facts in Modern Spirit¬
ualism.
SECTION IV.
Religious.—Showing the religious side of the subject as
brought out in Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modern
Spiritualism (reviewed), Dale Owen’s Address to the Clergy
in his Debateable Land, S. C. Hall’s Use of Spiritualism.
SECTION V.
ClAievoyANCE.—Dealing with the inherent powers of the
incarnate human spirit, especially that of clear-seeing or
supersensuous perception, as exemplified in simple dear-
sight or psychometrically in Denton’s Sold of Things, and
Andrew J. Davis’s Magic Staff (reviewed), Cahagnet’s
Arcana de la vie luture.
SECTION VI.
Occultism.—Dealing further with certain occult powers of
the human spirit, and with phenomena attributable to them,
as shown in Art-Magic, Ghost-Land (reviewed), and further
illustrated by records of phenomena hitherto unpublished.
THE TRANS-CORPOREAL ACTION OF SPIRIT,
Especially dueing Sleep: Immediately Befoee, and at
the Time of Death: and undee some Steong Passion
oe Emotion.
[This will form a considerable section, distinct from the rest
of the book: and will include a large number of facts, new
and old, arranged on the principle of reference to their deter¬
mining cause, where such can be ascertained.]
NOTE.—The above scheme of the book of essays and
reviews previously announced, is a draft only, subject to any
alterations that may be deemed' desirable. It is published
in compliance with a request from many sources for informa¬
tion as to the title and scope of the work. The - title now
affixed explains what is intended. The scope of the work is
to notice some aspects of Spiritualism as they are presented in
the works of other authors; and so to point out and summarise
the best books on the subject.
Though the plan may be modified, it will not be substan¬
tially changed.
The sections which deal with the.phenomenal and religious
aspects will be so arranged as not to trench on the works,
announced for future publication—Spirit Teachings and
Researches in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism-.
M. A. OXON.
The volume will be published at 10s. The names of sub¬
scribers should be sent to F. Pefci^al, 15, Conduit-street, W'.
London, May, 1877. ^ . -
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found'in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number. of each- sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a. hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, blit when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets Of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling, like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,’? one means “No,” and two
mean ‘.‘Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. . If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to, the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get .the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?’’ When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen^ questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, a,s the jtllege^ spirits are found to exhibit all the
yirtuesimd all the failings of humanity.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OE
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, .
By the late Wm. Gbegoby, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University, I
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d, per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
•—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain,
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—^Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV :—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
-—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep.-etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Betrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of ConscioUshesS'in Mes-
merised Persons—^Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method aiid its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible'State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr.- Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesntttric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World. ■• •
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology-
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these'Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of‘ Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on it.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals. 'etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Menticalwith the.
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence Which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAJPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Symjiathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—^Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulisnU-Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylie Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—^Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
. CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success-in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER Xll:—Phenomena Observed in the' Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion On Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments" With'and Without • Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes,*hr by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when. Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mitfror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
• CHAPTER XIII —Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV —Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI —Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W/!.C.
F HUDSON, photographer, earnestly desires
• EMPLOYMENT that wjll keep him and his family
from want. Having no premises that can be used for photo¬
graphy, he is forced to look to other means of gaining a liveli¬
hood, and is willing to undertake any other sort of work suited
to his capacity. Address—25, Covent-gardens, Notting-hill.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references;- Address C.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.C.
EOR SALE, a few copies of Lang’s y^ork on
Mesmerism, its History, Phenomena- and Practice.
Edinburgh, 1813. Price 4s. 6d., post free. F. C. Lachlan, 22A,
King-street, St. James’s, S."W.
A LADY desiring occasional companionship,
offers residence, free of charge, to an agreeable Lady
Medium. M. A., 2, Scarsdale-viUas, Kensington.
A LADY interested in the phenomena of
Spiritualism, would be happy to communicate with a
limited number of ladies and gentlemen, who would like to
join a private and select .circle with professional and private
mediums. M. A., 2, Scarsdale-villas, Kensington.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveeidge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O. •
