RffiGISTKRED A.S A. NEWSPAPER.
flirts! ^tosjjapjr txrmvtrfcit foiijr Sjjhiiiralism in <Snai §rifatr(.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule’
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON :
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 282. (VOL. XII.—No. 8.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
©omenta.
Spirit Guardianship  ... ...    >..25
A New Flower-Producing Medium. By Epes Sargent 25
Buddhism in Ceylon. By J. M. Peebles ... ...  26
Spiritual Individuals in Materialistic Families  27
Spiritualism and the Theosophists. By Charles Carleton
Massey   ... .'  ... ... ••• 28
The Doctrine of Annihilation—Personal Experiences in
• Mediumship. By the Baroness Adelina von Vay (Coun¬
tess Wurmbrand) 29
Recent Manifestations through Mrs. Kate Fox Jencken’s
Mediumship. By Henry D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-
at-Law      SO
The “ Bell Test—^Manifestations by Spirit-Power Inside a
Nailed Box  ..30
Correspondence:—M. Gustave De] Veh’s Account of a
Seance—Physical Manifestations—Dream or No Dream?
—The Influence of the Lives of Professed Religionists—
Theological Opinions—The Views of the Theosophists—
“Spirits and Mediums”—"What Truth is there in
in Astrology?—What is the Intelligence?—Slate-
. Writing—The Deceiving Spirit Theory—Spiritualism
among the Hindus—Dr. Slade’s Visit to Vienna  31
Answers to Correspondents 36
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in Liverpool, 27 ; Suffering for
Conscience’ Sake, 27 ; Rifts in the Veil, 27 ; Spiritualism
in Dalston, 27 ; Reception at Dr. Speer’s, 27 ; Physical
Phenomena   ... 27
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL. oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
Of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science" (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
VVallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson,,F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Manyat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Faliyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London "; Mr. S. 0.
Hall FS.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr H D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.: Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ((United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Rlchardson.'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96v Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York": Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News-
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O,
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for January, 1878.
Friday, Wth.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ j. Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
W. Eglinton.
Monday, 14t/».—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
Tuesday, \5th.—Inspirational Address, at 8 p.m. Mr.
W. J. Colville.
Wednesday, 10th.—Inquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Mr. W.
Eglinton.
Friday, 10th.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
W. Eglinton.
Tuesday, 22nd.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Inspirational Address at 8 p.m. Mr.
W. J. Colville.
Friday, 25th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Monday 20th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
Tuesday 20fh.—Inspirational Address, at 8 p.m, Mr.
W. J. Colville.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION.
On Monday, 14th, Mr. T. Shorter will read a paper upon
“ Form Manifestations; are they due to Embodied or Bis-
embodied Spirits ? ’’ Time, 7.45 p.m.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-,
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, ffic., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
Mr. MORSE WILL SPEAK AT THE
FOLLOWING PLACES:—Liverpool: Sunday, Jan.
13,11 and 6.30; Hyde: Monday, January 14, 7.30 ; Rhodes:
Tuesday, January 15, 7.30 ; Manchester, Wednesday, January
16,7.30; New Mills: Thursday, January 17, 7.30; Littleborough:
Friday, January 18, 7.30; Oldham: Sunday, January 20, 2:30
and 6.30 ; Rochdale : Monday, January 21st, 7.30 ; Burnley:
Tuesday, January 22, 7.30; Bolton: Wednesday, January 23,
7.30 ; Bury: Thursday, January 24,7.80 ; Manchester: Friday,
January 25, 7.30. John Lament, President; Charles Parsons,
Secretary.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modem Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W,
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell's Translations),
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863), From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
Just published, price fis., richly gilt,
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useftil book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism;
CONTENTS.
I ’Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—" O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death. ” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery MilJer. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta ”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burae—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna (Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D .—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position iu
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
F akirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science, By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F.R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-stoeet, W.C.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saying you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms :—18c, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, <fcc., &a.;
post free, seven stamps.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O]
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 18, 1878.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Colder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S-W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Dfdsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street,.Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North. Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, 'W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Einchlev, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Conned.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa. Cairns-rd..New’Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Harcom-t Lodge, 86, LOughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Tiros., late of H.M.S. “ Malapar,” Portsmouth,
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, ,S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R„ 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W. a
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Sbooter’s-hill. Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson,' Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, 'S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W,
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Altred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, ,T. J. Warwick-eottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, 0., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sir'awhridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. II., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , i, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Thesbald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss KIslingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Ills Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rasslm Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmleld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Yeh, Bischoflsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, wieq, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton,.Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W, H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria. Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq,, Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Yernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Phlladelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes,Esq.,33, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2,Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
M. de Bassompierre, 285, ChausseeSt- Pierre,Etterbeek,Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Ruo du Midi,
Britssels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Hue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel-de 1’Athenee, Hue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan,Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Eosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe", Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, 'Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9., Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.Tlallock, 54, Denblgh-street, Belgraive-r'oad, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road. S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Afriea.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spirifer-ForsCher Society, BudajPesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23, . i
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-iane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad.'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Just published, 2s. paper covers ; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE.: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. IIL By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Bbothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Tbubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
A STROLOGY, a popular sketch of Celestial
-UA. Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J. Pearoe, author
of the Weather Guide - Book, &c. Price Is. London:
Berger, Newcastle-street, Strand. Sent post free by the
author on receipt of twelve penny stamps; address, 3, Cedars-
terrace, Lavender-hill, S.W.
“ This work is the best that has ever been printed to convey
to those unacquainted with Astrology, a plain, simple, and
easily understood idea of what it really is ; and before under¬
taking to learn anything about it by any of my own works, I
•advise my readers to obtain and peruse this very excellent
little publication.”—Zadkiel.
N.B.—The author gives private instruction in Astrology.
REICHENBACH’S RESEARCHES, by the
late William Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E. 455 pp.,
demy 8vo. Second-hand, in very good condition. Scarce.
10s. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London. W.C.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
(fc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At. home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment^ 
SPIRITUAL HEALING OF DISEASE,
BY JAMES REGAN,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, W.O.,
AND
141, CAMBRIDGE STREET, PIMLICO, S.W.
N.B.—Patients desiring personal treatment will please
make appointment by letter, which: will receive prompt
attention. Curative appliances sent Xb those residing at a
distance on application.
MR. W. EGLINTON
Has returned to town, and may be addressed,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
 S.W.  
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN,
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O.
Sours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours,
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes.   
MADAME LLANCORIC,
At home from 11 till 4, for Music, Trance, Clairvoyance, and
Automatic Writing.
25, GUILFORD STREET, RUSSELL SQUARE.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired).
For ail particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.O.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
RS. WOODFORDE, 90, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, from 12 to
5 p.m. For visits of friendship, from 8 to 10 p.m.
MISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may he inspected. Appointments by
letter. 121, Marylebone-road, London, N.W.
"OROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER’S pamphlet
Jl on Curative Mesmerism, price 6d.; also a pamphlet on
Clairvoyance, price 4d. To be had from the author, 10,
Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSENGER,
ALMANAC and EPHEMERIS for 1878, containing
Predictions of the Weather and Mundane Events, Birthday
Notes, &e., &c. Post free, 7d. ; with Ephemeris, Is. Id.
Raphael's Guide to Astrology, containing rules and infor¬
mation whereby any person may calculate and judge a
nativity. The most original and simple work on Astrology
ever published. Cloth, gilt, 3s. London: J. E. Catty 12
Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM-
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows then’ analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Gre.at Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
mHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
L UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
88, Great Russell-street, W.O.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Is.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of bis produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : COLBY AND RICH.' London ; Spirit¬
ualist Office.
jL xJ f|| nvfo
Volume Tweeye. Kumber Three.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 18th, 1878.
SPIRIT GUARDIANSHIP. j
Theke is something very attractive in the idea of the con- !
stant presence of guardian angels around erring mortals, I
and it is an idea which finds expression in connection with !
nearly all the more advanced religions on the face of the j \
earth. Nevertheless, it is one which may be accepted to a j
demoralising extent. In exceptional cases Spiritualists may j
he found with little individuality of their own, who trust all j
their worldly and other interests to their “ spirit guides,” |
and who, in the majority of cases, find themselves in trouble, |
if not utterly ruined, in consequence of so doing. Were j
this not so, men and women would, in the process of time, i
cease to deserve to be called such, and would be but j
walking automata under the control of unseen intel- H
ligences. Rather than to accept such a position, it ought l{
to be a source of satisfaction to a man that he walks |
so strictly in adherence to true principles, that he does f
not consume much of the time of guardian spirits in look- i!
ing after and wet-nursing him; and that instead of f
drawing them earthwards in constant attendance upon |(
himself, he has left them at liberty to more freely work out I!
their own advancement in a higher stage of existence. Some j
years ago two American Spiritualists were in London who
professed to live wholly by faith in the spirits, and they !
stated wonderful examples of the efficacy of the plan at
critical moments. But they lived constantly on the brink j
of starvation, were not particularly useful in their walk in j
life, and were as incessant a source of anxiety to their mortal |
friends as to those out of the body. It would have been j
better for themselves and for everybody else, had they made |
more use of the faculties which God had given them. The |
character of the spirits in relationship with a man, can be j
better proved by the fruits of his work in life than by anything j
else, and if an individual is not doing much which tends to |
leave the world happier and better than he found it, the j
spirits about him are not worth much, however high-sounding !
may be the names they give.
A NEW FLOWER-PRODUCING MEDIUM. |
BY EPES SABSENT.
The testimony of Mr. A. R. Wallace to the flower-produc- I
ing phenomenon, through medial power, was amply con- j
firmed yesterday, December, 30th, 1877, at a seance at my
house. About eleven o’clock in the forenoon I had a wholly j
unexpected call from Mr. James M. Choate, and Mr. A. R. j
Dunton. Mr. Choate, a young man of about twenty-six, is j
the medium.
Mr. Dunton, of Camden, Maine, whom I met personally j
for the first time at the Banner of Light office, about a fort- !
night ago, at a stance with Mr. Choate, has long been known
to me by reputation. He is about seventy years old, and j
the author of a system of writing and a series of writing-
books, introduced very generally into our American schools ;
so that his character for respectability and intelligence is j
pretty widely known in this country.
Almost from early youth Mr. Dunton has studied and
practised, not professionally but as a matter of curiosity, j
those feats of legerdemain by which our famous prestidiqita-
teurs deceive the eye. But I never met the j uggler yet, who j
would sit down, as Mr. Dunton has done on several occa- j
sions with me, in one’s own library, face to face, not two
feet distant, and perform the most marvellous and astound- I
ing feats of a master in sleight-of-hand, making everything i
he handles disappear and then reappear in most unexpected |
places.
Mr. Dunton, like myself, had met Mr. Choate for the first I
time at the seance at the Banner oj Light office, to which I j
have referred. That seance, through no fault of the medium, I
was not wholly satisfactory, although four pinks were pro¬
duced under'very stringent conditions. Mr. Dunton, however,
who had not examined the person of the medium before the
sitting, was not satisfied; and he showed me by a few sleight-
of-hand feats, how easy it would be for a so-called medium
to conceal a few flowers, unless closely watched by an
expert.
And an expert—not a mere amateur—Mr. Dunton clearly
is. He is admitted to be such by some of the most accom¬
plished jugglers that have ever visited this country; by
Blitz, Herr Alexander, Young, Anderson, and Hermann
himself. Still Mr. Dunton has never given exhibitions of
his skill for money; they have all been for the amusement
of his friends, and for the purpose of showing the broad dis¬
tinction there is between the phenomena, got by medial
power, and the tricks of sleight-of-hand performers. He is
thus a notorious marplot at all exhibitions where there is a
pretence to show up Spiritualism ; for by a few explanations
he makes clear to an audience the essential difference be¬
tween the two classes of manifestations. The juggler must
have either the use of his hands or the aid of a confederate;
the genuine medium gets phenomena without the aid of
either.
I am thus particular in my account of Mr. Dunton, be-
| cause, after frequent and faithful investigations, carried on
| for more than a quarter of a century, he is a full believer,
| not only in the phenomena, but in the theory, of Spirit-
i ualism; and because he is an invaluable assistant at the
] examination of a medium, like Mr. Choate, who claims that
I the flowers are produced in his presence through no conscious
I agency of his own.
A week ago Mr. Dunton satisfied himself at a meeting at
| Amory Hall, in Boston, that the phenomena through Mr.
I Choate were genuine; but wishing further confirmation, he
1 called upon him yesterday (Sunday) without any warning,
| and brought him to my house without giving me any inti-
| mation of his intention. Accompanied only by Mr. Dunton,
! Mr. Choate came, bringing only his canopy with him, in a
] small bundle, which he allowed us to unwrap.
Let me here give the history of the canopy. Mr. Newton,
a wealthy and well-known investigator, of New York, being
| desirous of testing Mr. Choate’s mediumship to the utmost,
I conceived the plan of a simple cylindrical curtain, or canopy,
| to be suspended from the chandelier in the centre of a room,
| thus dispensing with the condition of darkness for the spec¬
tators, and forming a little darkened chamber or interior,
just wide enough for the reception of a chair on which the
medium might sit. This admirable arrangement is a great
advance upon all previous conditions at the development of
these floral phenomena. By it the necessity of darkening
windows and fastening doors is obviated, for the spectators
sit in the full light around the canopy, and all opportunity
of introducing flowers fraudulently is cut off. Mrs. Newton
herself made the canopy (now used by Mr. Choate) consist¬
ing of three thicknesses of cloth, the external cloth being
of a dark claret colour. This canopy is pinned to a hoop
about two feet in diameter, and then being hung by a hook
in its closed top to a chandelier, the required arrangements
are all speedily made. Thus it was yesterday in my library
—a room about eighteen feet by twenty in size, and ten feet
high, having a large bay-window, and another, the four panes
| of which are each three feet three inches by eighteen inches
| in size.
We called in our neighbour, Mr. John Wetherbee, well-
| known to Spiritualists, and then our party, exclusive of Mr.
j Choate, consisted of six gentlemen and two ladies. All pre-
| sent, except Messrs. Dunton, Wetherbee, and Choate, being
| immediate relatives of my wife or myself, to whom the fact
i of the proposed seance was communicated only ten minutes
26
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 18, 1878.
before it took place. No other person, except our three
domestics, was in the house, and no other person came into
the room, or the hall, and two rooms adjoining, all the time
Mr. Choate was in the house. Thus he was virtually alone,
without a friend or possible confederate, and surrounded by
eight sharp-eyed investigators, who would have driven him
forth in disgrace on detecting the first symptom of intended
fraud.
Seven of us having thoroughly examined and hung the
canopy, the medium standing by, and leaving us to do what
we pleased, but he being the while closely watched by Mr.
Dunton, four of the gentlemen took Mr. Choate into an ad¬
joining room, and there saw him divested of all his clothing,
shoes, and stockings, excepting his shirt. Then I saw Mr.
Dunton lift the shirt and pass his hand over every square
inch of the medium’s body, before and behind, while the
medium was made to extend his arms out straight, and keep
them motionless. He then thoroughly examined every part
of his clothing. Though it was a chilly day he had brought
no overcoat, for I regret to say he was not the owner of
one. We satisfied ourselves that not a leaf nor a flower
could possibly be concealed on any part of his person or
dress. He even examined his shoes to see if there could
possibly be a hollow in the sole for the concealment of so
much as a leaf.
During our absence the ladies and the other two gentle¬
men had again tested every square inch of the canopy, and
satisfied themselves that no flowers were hidden within its
linings. The conditions were perfect, and the medium even
offered, if he desired it, to put on another suit of clothes,
belonging to some one of us; but this, under the circum¬
stances, we did not regard as lending any additional confir¬
mation.
We now formed the circle, and the medium took his seat
within the canopy. In about five minutes, after we had sat
in conversation, he burst forth into a sort of prayer or invo¬
cation, remarkable for the fluency with which it was uttered,
for the beauty of the language, and the appropriateness of
the thoughts, and delivered with an earnestness and fervour
which I think an impostor would have found it hard to.
simulate with success. It was one of the few medial utter¬
ances I have heard where there was nothing to offend the
taste or shock the reason of a person of some literary cul¬
ture. It was pervaded with a high religious and poetic
spirit, and the references to the floral character of the mani¬
festations were full of tenderness, pathos, and refined
thought. The prayer lasted about ten minutes, and as
soon as it was ended the medium drew apart the opening
of the canopy and came out. We found on the floor two
English violets, perfectly fresh and fragrant, apparently just
gathered; a white carnation pink, fresh and fragrant; a red
pink, somewhat loose in its leaves, as if it had remained
too long on the stalk; some sprigs of white hyacinth, fresh
and perfect; a pretty large blush rose, slightly defective in
one external leaf, as if from the work of an insect, but
otherwise without a flaw. They all rest in a glass of water
on the paper before me while I write this. The rose is out
in full bloom this morning, and is still fresh, delicate, and
very fragrant.
We have every reason to believe that the phenomenon was
genuine. The conditions could not well have been more
stringent; but Mr. Choate, now that his confidence has
been won by our kind reception of him, offers to come
again, and submit to any conditions that ingenuity can
devise. I have engaged him to give us another sitting.
Thus far I can fully endorse the remarks of Miss Mary
A. Newton, of New York, who writes under date of Dec.
15th, 1877 :—“Mr. Choate is more willing to submit to
conditions suggested by his investigators than any physical
medium with whom we have ever been acquainted, and, in
view of this fact, is entitled in a greater degree to our con¬
fidence and respect.”
Mr. Choate is a native of Boston, and, as far as I can
learn, has always borne a good character. He has had a
hard struggle. with poyerty, for his father died four days
before his son was born; and the young man now bravely
supports his aged mother, his wife, and infant child, and in
doing this he manfully submits to much personal privation
and self-sacrifice. lam strongly encouraged to believe that we
have in him a sincere and powerful medium fora most interest¬
ing and beautiful class of phenomena, and I hope that he will
be sympathetically cared for by all earnest Spiritualists, and
thus will be enabled soon to place this floral phenomenon
on the same basis of certainty where “ psychography,” or
the slate-writing manifestation now impregnably rests.
No, 68, Moreland-street, Boston, U.S.A., Dec. 31st, 1877.
BUDDHISM IN CEYLON.
BY J. M. PEEBLES.
Among several distinguished men of Colombo may be named the
Hon. James Alwis, a member of the Legislative Council, a Jurist, a
Fellow of the Royal Asiatic Society, and author of several books.
Though a native Singhalese and Buddhist by birth, he was educated a
Christian, and is connected with the English Church. During an
afternoon’s conversation with this gentleman under the portico of his
palatial residence, I took the opportunity of questioning him concern¬
ing the present position of Buddhism, the nature of the Yeddahs, and
the prevalence of Oriental occultism. It was a rich mine that I struck.
Here are some of the specimens :—
•“ Is Buddhism declining, or dying out, upon the island ? ”
“It is not, I am sorry to say. On the contrary, the Buddhists are
repairing some of their temples; and within a few years some of the
priests have become aggressive, gaining ground previously lost.”
“ Are the ‘ priests all grossly ignorant,’ as a returned missionary
recently said at a public meeting in London ? ”
“ Taking as a standard the physical sciences, and literature as found
in English universities, many of the priests are decidedly illiterate,
devoting themselves entirely to their religion. Others, again, are not
only really learned, but exceedingly shrewd and capable.”
H Are Buddhists naturally superstitious ? ”
“ Decidedly so. They believe in omens, signs, spells, demons, pre¬
monitions, and astrology. They nearly all have their horoscopes cast,
soon after birth, to know what profession or business they are best
designed for, and what their general destiny is to be. Some have them
recast frequently, that they may know what to expect each month and
day of the month.”
Gathering from this reply and other remarks that he had some con¬
siderable faith in astrology, I made bold to ask—
“Have you any faith, sir, in what here in the East is termed
astrology ? ”
“ I have, although recently my faith has been a little shaken; still,
I must admit that I have had wonderful things foretold me by astro-
logists. I remember that once my consulting astrologist, pointing to a
bad combination of planets on a certain day of a future month, warned
me to be cautious on that day, and remain at home. But in the multi¬
plicity of legal matters the words of warning, though noted down at
the time, had entirely slipped from my memory. . .. Riding in my
carriage on the afternoon of that day, the horse sprang, and I felt as
though a thunderbolt struck my head. I was at once insensible. The
horse had taken fright, and in an instant, seemingly, the carriage was
upset, and I was thrown into the ditch, severely injured, and taken
up for dead.... I blamed myself, for I had been fully warned of the
unfortunate day. Facts of this and of a similar character are almost
innumerable in this country.”
“ It is my intention, when reaching Kandy, to go still further into
the country to see the Yeddahs—that tribe reported to be too low in
the scale of beings to laugh. Have you ever seen them, sir ? ”
“ Oh, yes ; they are a very low, wild people—the aborigines pro¬
bably—who reached this island in remote antiquity from the extreme
south of India. But of this there is no certainty. It is not true that
they ‘never laugh,’ and have i no notion of music.’ I have seen them
laugh, and they have a knowledge of such music as corresponds to
their own wild, uncultivated natures. . . . By going out to see the
Yeddahs you may see something of polyandria — one woman
married to several husbands. ... It is still practised to some
extent, and occasionally comes into the law courts in connection with
estates.” . . .
“ Are you acquainted with, or have you witnessed anything re¬
lating to Spiritualism 1 ”
“ If you will define what you mean by Spiritualism, perhaps I shall
be able to answer you more intelligibly.”
“ Spiritualism implies a belief in the Infinite Spirit, and a conscious
intercourse with spirits—that is, the spirits of mortals called dead.”
“ Oh, if that is what you denominate Spiritualism, doubtless a great
majority of Asiatic people are Spiritualists. It enters in some form
into nearly all the concerns of life, secular and religious. I could relate
many accounts of spirits returning into our midst.”
“Will you do me the favour of putting some of them into writing,
that I may from time to time use them 1 ”
“ I shall take great pleasure in so doing.”
The following is the first of these written statements :—
11 Dr. Peebles,—My Dear Sir,—I send you the particulars of the case I
mentioned to you yesterday. It was a fine, clear evening, many years ago, a
day after I had gone to Negembo to act for Mr. John Selby, as district judge
of that place, that I joined that gentleman at a game of cricket. We finished
our game, and were, in the dusk of the evening, coming to the Government
House, where we all lived, when Mr. Selby, who was behind us, came rushing
past us, and beckoned to me to come fast. He was rather excited, and desired
me to be good enough to consult my watch and tell him the time. I did so.
He then sat down at my writing table, took a sheet of note paper, and wrote
down, fj My wife died thirteen minutes to six o'clock’ (month, &c., which I forgot).
This slip of paper he put into an envelope, sealed it, and got me and another
Jan. 18, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST
27
gentleman then present to put our signatures to the fact therein stated. We
did so. And he then explained to us that his -wife, who had been long ill in
England, had appeared to him at the time above indicated, under the shadow
of the big Banian, and that he had not the slightest doubt that she had died at
that hour, and that it was her spirit which he had seen. In consequence of
this persuasion, Mr. Selby, who was to leave Ceylon in a few days for England,
postponed his trip for a short time. And when the mail had arrived, a month
or more after the date above given, he showed me his private letters, and they
fully confirmed the prediction of his wife’s death, within a few hours, as I
remember, of the time he stated he had seen his wife under the tree.
“ P.S.—You may make any use of these facts. “ James Alwis.
“ Colombo, Ceylon.”
Banner of Light.
Next Monday, at 8.15 p.m., Dr. J. M. Peebles will give an address to
the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism on his travels in
foreign countries.
Last Monday Miss Showers, the well-known non-professional
medium, was married to Mr. Nugent James, son of Captain John James,
of Tottenham.
SriKiTUALisTs in Australia do not now seem to be so far from their
friends in England as was once the case. The splendid and popular new
direct line of steamships, The Orient, has brought London within forty
days of Melbourne, and submarine telegraphy gives facilities for hourly
communication.
Spiritualism in Liverpool.—Mr. J. J. Morse, according to announce¬
ment, delivered on Sunday last two eloquent inspirational lectures, on
“ Spiritualism in the Past,” and “ Spiritualism in the Future,’’ before
the members of the Liverpool Psychological Society, at their rooms in
the Camden Hotel, Camden-street.—Mr. John Priest, in connection
with the Sunday Lecture Society, is delivering- a course of lectures
every Sunday evening at Meyerbeer Hall, on “ Scientific Thought in
Relation to Philosophical Subjects.” These lectures have attracted
fair audiences during the winter.—Mr. J. Coates, the mesmerist,
through a mistake of his agent, is compelled to finish his lectures on
Saturday, the 19 th inst. In the meantime he gives three entertain¬
ments, for charitable purposes, under the patronage of the Mayor, Mr.
A. B. Forwood, and Mr. Coates’ masonic brethren.
Suttering for Conscience’ Sake.—Mr. Henry Pride, well known
in Liverpool Spiritualistic circles, has been fined 20s. and costs for the
fourteenth time, because he cannot conscientiously permit his children
to be vaccinated. Last Monday’s Liverpool Daily Post says:—“ Henry
Pride, who is constantly appearing before the county magistrates for
non-compliance with the vaccination law, was again summoned on
Saturday for neglecting to have two children vaccinated. The defendant
said that if action was taken against him in the future as it had been
in the past, his fines would amount to 10s. a week. The bench gave
him to understand that if he chose to break the law, he must take the
consequences. He was fined 20s. and costs, with the alternative of
fourteen days’ imprisonment. Mr. Pride suggested that it should be
with hard labour, and the bench intimated that if he had a wish in that
direction it could be gratified. Another person, who had also been
previously convicted, was fined in the same amount for a similar
offence.”
“Rifts in the Yeil.”—The new Spiritualistic book, Lifts in the
Veil, contains some of the finest specimens of the literature of Spirit¬
ualism, and deals chiefly with the religious and philosophical aspects of
the question. The materials at command have not nearly been
exhausted in this book, in which also several good writers are unrepre¬
sented, so another work of the same kind will probably follow at no
distant date. Lifts in the Veil contains a long original poem, “ My
Saint,” by Florence Marryat, never previously published. It also
contains long essays on the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.” Another leading feature
of the book consists in some amusing writings given through the
mediumship of Mr. James, of Brattleborough, Vermont, claimed to
have been written by the spirit of the late Charles Dickens; they
display all the genius, humour, and style of the departed novelist,
thereby furnishing strong approximate evidence of the identity of the
communicating intelligence. Several poems by Miss Burke, displaying
much ability, are included in the work. The book is handsomely got
up, and is an ornament to any drawing-room table.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—On Thursday evening last week, the
ordinary monthly session of the Council of the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism, was held at their rooms, 53, Sigdon-road,
Hackney Downs, London, E., under the vice-presidency of Mrs. Corner.
The other members present were Messrs. J. Tozeland, R. A. March, R.
Pearce, and Mr. T. Blyton. Letters of general interest were read from
Mr. Edwin Dottridge, Mr. A. L. Elder, Miss Emily Fitz-Gerald, Mr.
H. E. Frances, Herr Christian Reimers, and Mr. Samuel H. Quarmby.
Presentations, received- since the previous ordinary meeting of the
Council, were laid upon the table and accepted, with a vote of thanks to
the respective donors, viz.:—Miss Kislingbury, Miss F. J. Theobald,
Mr. Wm. White, Rev. Samuel Watson, and Mr. T. Blyton. Mr. C. C.
Massey was unanimously elected an honorary member. The framing of
the report and statement of accounts for the past year was referred to a
sub-committee. The agenda for the current month was submitted and
approved, and Miss Kislingbury’s visit, announced for the 21st instant,
was deferred, at her wish, to the 4th proximo. The Council then ad¬
journed.—Mr. W. J. Colville delivered the first of two special inspira¬
tional discourses, at the rooms of the Dalston Association, on Monday
evening last, with Mr. T. Blyton in the chair. The subject of the dis¬
course was c The New Epoch,” A number of questions was replied to
at the close of the discourse, to the satisfaction of the querists. The
subject selected for the next discourse (on the 28th instant) was “ The
Future of Human Existence on Earth,”
SPIRITUAL INDIVIDUALS IN MATERIALISTIC FAMILIES.
Some remarks on the above subject, inserted in an' article
published in these pages about a fortnight ago, have mani¬
festly, from letters we have received in relation thereto,
touched upon facts at the root of sorrow in many a home.
An individual endowed with spiritual sensitiveness, and the
absolute knowledge that the objects for which materialistic
people strive, and the motives from which they act are low
and degrading, is in a pitiful position when surrounded by
such elements in his own family. What is the best remedy ?
Separation, say we, wherever it is possible. The various
members of a family, divided by these great principles,
cannot help their own nature and instincts ; but if the one
section intolerantly tries to force the other to its own modes
of thought and action, it merely means misery to both.
A Spiritualist residing at Hyeres, Var, France, writes that he
would be glad to hear of others in his locality, and to meet them.
The Mr. and Mrs. Everett, who recently gave public entertainments
relating to Spiritualism, in this country, are now in the United States.
“ Since Christmas, a house in Dover-street, inhabited by a noble
earl, has been haunted. No sooner does the owner go to bed than the
wall opposite appears brilliantly lighted up, and the figure of a ghost
glares down upon the astounded nobleman.”—Truth, Jan. 10.
On ^Sunday next, Mr. W. J. Colville will lecture at 429, Oxford-
street, London, on “What is Salvation! Will all Men be Saved ?”
Service at 11.15 a.m. At 3.15 p.m., he will deliver an inspirational
discourse and poem on subjects chosen by the audience ; he will also
lecture on Wednesday, Jan. 23rd, at 8 p.m.
SI Mr. J. Coates will give a Phrenological entertainment at the
Spiritualists’ Progressive Lyceum, Sowerby Bridge, in aid of the funds
of that institution, on Saturday, the 26th inst., and on Sunday, the
27th inst., two lectures—“The Spiritual Outlook” and “Mesmeric
Healing.”
Shortly we shall bring out an important new book on the pheno¬
menal aspects of Spiritualism, drawn up for the special purpose of
furnishing evidence to disbelievers of the reality of the facts. It will
contain articles by Mr. William Crookes, Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, and others whose testimony is of considerable weight
with the public.
Dr. Slade has recently been forced by the police to withdraw from
Vienna because he had no passport, and followed no recognised occu¬
pation. Can he not get a passport and go back again, and cannot
American Spiritualists bring pressure to bear upon the United States
minister to Austria, if an American subject has not been treated in
that country as he should be. Dr. Slade should furnish American
Spiritualists with facts upon which they can take action.
As all electricians and scientific men who know anything about
Spiritualism have testified, electricity and magnetism are not the
forces by means of which the phenomena of spirit circles are produced.
The very few of our correspondents who yet misuse the word “ mag¬
netism ” in their communications, are requested to omit it for the
future. “ Mesmerism ” does very well in place thereof. Although
Mesmer did not discover the power, everybody knows what is meant
by £ Mesmerism,” and it is quite certain that magnetism will not pro¬
duce the wonderful effects it is credited with by incautious speakers
who know not what magnetism is.
Reception at Dr. Speer’s.—Last Wednesday night Mrs. Speer and
Dr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, gave a reception to Spiritualistic and
other friends, at Douglas House, St. John’s-wood. Among those
present were Dr. George Wyld; Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood; the Rev.
W. Stainton-Moses, M.A. ; Mr. and Mrs. William Tebb; Mrs. Bur-
rowes; Miss Kate Burrowes ; Mr. Algernon Joy; Miss Kislingbury ;
Mrs. Hallock; Mrs. Going ; Dr. Carter Blake ; Miss Mackay; Mr. and
Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald; and others. Much tasteful singing and
music were given during the evening; also, some recitations of a refined
character by Miss Ella Dietz.
Physical Phenomena,—Mr. John Beattie, late of Bristol, writes to
The Spiritual Magazine :—“About twelve years ago I and two other
gentlemen called upon a medium (a lady) in London. That person
knew no more of us than if we had dropped from the moon. We
were shown into a room where we waited by ourselves for a quarter
of an hour, giving us ample opportunity of looking at everything in it.
At length the medium came and told us to be seated ; we at random
sat round a large table, time of day 4.30, in July, two large windows
in the room uncurtained. Almost directly loud raps were heard in
the ceiling; they ran down the wall, along the floor to the table;
I asked who was present, and it was rapped out I Mother.’
Here my doubt mastered me; I could not accept it, and demanded
proof. At once was given her name—maiden name ; that was followed
by fifty questions at least from me about my family, the answers
to many of which I did not know myself, but which I found verified
afterwards. I then said, | Will you tell me the last words you said to
me ? ’ The sentence was given at once. One of the gentlemen had a
statement made about his family, which he affirmed was not true, but
on writing to his mother he received the reply that it was true, every
word. I have said nothing about the power exerted over things in the
room, which was great. The answers came by means outside of the
medium, and many of the questions were mental; they clearly were not
through reading, and there was no hesitation or leading used; on the
contrary, the evidence was demonstrative.”
28
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 18, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE THEOSOPHISTS.
BY CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY.
Both as a Spiritualist, and as a member of the Theo-
sophical Society, I take immediate and grave exception to
much that appears in your last two numbers under the
honoured signature of “M. A., Oxon.” As a Spiritualist,
I demur altogether to his characterisation of the movement.
As a very ignorant pupil of my society, I nevertheless perceive
and complain that this honest and powerful writer has done
a public injustice to its teachings.
Unfortunately, I cannot say that I hear f* for the first
time” that Spiritualism is chiefly or exclusively valued by
its votaries for the privilege which it is supposed to discover
of communion with departed friends. But I have always
contradicted this statement as an imputation on our intel¬
ligence, and I little expected to hear it put forth on such
authority. Speaking of this faith, M.A., Oxon, says, “It is
this which I designate (a cardinal dogma of our faith.’ I
will so far vary my language as to say that it is the central
fact round which the whole fabric of Spiritualism is built up.
Demolish that faith, and you have cut out from the body
the heart that gave it life. Take away that belief—that
pious hope, if you prefer to call it so—and you have robbed
Spiritualism of that which, in the vast majority of instances,
is its sole attraction. There remains—what? A scientific
something with which the savant may amuse himself; the
action of a force, the possibility of a transfusion of thought,
a curious questioning as to elementals and elementaries, and
the possible action of infra-human (or, as the theologian
calls them, diabolic) agencies; a body from which the soul
has been wrenched; and for which most men will care
nothing.” And so this egotism of the affections is the core
and heart of Spiritualism ! Not the proof that the body is
not the life, not the downfall of materialism, not the founda¬
tion thus laid for a purer philosophy, a truer science, and
better lives; but a demand that our dead should be given
back to us, not that we should go to them, but that they
should come to us. If I had to summarise a sentiment
which I, in common, I believe, with many who have the
interests and progress of Spiritualism at heart, would repu¬
diate, as an essential account of the movement, with all the
emphasis I can convey, and even with all the distaste which
consideration and respect for others would allow me to
express, I could not do so in language more sufficiently de¬
scriptive than that which I have cited. It is probably true
that many Spiritualists (not, I hope, the “ vast majority ”)
care nothing for the scientific aspects of the phenomena, but
only for the suppossd privilege of intercourse with their
own departed friends, a privilege which they suppose
themselves to enjoy in utter, and often angry, rejection of
every consideration that could disturb their faith, and this
to the neglect of their own psychological education,
to the perpetuation of illusion within the movement, and to
its discredit without. Much unpopularity will inevitably
be incurred in insisting upon facts which tend to impair this
cherished belief whenever it is not—as often the Theo-
sophists, at least, admit it is—well founded; and it is not a
little annoying to find one of our ablest and most honoured
leaders using language which identifies Spiritualism with its
most emotional and least progressive elements; for now, it
seems, that all psychological investigations and speculations
that seek to penetrate the mysteries of man’s nature, and to
exhibit other spiritual agencies, as concerned in the phe¬
nomena, are incidental to Spiritualism. Why ? if not,
that Spiritualism, instead of being a science, of man as a
spirit, and of the spiritual world, in which even now he lives,
and therefore subject, like other sciences, to have the
simplicity of its early conclusions corrected, is a religious
teaching which reason, observation, hypothesis, and even
the wisdom and experience of the past must not presume to
disturb. Modern Spiritualism is a thing of yesterday.
Starting up in a materialistic age, to which all the experi¬
ence, all the learning, all the philosophy, all the revelations
respecting these very phenomena in the past were so much
forgotten superstition, it was embraced with enthusiasm by
multitudes who had no other conception of a spiritual universe
than that it must contain their dead, for whom they pas¬
sionately yearned. Then came the Theosophists, who in the
j j schools of the East, where the continuity of spirit manifesta-
i(j tions has never been broken nor the science of them
| | neglected, had made it their business to study the history of
I ! the subject—a history that does not date from the Rochester
| | rappings. They speak with some authority therefore, and
I j authority is abhorrent to the Western mind. They tell us
j i what they think they know about these phenomena, and
| | about the invisible agencies that beset us. How they have
| i been received in America we pretty well know ; what is to
| | be their greeting here? “ Occultism,” according to Olcott,
| j “is the deadly foe of Spiritualism, as interpreted by popular
I | teachers.” “I should have thought that the mission of
j I Occultism was to strike at the root of the central theory of
| j Spiritualism, and to discourage its practice altogether.”
| I How such language can be reconciled with that of the same
I | writer only the week before I am at a loss to understand. I
I j will quote it, leaving it to be explained in consistency with
! | the above, if possible, by one of the most logical minds
| j with which I am acquainted: “The Theosophist platform,
m so far as concerns the subject now under notice” [the agency
i j in phenomena] “is far more worthy of consideration,
j There is much in it that must commend itself to one whose
I prepossessions are dormant, and whose perceptions are wide
I awake. So far as it goes, it seems to me to embody a true
| rationale of the fact; so far as I can comprehend it, I be-
| lieve it to be worthy of all attention. I wish it had been in
j the mind of my friend to state more clearly his belief in, or
I acceptance of, what I may be allowed to call the pure
j i Spiritualist, as contradistinguished from the Occultist
j j theory I could wish that he had given a more
I | prominent place in his review to the ; action of pure dis-
| j embodied spirits,’ of which he makes so little. It is there
I j that I find myself constrained to avow myself a Spiritualist
| | pur sang.‘>'> I think it will be agreed that from a Spiritualist
I j pur sang, this is a very mild declaration of deadly hostility,
j In his second paper, M.A., Oxon., criticises other points
| in Col. Olcott’s letter. I submit that the latter is strictly
j consistent and precise in proclaiming the immortality of the
j human spirit along with the doctrine of the potential im-
| mortality of man. Surely, he has enforced with sufficient
j distinctness the doctrine that the human spirit is not the
| lower consciousness with which we identify ourselves here,
| but which it is the essential teaching of Theosophy is not
i| immortal. This survives, it is true, indefinitely even after
| the final separation of the spirit, but in process of dissolu-
| tion with the astral body. And no one, I think, would
I | probably recognise and lament more than Ool. Olcott, that
]|| neglect of ancient philosophy which makes it possible for a
| (| western scholar to say that he hears now, for the first time, the
jjj doctrine that this divine and alone immortal spirit has to be
j j united in consciousness with the individual, in order that the
| | latter may participate in its immortality. But M.A., Oxon.,
| | could hardly have said this, had he read Mr. Maitland’s
| |i book on The Soul and How it found Me, or even my review
| | of that book in these pages. But are Col. Olcott and M. A.,
| | Oxon., such poles asunder on this doctrine of potential im-
| | mortality, and is the latter so sure that he himself represents
j j the “usually received” doctrine of human immortality?
| I Let us hear him. “ I hanker after the old and nobler faith
I | that man has in him the promise and potency of immortality;
| I that he may delay his realisation of his inheritance, that he
If may, in rare and obstinate cases of rejection of all light, sink
j into darkness andfinal death, but that for the children of men
j at some far distant day the darkness shall turn to light, the
| potency become fruition.” (The italics are mine.)
| Again, “ But if by a course of preferred vice, by ingrained
| | preference for the 4 earthly, sensual, devilish,’ he chooses
| | evil and refuses good, then, by the action of the same in-
| | vincible law he sinks lower and lower, till beyond hope. But
jl these cases are few and far between.” If words have any mean-
I I ing, M.A., Oxon, no more than Col. Olcott, attributes to man
I an inherent and inalienable immortality. If it is in man’s
I nature, good, or bad, to be immortal, then no 44 ingrained
I preference ” can make him lose it; and this is the 44 usually
| received ” doctrine. But if not, must not immortality, that is to
I say, life no longer precarious and probational, but assured, be
! the consequence of the addition or complete union with some
| being that possesses this prerogative ? And until this union
is effected, is it not more proper to say that immortality has
Jan. 18, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
29
to be gained than that it may be lost ? For this seems the
only difference between Col. Olcott and his critic. As to
vohen the hope of immortality may be lost, that is not a dif¬
ference in principle. If not already gained, the prize must
be striven for, and when the strife is abandoned the hope is
gone, the spirit lost, whether here or hereafter.
Descending u from faith to works,” it is complained that
the Theosophists offer no u proof” of their u hypotheses,”
their elementaries and elementals. They tell us the teaching
of the great masters of occult learning and experience, from
whom they derived it; of testimony at least as abundant and
trustworthy as that of modern mediums ; and they point us
to facts within our own observation more consistent with the
agency of such beings as these are described, than with any
other theory. But we, without studying, demand from them
proofs of the results of their study, and in a love of logical
superiority, ask evidence without seeking for it where they
tell us it is to be found. Surely they must smile. And
perhaps they may reply, “ Come to our school and learn.'"
Temple, January 13th, 1878.
THE DOCTRINE OF ANNIHILATION.—PERSONAL
EXPERIENCES IN MEDIUMSHIP.
BY THE BARONESS ADELMA YON VAY (COUNTESS WURMBRAND).
Haying read Mrs. Blavatsky’s deeply interesting work,
Isis Unveiled, I desire to make a few remarks upon it. In
many things Mrs. Blavatsky has my earnest admiration
and warm sympathy ; but I cannot say I agree with her in
all she has written, and the doctrine of the annihilation of
all bad men’s souls is especially repugnant to me. My
spirit-guides have never told me anything which corroborates
the truth of this, as I consider, most dangerous doctrine.
If annihilated, where would be the punishment of sin?
Annihilation is no punishment to a murderer or one laden
with a bad conscience; it is rather a solace and benefit.
What a charm it must be to lose all consciousness when
conscience is bad! No. This doctrine would rather en¬
courage men who had once fallen, to further crime, than
help them to raise themselves to a better state: and I
repeat I think it a most dangerous doctrine. I have had
communication with several spirits who in their earth-life
were murderers. They came to me begging for prayers,
and after a time praying with me. They told me how hor¬
rible were the pangs of a bad conscience ; how their bad
deeds were, in. a spiritual sense, u written down” before
them, and never could be blotted out but by repentance
and penance. They said to me—“ Oh! if we only could be
killed—annihilated! If our individuality could but die!—
but it cannot" The Soul once born of man must and will
live eternally, be he a Messiah or a Pariah. This doctrine
of annihilation would be worse than that of eternal hell, for
so long as a soul still lives there is some hope of rescue;
but if it be annihilated it is lost for ever: there is no hope—
no rescue. Again, there is no justice in this doctrine, for it
takes away from us all responsibility for sin. Thus, to the
Materialist it is a welcome dogma, for he would be glad to
lose the responsibility of his sins. To such I would say—
No one—not even the basest man—can be annihilated.
Every man is responsible for all his deeds; and after death
must give a good reckoning for them. He will see his life
before him : he will have to work and to suffer; and con¬
science will be the spur to urge him onward. That very
many sinful spirits are at work in nature, doing penance
as elementaries, has often been told to us. They are spirits
trying to amend, and placed as workers in the elements for
their purification or as a punishment. Between these spirits
and the elementals of Mrs. Blavatsky there is a great dis¬
tinction; for while our elementaries are spirits doing
penance for past sin, and preparing themselves for a better
state of existence, her elementals are souls which have
already lost their spirits, and will themselves, in process of
time, become annihilated. I do not believe that soul and
spirit, once united, can ever be separated. All men are
God’s children, and each of us, being responsible for all his
actions, will live after death in a higher or lower sphere
according to his deserts. Not one soul will be lost, but
each and every one must, whether he will or no, live,
work, and suffer, purifying and ennobling himself—a living
| | witness to the power of the Almighty God, who, having
| j once erected a human soul, will never let it sink into void
I | and oblivion.
I | It is curious that in many things there is a great accord-
| | ance between the communications I have received and the
If views taken by Mrs. Blavatsky. For instance, the whole
! ! theory of u the triune”—spirit, soul, matter—called man.
||i My guides wrote the book Geist, Kraft, Staff (Spirit, Force,
| j Matter) through me at the commencement of my medium-
j j ship, and before I had read any of the ancient philosophers,
| | or any scientific book. They gave me a full system of
| numbers, beginning with the A, the three first numbers,
j which are three in one—viz., God, Spirit, Force. Urlicht is
the same as the akasa, or astral light. I am sure any
Theosophist or earnest Spiritualist who would study this
| book would find many things corresponding to the doctrines
j of Pythagoras and the Buddhists.
I j With regard to half-death, my guides have written to the
II same effect as Mrs. Blavatsky. (1st vol., page 452.) We
j | have received many instructions as to how we should treat
11 the dead. One spirit wrote that hospitals should be erected
| for receiving them, where, instead of being stretched out in
| a cold room, they should be kept warm, rubbed with oil,
| and treated, not as dead, but as cataleptic, until corruption
I sets in : that a third of our deceased were buried much too
j quickly, before the spirit with its astral body had left its
shell; that there often remains &perisprit life in the body
which explains the nature of vampires.
Then, as to speaking statues. I have lost an uncle whom
I loved dearly. My brother-in-law, Baron Nicklos Vay,
made me a bust of this uncle, after a plaster-cast taken by
my husband. Now this bust stands in my room. I often
speak to it as if I were speaking to my dear uncle, and I
very often feel it to be like a living being. My uncle wrote
through me that as the cast was taken from his body there
were inherent perisprit molecules in the bust, and he could
make it move and speak if I strongly wished it.
The warnings that Mrs. Blavatsky gives to all physical
mediums are wise. Such phenomena, and the laws which
govern them, still remain unexplained, and Spiritualists are
| too often contented with superficial explanations. For my-
j self, I have a personal dislike to all physical manifestations,
| I not from fear, but because they make me feel ill. I look
I | upon a good spirit as something too high and godly to play
j|| guitars and to fetter and unfetter mediums. Still, God
j sends us these signs. Often they come unasked; so, surely
j they are designed for some good purpose.
| It is singular that my guides never allowed me to evoke
i spirits. They always said: “ Leave those who will not
I come, in peace. Those who have something to say will
| | come unasked.” And so it was. I never evoked a spirit;
| I but often received spontaneous messages of the most con-
j j vincing nature from departed spirits. Thus, being consulted
l | by a Russian gentleman, I wrote automatically in characters
jll I had wever seen before. I sent the writing to the gentleman,
j | and he wrote me that it was Old Russian, which is now
I | seldom used.
Though I feel myself to be surrounded by good, loving
| | spirits, I do not appear to have much physical force in me,
| | for I never could get one rap or make a table turn. Several
| | mesmerists have tried to put me to sleep, but have never
succeeded in doing so. Still, by holding a mountain crystal
| I in my hand, I go into a sort of half trance, when I see the
j ! spirit of my angel sister, Elizabeth, who says that she lives
| | with me and speaks through me as my double. In my visions I
| | have often seen elementaries, but they were almost always
| | beautiful and kind. Sometimes, but very seldom, I have
I | seen little red gnomes with long beards.
I i During the twelve years that I have been curing diseases,
Hi I have found obsession to be the affliction most easy to
j I abolish. Often amulets, with prayers, are sent to the
| | patients, and these, with daily prayer, raise, as it were, a
|j | wall between the patient and the obsessing spirit, and bring
j| I about the final cure.
j i Mrs. Blavatsky’s book should be read and studied. It
| I contains the history of magic up to the present time. Her
fp studies must have been immense. I know of no woman
||| who has written such a deep, scientific book, and with so
i!1 much sense and wit. She unites the wisdom of a man with
30
Jan. 18, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
the tact of a woman. But, in reading her book, and also
the works of Jacolliot (which I much admire), I am always
sorry they will rob us of our Messiah, Jesus Christ, when,
in the meantime, they believe in the Buddha and Christos
of India. If a Messiah lived in those remote times, why
could not a new sending of God’s Son have taken place
through Jesus Christ ? Why take away our Christos ? I
do not see the use of so doing. Jesus came. He is an
historical personage; the founder of Christianity. If
Buddha and Christna were godly spirits, sons of God, why
not Jesus ? .Has He not, by His life and by His teachings of
purity and love, proved Himself to be as good and perfect a
spirit as any ? As the Buddhists adhere to Buddha, let us
then, as Christians, adhere to our Christ.
Gonobitz, Hungary, Jan. 1st, 1878.
RECENT MANIFESTATIONS THROUGH MRS. KATE FOX
JENCKEN’S MEDIUMSHIP.
BY HENRY X>. JENCKEN, M.R.I., BARRISTER-AT-LAW.
It is now some time since I have communicated to you
what is happening at our quiet little home at Kensington.
We are so constantly brought into contact with the myste¬
rious intelligences which appear to surround us, that
possibly we may have come to the conclusion that our
narrative might prove a repetition of what had been said
before. Be this as it may, I plead guilty to a long silence,
and should not now break in upon it, but what took place
on Hew Year’s eve was, I think, of exceptional interest.
Mrs. Jencken and myself were alone in our drawing-room,
awaiting the advent of the Hew Year. Ho sooner had the
many-tongued bells sounded from distant churches, announc¬
ing the end of the old, and advent of the new year, than the
rappings came in perfect showers, sounding out in deep-toned,
sonorous accents, the farewell message to the parting friend,
the greeting to the new-born year. I counted as many as
eight or nine different distinctive “echoes”—as Mrs. Jencken
terms them—from another world, each giving twelve raps.
This passed, when by raps [we were ordered to go into the
adjoining room.
I lit a taper, and, followed by my wife, obeyed the behest,
when, lo and behold :!: placed in the centre of the table we
found an urn entwined with artificial flowers. On examining
this strange gift, it proved to be an urn, such as is used on
marriage occasions, and in a perfect state of preservation.
Hext to the urn a scroll of paper had been laid on the table ;
it contained direct spirit-writing, in red crayon. This writing,
after rendering a long message of a strictly private character,
finally explained the nature of the gift. The urn and flowers
were those used at our wedding, now years ago. They had
been put by, locked up in a drawer, faded, crushed, and
forgotten, the urn and ornaments broken; but had on this
occasion, so it appears, been put together and returned to us
a new gift. We immediately proceeded to the bed-room
and examined the drawer, but its contents were gone, the
faded, partly-stained 'paper in which urn and flowers had
been enclosed, only remaining. I must add, that no one but
ourselves, save our servants, who were in their room, fast
asleep, were in the house, our infant children being in their
cribs asleep in the nursery.
On returning to the drawing-room the bells in the base¬
ment hall began to ring. I immediately went below,
examined the bells, and noticed that two had been moved,
not, however, those communicating with the street, but the
drawing-room and nursery bells. To make certain, I asked
(mentally) that the ringing might be repeated. This was at
once done. But to test whether an intelligence guided the
ringing, I asked first for alternate ringing, then for three
times, then five, andeven seven times; to each of these requests
the ringing responded consistently. All this was as ghost¬
like as the most ardent Spiritualist could have desired; the
shuddering feeling of half awe, half curiosity, being intensified
by the sound of a footstep right up to the landing on which
my wife and myself were standing. This closed our Hew
Year’s eve.
As I have broken silence, I will give you another incident
of interest, which occurred some months ago. A friend of
our family, a well-known West-end physician, had coaxed
Mrs. Jencken to obtain my reluctant consent to have two or
three sittings. He desired, above all things, to have answers
II to questions contained in writing carefully sealed up in a
I letter. We, that is Mrs. Jencken, myself, and Dr. , ac-
| Cordingly met; the letter was placed on the table; after a
| pause, by raps Dr. was requested to hold it under the
| table ; no sooner done than he felt a hand take it from him.
| On its being returned by the same unseen power, the huge
j envelope of the letter was found to be literally covered with
| writing, categorically answering the written questions en-
| closed within. At my request Dr. very obligingly,
| after first carefully examining the seal and fastenings of the
| packet, opened the letter, and allowed me to compare the
| questions and answers. The replies were most complete.
I As the document in question was private, I cannot give its
I contents, and, in fact, only record what has happened, be-
| cause I am well aware that many of Mrs. Jencken’s friends
| will read [with interest, that through her mediumship a
j direct proof had been given of the power of reading and
I correctly answering that which she had no means of know-
| ing, and under the strictest test conditions.
| Kensington, London, 7th January, 1878.
THE “BELL TEST.”
MANIFESTATIONS BY SPIRIT POWER INSIDE A NAILED BOX.'
For some time past the Research Committee of the British
Hational Association of Spiritualists, composed of profes-
I; sional and other gentlemen, under the presidency of Mr.
Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., has been sitting patiently
at many seances for the development of the power to produce
manifestations inside a nailed box placed near a medium.
The box is nailed to the inside of a cabinet, and has no
opening whatever inside the cabinet. It has an opening
outside, in full view of the observers, but a board is screwed
over that opening.
Inside the box is an ordinary electro-magnet with its
armature, and the depression of the armature completes an
electrical circuit, and causes an electrical bell to ring in the
usual way. The object to be achieved was, that the spirits
should pass power enough through the wood to depress the
armature. The connecting wires to the electrical apparatus
are all outside the cabinet, and in full view. Inside the
cabinet with the medium, there is nothing but the smooth
wooden outside of the box.
Under these conditions, the bell has been made to ring at
will, at the two last seances held in the presence of the
Research Committee. More force than necessary to depress
the armature was used inside the box, for a spring was
strained, and an electro-magnet disarranged.
Thus this valuable manifestation takes its place among the
best attested of the phenomena of Spiritualism, and is a rich
reward to those who waited so patiently to obtain it. Mr.
Eglinton was the medium..
Philosophically considered, there is nothing new in the
manifestation, for it was known before that, as in slate¬
writing manifestations, spirits could move solid objects
inside closed spaces. But although there was no research ”
in the committee sitting as a developing circle, and although
no new knowledge has been gained by the successful result,
it paves the way to research. If a little curtain is suspended
over the opening of the box outside the cabinet, can the
spirits materialise a hand in the box, and show it ? If so, it
will be the first instance of the observed materialisation of a
hand, with solid, wood everywhere between the hand and
the medium. What are the conditions of temperature inside
the box during the production of the manifestations ?
The Research Committee has mounted a cabinet on a
weighing machine, to ascertain what change in the weight
of a medium takes place while various manifestations are
going on. This should bring new knowledge.
The “ Fox sisters,” through whom the manifestations of modern
Spiritualism first began in America, are now in London, and their
power is as strong as ever. Last Sunday^at South Kensington, we
heard raps loud enough to be audible in the passage outside the closed
door of the room, through the mediumship of Mrs. H. D. Jencken
(Kate Fox).
Mr. Hugh Keymer, editor of the Hevista JSspiritista, published in
Chili, is about to make a thorough study of the rise and progress of
Spiritualism in England, for the information of his South American
readers, and to this end has sent for a complete set of The Spiritualist,
beginning in 1809,
JAn. 18, 1878. TllE SPlEltUALIST. 31
Corresponxience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents,who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned;
copies should he kept hy the writers.]
M. GUST ATE DE VEh’S ACCOUNT OP A SEANCE.
Sir,—I will try to give you an outline of a seance with Dr. Monck,
held on the evening of the 28th Dec. First of all, it is important to
observe, that I found myself at the beginning alone with Mr. Colley
and his friend, whose name I do not know, and that we three joined in
searching every corner of the two rooms (front drawing-room, and,
towards the back, Dr. Monck’s bed-room). We did not leave a chair,
table, or cupboard unsearched; we glued pieces of paper on the doors
and the windows, making pencil-marks over the papers, so that it
would have been impossible to shift them without our discovering the
trick. Dr. Monck and Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun entered, nearly ten
minutes after we had thus completely guarded ourselves against all
deceit. I had my suspicions, which were rather fortified by the circum¬
stance that Dr. Monck never succeeded in getting these materialisations
any where else than in his own apartments.* Still, I had resolved to
give him the fairest possible trial.
The first part of the evening passed without anything whatever
occurring, and I began to feel discouraged; but the second part fully
repaid us for the disappointment of the beginning.
The gaslight was sufficiently good to enable us to see all the faces,
and even their expressions. My attention became doubly sharp when
Dr. Monck placed himself before the fatal curtain that separated the
two rooms. Why has he put up that abominable curtain ? But my
expectation was gratified when I saw (three gas flames were burning at
half light) a rather foggy cloud forming itself before Dr. Monck’s feet.
That cloud slowly took the form of a young girl, and grew up as high as
Dr. Monck’s chest; then, shrinking from the light of the fire, which
flared up, she stood for a few seconds on the left side of the medium,
then came nearer to the round table where I sat with the four other
persons.
I was not more than three or four feet distant from the figure, which
allowed us to touch her hands and arms. I saw the eyes move. All at
once the fire flared up once more, when the figure shrank back, and
diminished in size till she seemed crouching on the floor, leaning on
one hand, and following with her eyes the movements of Dr. Monck,
with a look of curiosity. The latter had laid hold of the tongs, and
in endeavouring to lower the fire contrived to make it flare up, from
time to time, higher than before. From that moment my memory is
not quite clear about the form, only I recollect distinctly seeing it rise a
little from the ground, lean against the medium’s knees, and by degrees
become absorbed in him. I am certain that she did not move away
from him. Then there was an interval of talking and exclamation.
Then Samuel (as they told me) was controlling Dr. Monck, and in that
disagreeable voice of his he told us he would show us something more,
and—Dr. Monck stood again before that curtain! Before his feet there
was again a foggy cloud; it grew higher, expanded in breadth, and
there stood a figure half a head higher than the medium, who then
spoke in his normal voice, and was, apparently, perfectly conscious.
I am unable to narrate in their order all the incidents that now hap¬
pened ; but I can say, if necessary upon oath, that they were over¬
whelming. As to the figure, at first I took it for a living man. Why ?
Well, because of the fatal curtain! I could not help it. But I saw
him take up with one hand, between thumb and first finger, the heavy
musical box (which I, rather a strong man, could not easily lift with
both hands), and saw him hold it in that manner by one end, then
balance the box on his right arm, and with his left wind it up. Then
he showed us his naked feet, not broader than half the sheet of paper I
am now writing on. They were about two inches broad, and five or six
inches long. I felt that they were icy cold, but higher up, towards the
rather rough calf, they grew by degrees warmer. Then he took my
arm, walked round the room with me, warmed his hands at the fire¬
place with me, took my hat, looked at it with a kind of wonder, and, at
a sign from me, put it on my head. When I saluted him by taking it
off, he made me a salaam as I had seen it done hundreds of times in the
Orient. A plate of biscuits stood on a side-table; he presented it to us,
himself took a biscuit, ate it, and Dr. Monck spat it out. I thought he
might as well have left that experiment alone, as any two could perform
that trick. He laid down on the sofa, sat up, and invited me by gesture
to sit down next to him. In the meantime Dr. Monck had gone down¬
stairs, to accompany the gentleman whom I did not know to the front¬
door, the form remaining, and still walking and sitting with us. When
Dr. Monck returned,the form took a piece of coal out of the fireplac e,
and at the same instant the medium cried out—“ Oh! what have I in my
hand ? A piece of coal I” and the hands of the form were empty.
As well as I can judge, after all the precautionary measures I had
taken with Mr. Colley, I firmly believe that all was right; and the
finishing stroke of the seance did really send for a time all suspicions to
the winds. I tell you that at the end the form leant (within two or
three feet from us, the gas lighted as before) against Dr. Monck, and,
becoming rather misty, worked himself into the medium by degrees,
and was gone.
Must I add, that Mr. Colley and I again examined our precautionary
measures, and found all the pieces of paper and lines of pencil intact.
So ended this memorable evening, and here is my signature as a proof
that I am most firmly convinced to have really witnessed all I have told
you. Gustave be Veh.
Grosvenor Hotel, Victoria Station, London.
[Mr. De Veh’s foot-note to one part of bis letter is of exceptional interest as
* This has been contradicted since I wrote this by Mrs. Cranstoun, who assures me that
they have obtained the sight of Mahedi in their house.
ito these seances, which have been held in such stringent privacy on Dr. Monck’s
premises. Does that foot-note mean that an ordinary materialisation was
seen on Mr. Oranstoun’s premises? Or has Mr. Cranstoun seen enough to
certify that on his premises two living men, one of them temporarily ma¬
terialised, were walking about as freely as described in the above letter, and
in a strong light ?—Ed.]
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,-—As one of those present at the seance with Mr. Eglinton last
evening, allow me to supplement the official account which Dr. Carter-
Blake will doubtless give in your columns. I do not know whether the
sitting was an average one as to the success and strength of the mani¬
festations, as it is the second physical seance I have attended, and the
first with Mr. Eglinton; but, undoubtedly, the manifestation of
exterior forces being at work was to my mind satisfactorily shown. I
use the words “ exterior forces ” in the sense of being external to the
natural and bodily powers of the medium and circle ; the question as
to whether the phenomena witnessed had their origin in the will of any
particular disembodied spirit, or in the will power of the medium or
circle, must of course be left to the judgment of those whose knowledge
of the occult qualifies them to give an opinion. Mr. Eglinton was
firmly secured by his coat sleeves being sewn at the wrists behind his
back, some of the stitches being passed through the seam of the coat at
the small of the back (a point I particularly noticed). The coat or
jacket was a tightly fitting one, with three or four buttons (which were
buttoned), and at the top fastening in front the coat was also sewed
together, thus apparently precluding the possibility of the medium slip¬
ping his arms from the sleeves. Mr. Eglinton was then tied by the
arms to the back of a chair, and by his legs to the legs of the chair,
which was placed rather in front than inside the cabinet. The curtains
were draped so as to show his knees, on which were placed the fairy
bells with a bell trumpet and ring. Very soon after the gas had been
lowered, yet not so low, but that most, if not all, could see distinctly ;
the voice of “ Joey ” was heard speaking; raps were heard, hands
moved the small articles on the fairy bells, which were resting in full
view on the medium’s knees; a book which was placed there opened
and shut, was taken inside the cabinet, as were also the fairy bells,
which, while inside, were loudly twanged. One of the medium’s cuffs
was thrown outside, and afterwards upon being placed upon the
medium’s knees was taken inside by a hand and replaced. One or two
gentlemen putting their hands through the curtains, but above the
medium’s head, distinctly felt the touches of some fingers passing over
their own. Joey also allowed all the sitters, immediately after a mani¬
festation had taken place, to enter the cabinet, and observe the fasten¬
ings of the medium, which was done, when he was found precisely in
the same state as when secured ; nor at the close of the stance was any
thread or fastening broken, nor could I see any symptoms of a strain at
any part of the places where the medium was sewed or tied. When the
seance was concluded a Mr. Kane (who must pardon me if I do not
spell his name right) requested to be secured in the same way as Mr.
Eglinton, which was done (by the same lady who had done the previous
sewing), but not nearly in so secure a manner as when Mr. Eglinton
was made fast. Firstly, Mr. Kane wore a frock coat, of which the
sleeves appeared looser than the medium’s, and the stitches, instead of
being put through his coat at the small of the back, were sewn an inch
or two down his coat tails; his coat was also not sewn in front. The
tyings to the chair were done very loosely and carelessly. When
the curtains were draped over him he managed with great visible
twisting and straining to move the fairy bells, which had been placed
on his knees, and to show a hand red with the effort, close to his side.
When Mr. Kane was examined it was found that he had broken the
fastenings behind, that the tapes were all strained, and his coat-sleeve
partly up his arm, himself being very red, and panting with the effort.
Mr. Kane afterwards admitted that he could not have done anything
had he been secured like Mr. Eglinton. I send you this account as an
unprejudiced observer, and because I think mediums who submit to such
handling as Mr. Eglinton does for the benefit of inquirers, deserve the
thanks and protection of all those who are interested in the investiga¬
tion of the spiritual phenomena attending humanity.
Charles Long, M.B.N.A.S.
Thursday, January 10th, 1878.
BREAM OR NO DREAM.
Sir,—The sage-femme who attended my wife in her first confinement
was an excellent type of a Lancashire woman. Neat in dress, civil in
manners, kind in face, and thoroughly good at heart, she left an im¬
pression on our minds that is always pleasant to revive. The whole
neighbourhood benefited by her good offices. She was always in
request, and many were her good deeds, acts of unsolicited kindness,
benevolence that anticipated all demands, services that asked for no
recompense. It was not surprising that Betty Ogden was beloved by
all who knew her. A quiet, unostentatious piety animated her in the
discharge of duties which asked for no praise and sought no reward.
Hi' The speech of such a woman was like her character—single, direct,
I unhesitating. No disorder of the simple truth produced by morbid
introspection or reasoning after the event ever troubled the accuracy of
| her statements. Your readers may, therefore, confidently rely on the
! authenticity of the following story told by her to my wife. She
herself seemed to attach no extraordinary importance to it as anything
very remarkable. It was one of her experiences ; nothing more. As
a Christian she felt she had good reasons for believing in a future
existence, and was not bewildered by any cross lights of scepticism on
the main point, and assuredly never thought of questioning the cer-
I tainty of her recollections; neither did any one who knew her.
I She had been left a widow with several children. In course of time
[ these married, and made their way in the world. One alone remained,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 18, 1878.
32
the youngest boy, who, when he was about fourteen years old, fell sick, j/j
and finally died of consumption. During his illness, which was long j(|
and tedious, she of course did everything that a woman in her circum- n!
stances could do, and displayed to the last the untiring patience and j|j
love of the true mother. The demand on that love and patience grew |j
greater towards the close of the boy’s life, when the weariness of long !>|
confinement to his bed made the vigils of his sleeplessness a heavy H
burden to her. What sleep she obtained was snatched at intervals, or K!
else taken in the daytime on the bed by the invalid’s side. One after- ];!
noon, a few weeks before the child’s death, she lay down beside him j(|
with a strict injunction to be called if he wanted anything. The boy, (j
who was wide awake when she fell asleep, let her slumber on for an j;
hour or more, when he roused her. It was simply to render some i !
common service, such as shifting his pillow or giving him to drink. I) j
His voice and touch startled her from a vivid and somewhat disagree- ! (j
able dream. She fancied that, still reclining on the couch, not yet j j i
having fallen asleep, she saw her husband come to the side of the bed j j
on which her boy was lying, and stand for some time motionless, ||
regarding him with mild but earnest eyes, the look of which was more | (j
pathetic and affectionate than sad. She, fancying with the usual strange |) j
confusion of the dream mind, that her husband had committed some I) j
crime, and that the officers of justice were already on his traces—and Kj
yet she wondered how that could be, since he was already dead !—at j
once addressed him, urgently bidding him run upstairs into the attics, ] j
and find some place of concealment. She was astonished at receiving ijj
no reply, and while she was pondering his silence, heard the call which ! i
awoke her. Although her dream had made a great impression on her j) j
mind and, so to speak, haunted her, she nevertheless refrained from j (j
speaking of it to the child. Nor would she probably ever have done )|
so—for she took the vision as the sign of his impending death—had he in
not suddenly remarked : ! j
“ Mother, I have seen my father.” «
“ Nonsense, lad,” she replied, “thou’st been dreaming.” u
“Nay,” he answered, “ all the time you were sleeping I never once | |
closed my eyes. He came to the bedside and looked at me, but never | |j
said a word. I saw him as plain as I see yon chest o’ drawers.” M
Not long after the boy died. To the last he would never acknow- i i i
ledge that the vision he had seen was the mockery of a dream. He j j
was a truthful boy, and moreover knew that his case was hopeless. Of i (I
course, he may have been surprised by sleep, and the apparition have j) i
been solely one of the imaginations of the couch. But this he strongly i ) j
denied, and his mother never doubted his word. Take it how we will, j (j
the circumstance is worthy of record. Supposing the boy really j (i
dreamt the same dream at the same time with his mother, we have j j j
here the statement of a problem which the spectator sought to solve j( j
by the principle of the “ brain-wave.” But if the boy were awake— nj
and I see no reason to believe otherwise—the brain-wave theory is !)|
only tenable on the admission that the wave had washed over the | (i
mortal bar, and, in some mysterious way, simultaneously affected both j jj
the waking and the sleeping mind. I am rather disposed to adopt
this solution. ! (!
We can scarcely think that there was any more substance in the j V,
figure seen by the boy than in that beheld by the mother. What each j j
saw, they saw with the eyes of memory,'in the vesture and look of old j j
times. But something must have excited that memory; something jji
must have made the imagination cast forth from itself that projection j (I
of its image in bodily shape. We know how mind affects mind here, j (j
Why should its influences die on the threshold of the grave? We |)|
Christians, who believe in ministering spirits, are very illogical, it j (j
seems to me, in resolutely entrenching ourselves behind the barriers of j \j
utter incredulity in regard to a case so well authenticated as the one j) I
before us. Did all intercommunication between the world of sense ||j
and spirit cease exactly eighteen centuries ago ? j (!
Some of your Oldham readers may be interested to learn that the |
good woman, whom my wife so loved and respected, lived, and ti
perhaps still lives, at Moorside, near that town. Clericus. j v
THE INFLUENCE OF THE LIVES OF PROFESSED RELIGIONISTS. j j |
Sir,—“ Lutchmee and Dilloo, a story of West Indian Life, by Iff
Edward Jenkins,” concludes with the following scene:— i j
Dilloo, a Hindu coolie, is dying. “ The Reverend Adolpus Telfer,” j j
a clergymen of the Church of England, “ touched by the evident near- j (|
ness of the departing soul to the dark postern of death . . . tried in |||
simple language to tell the dying man of ... a Saviour, Jesus Christ, j u
who "had opened the gates from death to life, from pain to bliss. j|
“ The coolie listened, impassive, silent. He held Lutchmee’s (his wife) !)
hand tightly in his own. The moments flew by. Lutchmee watched I (I
the ebbing, dribbling life. i j I
“ ‘ See, Dilloo,’ cried the missionary, stirred to earnestness,1 there is j )i
good and life ready for you even now. Believe in Jesus Christ—trust ||j
your soul to Him! |
No ! ’ cried the dying coolie, loudly, almost fiercely, and with un- j)i
conscious, but terribly pointed, satire, as he half raised his body. * No! j (j
no! Jesu Kriss Massa Drummond’s God—Massa Marston’s God—all j)l
Inglees’ God. No God for coolie! ’ „' l)|
: “ And turning his face away from the Christian, the coolie breathed | \ j
out his soul into the bosom of the Unknown God.” A. Joy. !)l
THEOLOGICAL OPINIONS.
Sir,—The very interesting and suggestive paper of Dr. George Wyld,
entitled “ Man as a Spirit; and Spiritual Phenomena as Produced by
the Spirits of the Living,” which appear in your issue of December 14th,
has been attentively read by the Theosophists of New York. It is
encouraging to us that the views of our society, as enunciated by
myself, in a crude and imperfect manner, in your number of the 7th
inst., should in any degree commend themselves to such thoughtful
critics as Dr. Wyld. The interpretation which he places upon my
averment that “ we Theosophists of the inner ring adhere to the
Oriental religious philosophies as .better guides to happiness than the
Christian theology” is perfectly correct. The teachings ascribed to
Jesus, and the theology of the so-called Christian Church, have, in
my judgment, no mutual resemblance. In fact, I am acquainted with no
religious system less Christ-like than Christianity. Certainly, no
heathen religion so thoroughly substitutes words for deeds, exacts so
little of self-earned merit, as the necessary condition for future progress
and beatitude. No Christian priest or layman holds, or can hold, Jesus
of Nazareth in higher respect than a sincere Theosophist. We regard
this lofty initiate of Egypto-Indian Esoterism with no less reverence
for His holy life and teachings than Sakya-Muni and Christna. But
around the real personage of Judea we recognise the same mythological
numbers as that which Indian theology has created about the true men
of Mathura and Kapila-Yastu. Madame Blavatsky has shown the
identity of doctrine taught by the three, and equally, the intimate
resemblance between the mythical biographies composed for them by
their respective theological propagandists. There can be no “ higher
religion and morality” than that which was probably taught by Jesus,
for He taught the sublime religion of ancient India. Were there but a
meagre percentage of nominal Christians showing by their daily life
and conversation that they relied upon the self-same methods as He to
“ gain eternal life,” and avoid losing their souls {psuche), assuredly no
Theosophist would reproach Christian theology, as he now safely may,
with fostering sin, and pushing humanity down to moral ruin. We
want no system that puts a premium upon self-indulgence and self¬
brutalisation, by promising a death-bed condonation for a career of vice
by men in cassocks or frocks, who too often are viler inwardly than the
penitent they shrive.
Theosophists profoundly respect the religious convictions of the
sincere of every creed, and unreservedly admit that each embraces
many within its communion whom angels will joyfully welcome. But,
as philosophical students, we separate the individual saint from his
ancestral theology; and viewing all religious systems, and their results,
with calm impartiality, we are forced to reiterate the idea expressed in
my letter, that esoteric Brahmanism, Buddhism, Parsism, and other
Eastern religions, philosophies are better guides to happiness, here and
hereafter, than that travesty upon the doctrines of Christ, called
Christian theology.
I hope these remarks may not be viewed as untimely. I really think
they are not. Your Canon Farrar, and our American clergy of various
denominations, are at this moment repudiating the dogma of a blazing
Hell. Your press and ours teem with discussions of the subject. Lay
editors of influential secular journals challenge the clergymen to pro¬
nounce their honest convictions. Many have complied, and manfully
denounced the doctrine of eternal damnation, except for a few elect, as
cruel, even blasphemous. The world moves. And now, if there is no
hell, what becomes of the dogma of atonement ? The corner-stone of
Christianity rests upon molten lava—its doom is upborne by the
Miltonic fiend.
Depend upon it, if theology abandons its personal devil, and its pit
of eternal torment, it will not be long before the people of Europe wall
ask the people of Asia to point them to the hard but safe path which
leads to eternal happiness. Henry S. Olcott.
New York, December 27th, 1877.
THE VIEWS OF THE THEOSOPHISTS.
Sir,—The letter of “ M.A., Oxon,” must win the admiration of all
Spiritualists, on account of the manifold light which it presents, in a
kind of kaleidoscopic form. Whether the Isis which he unveils is akin
to the Goddess of Nature; is perhaps a bifrontine manifestation of
Janus; or a multiform presentation of a poly-analystic simulacrum of
Truth, I shall not attempt to discuss.
“ M.A., Oxon.,” demands “ evidence, or proof.”
Such evidence would, I humbly contend, be either inductive or
deductive. If the former, it must either rest on intuition before, or
general evidence after the fact. If the latter, it may rest on either
1. theosophical ” grounds, or on some other a\oyoc condition.
As a humble reader of Madame Blavatsky’s book (which the imper¬
fect nature of my habitual studies must prevent me from compre¬
hending), I think I have seen examples chosen from each of these four
sources of information.
Firstly, the intuitional conceptions are apparently arranged according
to scientific method, whatever the conclusions of the authoress may be.
Some versed in Brahmanistic work may consider that she has gone
quite as far with regard to the pujas as any could venture. If E. Sellon
went further, Moore and Inman accomplished less.
Secondly, the weight of the evidence with regard to the events which
Madame Blavatsky alleges to have taken place in Thibet, must be
tested by the counter-evidence, if any, which a sceptic might accu¬
mulate.
Thirdly, as to the value of the superadded knowledge which
“theosophy” gives. It would be obviously unfair for an ignorant
I cowen ” to give an opinion. At present we have only to deal with
the evidence that the Theosophists assert that they possess certain
knowledge, and the means of using it, for purposes which they may
conceive to be good. Either they are crazy, or this power is real.
The same canons of fair criticism should be applied to them as to
any description of witness;
Fourthly, if some of the sensations leading to a deductive line of
argument, are true or false, they are also dXoyoi, or unconditioned.
Some of these may be transcendental; some may be false; but all are
equally beyond the range of criticism. If an ordinary nisiprius mind
were to attempt to evolve any conditions or criteria of truth from what
is, or at least claims to be, beyond, all criteria, nothing but a hopeless
state of confusion can arise.
Jan. 18, 1878.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
33
As it is therefore impossible to test the theosophical conclusions by the
canons of scientific evidence, we have no right to weigh the Theosophists
(of whom I am not one) by our own balance.
What we have to thank them for, is the proof that some at least of |
the phenomena which have been credited to the action of departed spirits,
and even sometimes to departed souls, are really due to an occasional j
act of the “ medium’s ” own power, by the exercise of his own will, and
are, in fact, mere repetitions of himself. If no other good than this had
been done by the Theosophical Society, we might thank them heartily
for having u cut out the core” of Spiritualism. We have also to thank
them for the expression of opinions in quarters which would have been
deaf to the voice of the metaphysician, although that expression has
perhaps not thrown much light on the underlying problems of Life and
Mind. As a writer in the Pall Mall Gazette some years ago said—
“ The fundamental problem which debated now for ages,
Is still attacked and still unsolved by all our modern sages ;
Is, if an effort I may make, a simple form to throw it in,
Just what we know, and why we know, and what’s the way we know it in.”
  C. Carter Blake,
Sir,—As I have recently had the privilege of much personal converse
with the leaders of the Theosophical Society in New York, I shall be
glad if you will allow me space to reply to some of the points raised by
,c M.A., Oxon.,” in his paper on “ The Views of the Theosophists.” I
do so in all humility, because I am but a novice, a recent student of
these subjects, and am, doubtless, much less informed on many points
connected with them than the author of the above paper. Neverthe¬
less, to use his own apt simile, though I am not the rose, I have lived
near it.
First, let me say that I do not see anything new in the doctrine of
potential immortality. What else is meant by St. Paul when he insists
that we must win our salvation ; that we must rise from death unto life ;
that we must strive after immortality? If we already have it, why
labour, strive, and fight for it? We may be born with this potentiality,
but we have to make our calling and election sure. The Theosoph says
that the spiritual light comes to us at about the age of seven years;
well, the exact time is a detail. The Church recognises it as a grace,
a something superadded in baptism; hence her insistance on the neces¬
sity of that rite at the earliest possible age. For this reason baptism is
a sacrament, and not merely a symbol, even in the Protestant Church.
It is the supreme moment at which the earthly-born lump of matter,
containing already its etherialised portion, or astral soul ensheathed
within it, becomes, as the Church has it, “a child of Grod, and an in¬
heritor of the kingdom of heaven.”
Then, does not the union of the human soul with the Divine spirit, as
set forth by the Theosophists, suggest the real significance of the “ I
and my Father are one” of Christ? and of the expressions, “make
me one with Thee, 0 Lord,” <c dwell Thou in my heart,” “ descend into
my soul,” “ depart not from Thy servant, 0 Thou God of my salvation,”
of the pious believer ? What else is that oneness with God, that union
with Christ, which is the primary end and aim of the Christian
religion? That “ faith ” which is first essential before “works” can
become an effectual factor in the Christian life ? Conversely, as to the
doctrine of possible annihilation. If immortality can be won, it can
also be not won, i.e., lost. And as “ M.A., Oxon. ” asks for the Gospel
I will refer him to the parable of the sheep and the goats.—Matt. xxv.
31-46.
Again, I see in the Theosophist teaching no subversion of the old
tripartite division, viz.:—Body, the physical or outward man; Soul,
the spirit-body of the Spiritualist, perisprit of the Spiritist, astral soul
of the occultist; and Spirit, the Divine Light, the over-shadowing, at
times indwelling God, whose presence, even in the Jewish Temple, was
symbolised by a luminous cloud which rested over the Ark of the
Covenant.
That which, to my understanding, is the most misleading, and calcu¬
lated to produce the most erroneous ideas, is the term, a spirit, my spirit.
Spirit is and remains one; indivisible, eternal, unchangeable, even as
all light that illumines our earth is one, proceeding always from the
same source, though there may be one glory of the sun, and another
glory of the moon.
I hope “ M.A., Oxon.,” will forgive me for saying that he has not
shown his accustomed patience and care in dealing with the views of the
Theosophists. I say this advisedly, for we look to him as a teacher and
leader, and his words are as an oracle to the listening crowd of Spirit¬
ualists in England and America. Therefore, it is the more to be re¬
gretted that he finds himself unable to stand as an interpreter and a
reconciler between the Theosophists and the Spiritualists, and that
he is forced instead to widen the breach already begun, and which
is, after all, more imaginary than real.
For what is the point at issue between “ M.A., Oxon.,” and the
Theosophists ? Both admit that there are various agencies at work in
the production of the phenomena of Spiritualism ; they differ only as
to the rank they assign to each agency. The following illustrates my
meaning, at least approximately •
The Theosophists.
1. Will-power, human souls, dou¬
bles.
2. Elementaries (low-class beings)
and elementals.
3. The good departed.
“M.A., Oxon.”
1. The good departed.
2 Elementaries (low-class beings).
3. Will-power, human souls, dou¬
bles.
Probably neither would agree as to the exact order of the above, but
that, again, is a detail. If there is any truth in the general proposi¬
tion, is it worth while for Theosophists and Spiritualists to divide on
the question of rank or degree l
“M.A., Oxon.,” asks for finalities. He wants things laid down on
“ exact lines of demonstration,” But surely at the present stage of our
inquiry this is to be deprecated. I thought that the one good result of
our nineteenth-century training was the learning to hold our judgment
in suspense, and not to hasten to conclusions. The Theosophists have
furnished us with an exposition of the teachings of the old philosophies
in mattei’s spiritual. We are grateful to them, and we will consider
their theories at our leisure. But we do not want them to do all our
thinking for us ; we will see how much of those theories we can assimi¬
late, after testing them by our own facts, and we can then, if necessary,
re-arrange our own categories. Speaking personally, I for one am able
to see many things, not in Spiritualism only, but in religion and morals,
much more clearly by the light of theosophical teachings ; and I trust
that no prejudices will be roused by the present discussion which may
prevent others from deriving a similar benefit. The shortest road to a
clear understanding is the study of Mme. Blavatsky’s book Isis
Unveiled, in which what I have designated the Theosophist teachings
may be found enshrined. Emily Kislingbury.
Sir,—Mr. Fitzgerald has, by reducing elementals to an equation,
demolished one of the beliefs of the theosophists, but he has not alluded
to the other statements made by Colonel Olcott.
If these statements can be substantiated, and are not mere vague
speculations, they are the most important that have appeared in the
pages of The Spiritualist during the three years I have taken it.
I shall not question all the statements put forward, but confine my
remarks to the view of man as a trinity.
Man, according to the theosophists, is a trinity—body, soul, and
spirit. The babe is born into this world a duality, and becomes a
trinity when it begins to reason. The spirit is separated from soul and
body, sometimes, before bodily death—at any rate, at bodily death—•
and the soul then exists alone for an incalculable time, when it is re¬
united to spirit, and exists for ever; or, on the other hand, it is
annihilated, leaving the spirit to exist for ever.
Let us put these beliefs to the test of common sense—admitting,
for the sake of argument, that the babe is born a duality. We know
that he has a fleshly body, and that he sees, feels, and thinks. Theo¬
sophists will not, I suppose, admit that the fleshly body of the babe
sees, feels, and thinks, but will say that the soul does.
They must then logically admit that a dog sees, feels, and thinks ;
and, as this is not a faculty of his fleshly body, he, too, must have a soul.
Consequently, a babe before it begins to reason and a dog are similar
in this life—body and soul; and, after bodily death, a man and a dog
are similar—soul only.
Soul they regard as sublimated matter, and to this sublimated
matter (molecules or atoms P) they annex the faculties of seeing, feel¬
ing, and thinking, but deny it to gross matter.
Reason they do not, apparently, annex to matter; but on this point
there is some ambiguity in Colonel Olcott’s statement. He says the
babe becomes a trinity when it begins to reason, which must mean,
either that the spirit then joins the duality, and, having the faculty of
reason, reasons for the three ; or, that reason is inherent in the soul,
and, being developed by age, the soul is thereby fitted for the union
with spirit, which takes place.
If spirit be the reasoning part of the trinity, theosophists must
admit that thought and perception are powers of the spirit; for
reason without perception or thought is not to be grasped by any
mind.
Once admit that the spirit has perception, thought, arid reason,
there is no necessity for annexing any of them to the soul, unless theo¬
sophists hold that both spirit and soul possess them.
The body, they say, goes into the crucible of evolution. Why not
the soul, which they consider matter ? Why, in theory, do they
annihilate this sublimated matter ? and how is it annihilated ?
They regard the spirit as immortal. I have endeavoured to show
from Colonel Olcott’s statements that it reasons, perceives, and thinks,
and we may therefore reasonably conclude that the soul will not be
necessary for its well-being during eternity, although it may serve a
purpose for a time after bodily death, just as the body has in this life.
Is not the spirit the man 1
Colonel Olcott will greatly oblige me by restating those views of the
theosophists upon which I have commented, as follows :—
(a) What they know based upon personal observation.
(5) What they believe on reasonable grounds—giving those grounds.
(c) What is speculation only; also by giving a definition of the word
“ reason.”
I am in search of truth, and do not write in a spirit of hostility.
This will be apparent to Colonel Olcott by my endorsing his remarks
relative to will power, about which Dr. Carpenter knows very little,
although he has doubtless exercised it to a limited extent on his
mesmeric sensitives. E. W. Collier.
189, Queen’s-road, Dalston, London, Dec. 31, 1877.
“ SPIRITS AND MEDIUMS.”
j Sir,—In last week’s Spiritualist Mr. William White says that it
would be easy to multiply incidents in which the mind of the medium
| plays no part in the production of phenomena. I think that the fol-
I lowing incident is corroborative of Mr. White’s statement: —
I Several years ago I was present at a seance in the house of Mr.
Everitt, then in Penton-street. Mrs. Everitt had been entranced for a
I short time, during which a sheet of paper lying on the table, and pre-
| viously unwritten upon, had been closely filled with writing which
| related to political events occurring in Jerusalem about the time of the
siege by Titus. The medium having been then disentranced, and the
i lights raised, two gentlemen present, interested in the subject, set them-
j selves to decipher the writing, which was very close and not a little
| “ crabbed.” During this time the conversation was general, and at a
i little distance from the gentleman referred to, I was conversing with
u
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 18, 1878.
the medium on a topic having no relation whatever to that of the
written communication, and I observed that whenever a more than
usually difficult word to read had been encountered, or a word had
been wrongly rendered, the hand of the medium immediately grasped
a pencil lying upon the table, and, upon a separate sheet of paper,
wrote the word more accurately or plainly.
The point in this incident lies in the fact that under no circumstances
could the medium have known at what word the two gentlemen had
“ struck,” for their breakdown not unfrequently occurred during the
time that Mrs. Everitt was addressing some remark to me.
J. Traill Tatlor.
Nithsdale-villa, Wood Green, January 8th, 1878.
Sir,—We have heard a good deal about untruthful spirits; were it i[
not so, Spiritualism would have been long ago held in respect through- 11
out the length and breadth of the land. Spirits, however, often speak j (
the truth. But what of our own spirits ? They, according to Dr. G. j j
Wyld, are all liars on principle, for if it is not true, as alleged by Dr. | (
Wyld, that spirits external, or foreign to themselves, visit us from the I (
other world, I do not say exceptionally, but commonly, what stupendous I j
falsifications our own spirits must be, who almost always impute jj
spiritual phenomena to foreign spirits. One would think that any |(
honest man, who knows that the first wish of his conscious cerebration ! j
is to he truthful in all things, and who believes that it is his own spirit I j
which dictates this wish to his brain—the tool for making thought intelli- }!
gible on the material plane—must be naturally taken aback, and so he I!
is, when told by the psychologist that that which he believed to be his i
better self, his own spirit, the motor of his conscious, as well as his j (
unconscious, cerebration—and which the psychologist, paradoxically ij
enough, will still persist in maintaining is his better self—is so very i
unreliable. For if our own spirit is constantly telling us, in most cases i
of mediumship, as it has been doing for the last thirty years, that it is i (
an external spirit, when it is our own spirit, then all I can say of it is j (j
that it takes up a very disreputable position. I never felt this so i j j
strongly as when I perused Dr. Gr. Wyld’s able paper in The Spiritualist i j |
of December 14th, where he gives much valuable advice as a medical ju
man and student of humanity, but where he gives us also views on | j j
psychology which are so very contrary to appearances. Speaking of [j,!
seances, he says, “ I say that inasmuch as we, as spirits, know we are | |
present, hut have no absolute proof that the spirits of the de- j | j
parted are present, the presumption is that our spirits, known | j j
to be present, are the operators.” It is true that Dr. Wyld j(|
makes a scapegoat of the medium as “ the chief operator,” ij j
which seems hardly fair, since all at a seance are in the same boat; the 111
spirits of all these are accessories, and willing partakers in the m
undoubted fraud which relegates phenomena to foreign spirits, when they | j
are produced by our own spirits, if Dr. Wyld is right. And, really, we ( I
should none of us be ashamed to hear our own burden. And this is the ! !
imbroglio in which he places all Spiritualism and all religions, from the
earliest days to the present hour, with, I acknowledge, some few excep¬
tions. What these exceptions may he he does not notify, and leaves us
to guess; but I will add, subject to contradiction, that almost, if not all
modern Spiritualism, he accounts for by the action of our own spirits as
“ the operators alleging that Spiritualism is not produced by spirits
external to ourselves, or, to use his own term, foreign spirits.” Thus
Dr. Wyld makes our own spirits untruthful under any and every
circumstance; for if they speak a truth, and call themselves foreign
spirits when they are our own spirits, they are still not honest, or
speaking the truth, but mingling truth with falsehood. How comes the
order of nature and nature’s God to sanction such an anomaly as this ?
This is not encouraging. But, does God do so? And the more
powerful our spirits may be, the more derogatory is this novel asper¬
sion, for hitherto lying has been said to be the weapon of the weak.
Now, as regards the power of our own spirits, I yield to none in
upholding that view ; for man is a spirit, and, what is of equal impor¬
tance, a spirit is a man untrammelled with the stupefying burden of the
flesh, which, I believe, gives the spirit an immense advantage over the
man trammelled in many ways. Still, the power of man’s spirit, bur¬
dened as it is, is grand in its attributes. One has but to see a mes-
meriser controlling his patient to be assured of this. The first Pitt,
making the whole House of Commons quail under his eagle eye, must
have been a sight to see. So also Napoleon on the field of battle. So
also is the beautiful picture, by Riviere, of Daniel in the lion’s den.
You see only the prophet’s back, but you know that he is dominating
the savage brutes by his spirit speaking through his eyes. The grandest
picture, however, of all, must have been Jesus, a mere peasant man to
all outward appearance, judged by His garb, driving the money-changers
out of the temple by His innate majesty. And yet we know that even
He, while encumbered by the flesh, required “ strengthening ” by
“foreign” spirits. And though it might not have been a common
thing for the seers among His disciples to view them, yet, doubtless,
angels were with Him constantly unseen by men. The mere fact of His
speaking of the vast numbers He had at His command, shows that He
knew the use of them. That He did not make use of them on that par¬
ticular occasion when, we know, He asserted His power over them, and
their power to assist Him, was because He did not then require them,
for He was going back to His glory. Who could better say ?
To me, to live, I find I seek to die,
And seeking death, find life ?
What He quailed at naturally was. the bodily agony He had to undergo.
We know, also, that Jesus conversed with spirits. On one occasion He
invoked the spirits of Moses and Elias to show them to favoured
disciples, so that not only Jesus saw these spirits, but He made them
visible to Peter and James and John. Was the spirit of Jesus at once
Moses and Elias, or were they emanations from Him, or what? To
which solemn event Dr, Wyld alludes. Now, if this was the case, and
Moses and Elias were Moses and Elias, why should not Mr. Home see
spirits objectively ? Spirits surely see each other. Dr. Wyld tells us
| that on one occasion Mr. Home was in a trance, and he thought he saw
j a spirit, but did not. Why should he not have seen a spirit, if spirits
see each other ? For Dr. Wyld tells us, “ The fact, however, is, that
our spirit, when entranced, is a departed spirit,” and yet he alleges that
j Mr. Home being “ a departed spirit,” since he was “ entranced,” could
not see another departed spirit.
The fact, however, happens to he that seers often do see spirits much
more discriminatingly than men see men. The countenances of emanci¬
pated spirits do not belie their feelings as men’s do, their hearts are read
by every lineament of their features; and their words do not, I believe,
more often than those of men, disguise their thoughts. Spirits, Paul
says, see as they are seen. Dr. Wyld, somewhat forgetful, perhaps, of
the bad character he has given one’s own spirit, its want of truthfulness
again bursts out in admiration of that spirit under trance, saying,
“ Man, when he becomes entranced, is not only above and beyond
matter, but he becomes the controller of matter. He reveals the hidden
angel, and demonstrates that ‘ the kingdom of heaven is within him!’ ”
And yet Dr. Wyld will not believe a simple statement of Mr. Home, at
the very time when “ the kingdom of heaven was within him.” This looks
somewhat inconsistent, I must confess. To me it seems, by Dr. Wyld’s
own description, as printed, that, first of all, Mr. Home plainly saw
the spirit of a lady friend of Dr. Wyld’s, and told him so; and then he
read Dr. Wyld’s own thoughts, that doubted his word, and he told him
of that also, when he was in that state of trance which, as Dr. Wyld
tells us himself, §j reveals the hidden angel, and demonstrates that the
kingdom of heaven was within him.”
Then again, he will fully concede that Mr. Watkins’s slate-writing is
frequently produced by his own spirit, because he says so. Why should
we not, then, equally believe Dr. Slade when he says that his writing
is produced by external spirits ? One is loath to think that this
good, honest man’s “ own spirit ” is telling him lies all day long. I,
for one, will not believe it. It is preposterous that such a man’s
double should be such a contrast to himself, purporting to be anybody
and everybody but what he knows himself to be, playing the stupendous
prank of personating foreign spirits, of every age and every language
perpetually.
Again, when Dr. Wyld urged on that intellectual and powerful
medium, Miss Hardinge, that “her orations were not dictated by
departed spirits, but were the improvisation of her own partially en¬
tranced and, therefore, clairvoyant spirit,” and “ Miss Hardinge
admitted that she believed it might often be so, at least to some extent,”
why should not Miss Hardinge’s explanation have been considered a
good and true one ? Why should not Miss Hardinge’s own spirit have
guided her “to some extent;” and yet, like Milton, why might not she
have also had help from external spirits ? Why may not she, like him,
have still-—
A celestial patroness, who deigns
Her nightly visitation unimplored,
And dictates to her slumb’ring ; or inspires
Easy her unpremeditated lay ?
Which last sentence may well explain Miss Hardinge’s own opinion,
that it might often be her own improvisation, or at any rate her own to
some extent. And, surely, Milton’s celestial patroness could not have
his own spirit! Milton could not have been at once masculine and
feminine.
Again, why should not Miss Hardinge, who spoke so freely, so grace¬
fully, and so entirely without hesitation, be like, in one respect, to the
great Shakespeare himself, who, as his especial friend, Ben Johnson,
tells us, “ never erased a line ” ? Why, again, should not she have
had, like Shakespeare’s rival,
Compeers by nigbt giving ber aid ?
Or, like that same rival, and, indeed, Shakespeare himself, have been
often, entirely under spirit control ?
By spirits taught to speak above a mortal pitch,
as Shakespeare and his rival were taught to write above a mortal pitch
“ by spirits ” ?
And was not Miss Hardinge’s mediumship very like that of King
Henry the Fifth, of England, to whom, Shakespeare tells us—
Consideration, like an angel came,
Leaving bis body as a paradise
To envelope and contain celestial spirits ?
Not his own spirit, not even a single spirit, but 1 spirits.”
Never was such a sudden scholar made ;
Hear him but reason on divinity,
And, all admiring, with an inward wish
You would desire, the king were made a prelate.
Hear him debate of commonwealth affairs,
You would say—it hath been all in all his study.
List his discourse of man, and you shall hear
A fearful battle render’d you in music;
Turn him to any cause of policy,
The gordian knot of it he will unloose,
Familiar as his garter; that, when he speaks,
The air, a chartered libertine, is still;
And the mute wonder lurketh in men’s ears,
To steel his sweet and honeyed sentences.
I need hardly add that Shakespeare puts this charming poetry, this
instructive lesson in Spiritualism, into the mouth of the Archbishop of
Canterbury. I am sure it does the Archbishop much credit, and is a
proof of his sound judgment. Hardly less so is that of the Bishop of
Ely, who gives it as his opinion that King Henry’s “ contemplation ”—
I Grew, like the summer grass, fastest by night,
' Unseen, yet crescive in his faculty,'
Jan. 18, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
35
Shakespeare often bewailed that in his day England was no longer
“merry England;” and it will be surely bad times nowadays if
English Spiritualism should dribble away into mere psychology. But
it looks very like this to windward; and yet I see one bright rift in the
closing clouds, in the heavy English mist, and especially through the present
London fog, which I trust, however, will not be lasting. The mist opens
in the direction of almost the whole of the Continent of Europe, but
chiefly hails from France. While, in England, materialism and
psychology, it would be unjust to add, “ and orthodoxy,” unite to wean
us from a belief in foreign spirits, foreign spirits are evidently flourishing
in foreign parts; for there, foreign spirits have only the materialists
against them. The orthodox then, too, may hate modern Spiritualism,
but they do not deny the truth that external spirits visit men. I have
not yet heard of any self-acknowledged “ psychologists” there. While
in England mesmerists appear to be mostly materialists or simple
psychologists, and we are exhorted to study mesmerism in order to
learn the fallacy of Spiritualism. While we are again reminded of that
everlasting maidservant who talked good Latin, when mesmerised,
because she had heard pupils at a school hammering over, probably,
their bad Latin; and no reference is made to the lad who could always,
under mesmerism, discern and describe the diseases of patients, but
who could never prescribe a remedy unless his “spirit doctor” was
present. While, I say, mesmerism is quoted in England as inimical to
the belief in foreign spirits, we read, in the Revue Spirite of January
the following—“All the members of the Parisian Mesmeric Society are
Spiritualists (Spirites), with very few exceptions. There are among
them mesmerists, healers, and mediums. All do their best to seek out
and to penetrate the sanctuary of eternal truths.’’ Scrutator.
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY?
Sir,—I hope the gentle hint contained in the little paragraph on page
303 in The Spiritualist of December 28th will have the desired effect,
and induce some of the professors of astrology to give us some proof of
truth in their “ ancient art.”
Can it be possible that the writer of the letter on page 311, and signed
C. D. Jenkins, has written it to show what truth there is in astrology ?
Or can it be possible that it comes from an earnest, educated man, such
as an astrologer must be, who puts it forth in good faith, thinking the
world will believe him? If so, it is a failure on both points.
Every intelligent middle-aged man is fully aware that, both in North
America and in Europe, or any other country, in the winter season, all
animal life, including the human race, is more subject to disease and
death, than in the warmer months of summer and autumn. Ordinary
statistics prove it, and they also show that shipwrecks, railway accidents,
mine explosions, and dreadful fires, are more prevalent in winter than
summer, to say nothing about theatres flourishing during the pantomime
season.
Again, take the political part of the letter. Is not every Roman
Catholic, every politician, and every intelligent man in the world ex¬
pecting to hear serious news from Rome ? Of course, they all are ;
because they know the Pope is in such a state that he must die almost
immediately.
Then about the Russians and Turks. I think it does not require
star-gazing to tell us who will probably be victorious next March, if
the war continues so long, or that evil will overshadow the Ottoman
Empire.
Again, the Sultan is to beware of the assassin. This is a very safe
prediction, for it is well known that in almost every country, at the con¬
clusion of a disastrous and exhaustive war, some political fool or
religious fanatic is sure to make an attempt upon the life of the head of
the State, and too often succeeds.
President Hayes, it appears, is not to be re-elected, but unfortunately
he is to have a sore throat, and become lame, which information, if I
knew his private address, I would forward to him, so that he might lay
in a stock of cough-drops and crutches in time.
In all seriousness, I would ask, is this astrology ? Or was it necessary
for Mr. Jenkins to consult the planets Jupiter, Saturn, Mars, the Sun
and Moon, and their relative positions, before he could pen his letter ?
If so, astrology must be a great waste of time to some people, for I
could have written quite as good a letter without it.
Astrologers have had a good innings of late in the columns of the
spiritual press, no doubt with much advantage to the professors; but
lest Spiritualism proper should suffer by comparison, have we not a
right, before the alliance becomes too strong, to demand its credentials
and proofs? I think so, and urge the point just as strongly as men
demand proof of the powers of our professional mediums.
If any astrologer accepts this challenge, I think a fair question for
him to answer would be to state in what week, month, or year the
Prince of Wales will ascend the English throne, and afford the same
information with regard to his son. John Rouse.
80, George-street, Sloane-square, London,
December 31st, 1877.
Sir,—The rule given by Claudius Ptolemy in the third book of his
Tetrabiblos, nearly eighteen centuries since, and to which I referred at
the conclusion of my last letter, is as follows:—
If either of the two luminaries be in an angle, and one of the
malefics be either in conjunction with that luminary, or else distant in
longitude from each luminary, in an exactly equal space, so as to form
the point of junction of two equal sides of a triangle, of which two sides
the two luminaries form the extremities; while, at the same time no
benefic star may partake in the configuration, and while the rulers of
the luminaries may be also posited in places belonging to, or controlled
by, the malefics ; the child, then born, will not be susceptible of nurture,
but will immediately perish.” The evil planets are Mars, Saturn, and
Uranus—the last-named having been unknown to Ptolemy, yet his rule
holds good just the same, in respect to Uranus, as the instance I gave
sufficiently and incontestably proves.
Here, then, we have a scientific rule and a demonstrable proof of
its accuracy. I will give another instance, with your permission,
sir, and of a different nature from the last.
On the 21st December, 1869, 'a medical practitioner, residing in the
north of England, gave me the times of birth of two children, which
he had brought into the world, and the respective moments of whose
births he had noted for the purpose of testing the truth of astrology.
The first, a girl, whom we will designate as R., was born at 7h. 35m.
a.m., on the 19th Dec., 1869, and in lat. 54° SUN., long. 1024' W.
The second, a boy (W.), was born exactly at 8 o’clock p.m., the following
day, and in the same town. The doctor desired me to draw their
respective horoscopes, and to give him my opinion as to their chances
of life. Upon calculation I found that at the birth of R. the sun was
in the eastern angle, the planet Saturn being elevated above the great
luminary, and in close proximity; the evil Mars was also in the
ascendant. The moon was in the western angle, at the full (being only
four degrees separated from the opposition), separating from the oppo¬
sition of Saturn and hastening to that of Mars, while, at the same time,
she was applying to the conjunction with Uranus. Moreover, the moon,
the sun, Saturn, Uranus, and Mars, were all in close parallel delineation
to each other. The sun having nearly the sesquiquadrate (135 deg.
distance in longitude) of Jupiter, and the moon applying to the
sextile of the greater fortune, were the only fortunate rays in
the horoscope. Hence I declared my belief that although life
might be spared to her for a few years the child would not sur¬
vive childhood. At the boy’s birth the configurations of the lumi¬
naries were very similar, but neither of them was angular, and the
ascendant was free from affliction; consequently, I expressed my
opinion that the boy was much more likely to attain maturity than the
girl. About a year afterwards the doctor twitted me, in a jocular
manner, with having been mistaken, for, said he, “ Mrs. R.’s daughter
is much stronger than Mrs. W.’s son, and the latter has had delicate
health, while the former enjoyed the best of health.” However, it is
sad to have to relate, although in a scientific sense it is an interesting
fact, that in January, 1872, the little girl was attacked with measles,
and, as she was recovering from that disease, erysipelas, and subse¬
quently hydrocephalus also, supervened, and she died at the age of two
years and one month. The boy, after suffering more than one attack of
bronchitis, grew into a tall, well-developed child, and still lives. The
doctor was greatly struck with the fulfilment of my prediction, and
stated to me that after such an experience he could not doubt that there
was a very great deal of truth in astrology, and that, instead of ridi¬
culing, the scientific world ought to investigate it. The student who
takes the trouble to cast those horoscopes, and compares them with the
rule I have quoted from Ptolemy, cannot fail to see that they are not
mere coincidences. They are selected out of a great number that I
possess, and consideration for your space, sir, alone prevents me from
supplementing them by others which contain a like amount of proof of
the truth of Ptolemy’s rule.
To the physician a good knowledge of the science would be of incal¬
culable benefit. There can be no doubt that the prognosis of disease
would be universally advanced by it. Hippocrates, who paid great
attention to astrology and prognostics, is reverenced to this day for his
high attainments, nevertheless, the medical gentlemen of the present
century neglect his teachings when they touch upon that tabooed science
(astrology); and, consequently, the science of prognosis has made but,
comparatively, little progress.
In the first volume of the Life of H.R.H, the late Prince Consort, the
time of the Prince’s birth is given, viz., 6h. a.m. of 26th August, 1819,
at Rosenau. On casting the figure of the heavens for that moment, and
for the latitude of the place of birth, 50° 18 'N., the planet Mercury will
be found in the ascendant, and in the 22nd deg. of the sign Virgo. If
we turn to Yol. I., page 18, of Zadkiel’s Handbook of Astrology, we
shall find the following description of a person born with Mercury well
dignified (as he is when in Virgo, which is his exaltation and house),
and it corresponds very closely to the Prince Consort’s well-known
characterIf Mercury be well dignified at the time of birth, the
person will inherit a strong, subtle imagination and retentive memory,
likely to become an excellent orator and logician, arguing with much
eloquence, and with strong powers of persuasion. He is generally given
to the attainment of all kinds of learning, an encourager of the liberal
arts, of a sharp, witty, and pleasant conversation, of an unwearied
fancy, and curious in the search of all natural and occult knowledge,
with an inclination to travel or trade into foreign countries.” The
Prince of Wales was born at lOh. 48m. a.m. of 9th November, 1841,
and at that moment of time the planet Jupiter was rising (and in sextile
aspect to Venus). His Royal Highness is the very impersonation of a
jovial character, and his notorious bonhomie is in strict keeping with the
nature and influence of his ruling planet.
By means of the planisphere the planetary positions and aspects in a
nativity are demonstrable as truly astronomical—in short, there is
nothing in common with gipsy fortune-telling to be found in astrology.
Astronomers boast of the great charm of their science, by which they
are enabled to predict eclipses, transits, &c.; but astrologers, who base
their predictions also upon astronomical phenomena, are too often
ridiculed for their temerity; although the reason why in the former
case the predictions are held to be true science, while in the latter case,
the astrologer’s predictions are stigmatised false science, is not easy
to comprehend. Alfred J. Pearce,
London, January 14th, 1878.
WHAT IS THE INTELLIGENCE?
Sir,—In reply to the query put by your correspondent, Mr. C. C.
Massey, I may state that my eldest son, who knew the deceased Mr.
Burt, is a good writing medium; the second, who was present with me
36
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 18, 1878.
at the seance, is not mediumistic; and I am impressional. In a rather
extensive experience with mediums in Australia, the United States, and
Britain, I have readily fallen into rapport with the mediums, with whom
I have sat, and often received a large share of the attention bestowed
on the visitors, being sometimes permitted to handle the forms when
others were not. As an illustration, I may mention a special sitting
with William Eddy, New Jersey, on a Monday forenoon, when four out
of six of the forms came to me, and I was asked up to shake hands
with them in the middle of the room, some distance from the cabinet
(where, when they passed out and in, we saw the medium reclining in
trance on a chair). One of them I recognised as a relation. Only one
form came to a friend who was with me, but he was not permitted to
approach it; then “ Honto,” the Indian female, came out in full Indian
costume, and said, in a strong voice, that she had to thank me for
coming to see them; that, as I was not afraid of spirits, they were not
afraid of me; they could come to me and I to them easily. At this
private sitting there were with me a friend from the colony, and my
youngest son, a good trance medium. There came to us, in a good light,
four men, a child, and a female. One of the men was at least four
inches taller than the medium, and much thinner. The next an old
man, stout, round-shouldered, dressed as my old relative used to dress,
even to the colour of his coat. Another was a dark, thin, haggard little
man, who seemed much disappointed when I said I did not know him.
I asked for a sign to help me to do so. He placed his hand to his chest
and drew it in, as if suffering in that part. I said that still I did not
recollect him, but added, “ My friend can sometimes impress me. Will
you try to do this r He turned into the cabinet; I went to my seat.
Before taking two steps, I felt that it was one I had known. I turned
and said, “Is that Mr. McM 1” A shower of raps was the
response; and when we reached a settled home in this country and
resumed our family circle, he was one of the first to control, saying,
“ You know I came to you at William Eddy’s,” This gentleman died
of asthma in Glasgow while on a visit to his old home, and was an
intimate friend. But I am making my reply too prolix; so shall only
add, like your contributor “T. J.,” that these pleasing test experiences
have come to me only at intervals, and generally when least looked for.
They have served as an anchor to keep me from drifting into all
manner of doubt. J. Carson.
London, January 14th, 1878.
Sir,—While noting sundry ideas on the above subject in your
columns, and being myself an inquirer in general as to Spiritualism, I
am led to notice the following events which occurred last evening at the
Quebec Hall, at a public member’s seance in my presence. They occurred
in the absence of any spirit control over any so sitting.
I saw, clairvoyantly, a large flower with leaves in the centre of the
table. During the presence of the flower a dark hand (the right) was
seen to traverse the table towards a sitter, and in so doing passed by my
hands, visibly to some others as well as myself. Shortly after the left
hand followed in the same direction, both staying before a person
partially under control, and remaining some time, one on his hand, the
other suspended in the air, as it were, a few inches. Were those a
medium’s hands, or how can their appearance be clearly explained ? What
did they proceed from, if not from a disembodied spirit? Layman.
SLATE-WRITING.
Sir,—Our anonymous friend “ T. J.” says that I am “ at sea ” re¬
specting the modus operandi of the writing on Slade’s slates. I am so
entirely. He has “ not had an opportunity of witnessing this particular
phenomenon,” but is subsequently “disposed to think,’’ and “inclined
to think ” various hypotheses. Of the phenomena which he has not
seen, he divides the unknown amount by ten, and assigns to “ Allie ”
nine-tenths of the phenomena, and to Allie + x the remaining one-
tenth. Careful and repeated observation will, no doubt, lead us to
appreciate the value of this mathemetical argument.
C. Carter Blake.
Sir,—I never could rightly understand why Dr. Carter Blake assumes
the possible presence of a pigmy hand, to do the writing on Slade’s
slates. The letters are formed as if by a hand of ordinary size, with
the muscular centres of motion at the usual distance from the point of
the crumb of pencil. The pencil is used, for sometimes it has been
noticed to be worn by the execution of the writing, and heard to fall or
roll when the last letter is finished. Probably an invisible hand, to
which the wood of the table is as nothing, is there, and merely the tips
of its fingers are materialised sufficiently to grasp the pencil. The
Research Committee, with a medium outside a nailed box, and spirit
hands or forces doing work inside, ought to settle these points.
W. H. Harrison.
38, Great Bussell-street, London.
THE DECEIVING SPIRIT THEORY.
Sir,—“ T. J.’’ shows that the mother of one and the father of another
person were described as being at a seance in person ; that the sitters
were allowed to go away with these impressions, which impressions (if
“ T. J.’s ” after account be accurate) were false. What can we infer
from such a spirit? Either that it cares nothing for instructing men by
giving accurate information, or that it wilfully allowed the sitters to go
away with false impressions, which, seeing it could read their minds, it
must have known to exist. In either case the spirit is careless about
truth, and, as a consequence, not worthy of credit. Yet upon the asser¬
tion of such a spirit, who has proven itself untrustworthy, “ T. J. ”
jumps to the idea that Spiritualists must be. floundering in an ocean of
doubt. How pleased some minds are with doubts! With what avidity
they pounce upon them, even though the inspirer thereof be a foolish
spirit who takes pleasure in deceiving.
This leads me to notice the curious positions some persons take up
with regard to Spiritualism. Though humanity is floundering in the
mire of error and uncertainty, spiritual and physical; though diseases
are laughing at the doctors, crime laughing at our senators, wars and
domestic strife laughing at the so-called Christian teachers ; and the
Source of Life, and the power that sustains the universe, baffling the
so-called scientific men ; yet here we are with the key in our hands of
the door to the land of certainty. Some of us have opened that door,
and caught glorious glimpses of the harmony of the universe, and the
causes of things; yet some of us are trying to prove that we have
Spiritualism without spirits, and confounding the phenomena of mes¬
merism with spiritual manifestations. Why is there not more desire to
know what spirits can tells us for our elevation, and how we can
conquer the physical and mental obstructions that bar our way to the
mastery of matter ? Those who have been on the other side hundreds of
years can show us these secrets, but it is useless for them to try to edu¬
cate minds unprepared to receive the seed. J. Croucher.
18, Overston-road, Hammersmith, Dec. 24th, 1877.
Sir,—It would appear that there are a number of men of mind,
who consider the manifestations and communications spiritualistic to
proceed only from the spirits of the mediums or others in the flesh.
It may doubtless be so sometimes, but it is to be remarked that
when sought to be tested in this respect by questions, the reply is a
statement that they are departed spirits.
Many years ago a book was published, called The Elements of
Spiritual Phylosophy, purporting to come from advanced departed
spirits, through R. P. Ambler, as medium. As designedly proceeding
from such spirits addressed to mankind, it treats of “ The Tendency
of Materialism,” “ Interior Realities,” “Spiritual Intercourse,” “ Evil
Spirits,” and “ The Destiny of Man,” and throughout appears strik¬
ingly to give evidence of emanating from spirits, and purposely in¬
tended for the information and good of mankind.
There are other publications given as from departed spirits, which
supply similar evidence, just as Mrs. Tappan’s discourses supply in¬
ternal evidence of being given through her from the departed ones
who professedly use her. E.
Penge, - -
SPIRITUALISM AMONG THE HINDUS.
Sir,—It is evident to every well-informed man that belief in spirit
communion is not local; nor merely is it wide-spread, but absolutely
cosmopolitan. I have met not only Singhalese and Chinese Spiritual¬
ists, but hundreds of Hindu Spiritualists, gifted with the powers of
conscious mediumship. And yet Mr. W. L. D. O’Grady, of New York,
informs the readers of The Spiritualist (see issue November 23rd), that
there are no Hindu Spiritualists. These are his words—“ No Hindu
is a Spiritualist.” As an offset to this assertion, I present the following
extract from a letter written me by Peary Chand Mittra, Calcutta,
September 11th, 1877. I have not only been in correspondence with
this Hindu gentleman for several years, but have the pleasure of his
personal acquaintance and friendship. These are his exact words :
“ Thank God my inner vision is being more and more developed, and I am
talking with spirits as with human beings. The study of Spiritualism is
boundless ; and the more attenuated the soul is—the more free it is from body
and the nervous system—the more we realise the nobleness of Spiritualism.”
Some of the best mediums that it has been my good fortune to know
I met in Ceylon and India. And these were not mediums ; for, indeed,
they held converse with “the Pays and Pesahsays, having their habi¬
tations in the air, the water, the fire, in rocks and trees, in the clouds,
the rain, the dew, in mines and caverns.” But they were influenced by
—they saw objectively—and they talked with spirits that they knew
and loved while in their earthly bodies.
One of the best tests of spirit identity, and one of the most correct
readings of my past life that I ever received, was through the clair¬
voyant mediumship of a Zamiel woman in Southern India.
J. M. Peebles, M.D.
London, January 13th, 1878.
DR. SLADE’S VISIT TO VIENNA.
Sir,—Dr. Slade returned to Berlin on Friday evening. He was
having good success in Vienna, and patronised by the aristocracy.
Matters were very hopeful, when the police took it upon themselves to
interfere, by summoning him to appear before the chief of their depart¬
ment. Not having his passport he was required to leave. To avoid
further trouble, he took the train for Berlin. J. Simmons.
Hotel Kronprinz, Berlin, January 14th, 1878.
. ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
P. W. (Huddersfield) writes to correct some errors, due chiefly to his indis¬
tinct writing, namely, the making of 3’s like 5’s. He says :—“ There are
several typographical errors in my letter on “ Finding the Right Ascension
of the Midheaven,”, appearing in your Dec. 21 issue. Perhaps it will be
well to prevent perplexity to your readers to point them out ? Page 298,
line 25, for ‘ 13h. 52m. 33s. ’ read ‘ 13h. 32m. 33s.’ ; line 26, for
‘ 13h. 51m. 28,8s.,’ read ‘ 13h. 31m, 28-8s.’ ; line 29, for ‘ Robert
Crannon ’ read “ Right Ascension ’; line 43, for ‘ for ’ read ‘from ’ ; line 47
for ‘ for ’ read ‘ from.’ Foot note—for ‘ X 15 ’ read ‘ X L’ The last correc.-
tion, I am afraid, is due to a slip of my own pen.”
Many letters are kept over this week from want of space.
Several workers in Spiritualism in London have been kind enough to furnish
us for printing some highly complimentary notices of their own doings,
written by themselves, or sometimes written and sent by their personal
friends. Did it ever occur to them what a trustworthy journal this would
become did we permit its columns to be so inspired? Our official reports
are written only by those accredited by the journal.
Jan. 18, 1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
iii
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
mlism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proring the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation-
- ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committoe consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging "the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reahty of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,;also about the periodica]
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Cmens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen hy one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s. ,
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes.
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and rigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols, 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the nudiumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; eheap edition,
7s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Bddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 560 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiratn n-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testunony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s'. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS", by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer," s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . • .76
The Seer. „ III. „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
. Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion ... .36
Penetralia; Containing Marmonial Answers . ..76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
. Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . . .30
Morning Lectures . , . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s a.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . , 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . 5 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . .06
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter ■
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 •
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 8
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S'anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three, vols. . . . . . . ■ , IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed,
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously "Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained- He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be -
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Frice Is. Id., post free,
w. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, "W.O.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Is., post free, or 500for Is. Gd.,post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
rglHE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
JL describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 18, 1878.
A
NEW ERA.-
H
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATURE.DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
LORD BEAGONSFIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use END’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe flruit).’ It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &e., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered' as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health". The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. END’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WHAT EYERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes
“Since I have used END’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
FUND’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
“ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must -have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A
GEJTERAX LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS NORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent torm.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver • complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
i the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“ On April MI purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. — I am,
dear sir, yeurs respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett.”
Aug. 80,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX,
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
' Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
L The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Yision.—22. “Underthe Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to .be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“No!one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability... . Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-streetj. Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology) ; A.M. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent. .. . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.. .. They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book.. .‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself... . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the .London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.”
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous,...
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” l_N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.\ ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gUt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
\Y. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, "W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late "Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy •with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta-'
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S liritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Ciystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, (Vitchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
, Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly (Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XlII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XlV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions..
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, "W.O,
Printed tor the Proprietor by Bevbridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
