llEGISTEKEU AS A NEWSPAPER,
SK® jot/f(KSi< ^dis^Kd^.
  #tot OTmiCt^ foit^ S^intitafom in %m\ jntEm, 
No. 379. (VOL. XV.—No. 22.) LONDON: FRIDAY, NOYEMBER 28, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
.TAWTIS WATiTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qnality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
 8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W. 
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LI&HTS.
By LISETTE EAKLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS EOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here thrown together
the results of his own experiences, at the request of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author has treated the subject
exactly in the way in which it is desirable that matters on which the public require information should be treated; and he tells concisely, and
yet fully, many of the secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar
to the progress of what he terms £ a just appreciation of the powers and the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and he
holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also mesmerise far too
many persons. As to the beneficial results of mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a cure for epilepsy, headache,
toothache, or other ailment; and his final advice to the practitioner is,4 Call it what you like, but persistently employ it for the benefit of the
sick and suffering.’ Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume, he may at any rate be credited with having written
an interesting work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
^ THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, G IR G A U M BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to “The Proprietors of ‘ The Theosophist' ’* at the above address.
Just Published. A Catalogue of a curious and interesting
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
ON MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT, PSYCHOLOGY,
And other Kindred Subjects. Posted Free on Application.
fobtV Thousand of standard books of every description always on sale.
Libraries and Small Parcels Books Bought or Exchanged.
CHARLES LOW, BROAD STREET*, BIRMINGHAM.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 28, 1879.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos .Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cqx. .
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ . BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trtjbner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).’
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and setting
forth his experience.
With a dedication to
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till Si On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At home every day except Snnday),
Will lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour-
street, every Sunday night.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
164, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Church (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes,all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
MR. A. H. FURMAN
BY
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Crown 8vo, pp. 155, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its hearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science, and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“This is a very ingenious work. . . . His eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics ; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Pall Mall
Gazette.
London : Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Just Published.
(Medium of Count de Bullet)
Will hold his
HOME CIRCLE
Every Tuesday and Friday Evening at Half-past Eigh
o’clock, at his Rooms
26, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, LONDON
Mr. Firman will be at home every day, except Sun¬
day, from 12 till 5, to make arrangements for Private
Sittings.
IVTOTICE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
AM NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER, at home for private sittings and mesmeric
treatment; development for clairvoyance and other
forms of mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily;
and eight to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
l\/riss K. S. COOK’S private and free
Ay-JL dark and slate-writing seances are held every
Tuesday evening at half-past seven, at 33, Museum-
street, Holborn, under permission of Mr. C. Blackburn,
Admissions obtainable only by invitation from Miss
Cook, 53, Eleanor-road, Hackney, London.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely hound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Sjiiniv.aliit Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
90, Great Russell-stroet, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
4, Grenville-street, Bruns wiok-square.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE,
of the Fox Sisters, of New York City, U.S.,
gives seances at her rooms every Tuesday, Thursday,
and Friday, from 3 to 6 p.m. Private evening seances
from 8 to 10, either at house of party or at Mrs.
Kane’s rooms, must be made by letters sent to Mrs.
Kane, at 4, Grenville-street, Brunswiek-square. No
private seances wtll be given on the above days adver¬
tised for seances from 3 to 6 p.m.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
V_y DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
eJAs>
xxl th$ ni to Stowes and £tto$ nf
No'. 379.—VotujviE fifteen; Number twenty-two.
LONDOIST, FRIDAY,
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
Os. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARBIS 0N.
33, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia. Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
O. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President, of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. O. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M;B.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., O.E., F.B.S.
Miss Florence Marryat. i
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J.M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel.E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.B.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Eue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Boyal,Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne ; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Bue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago; 819, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
rnHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O,
NOVEMBER 28tli, 1879.
I
SUDDEN DEATH OF MR. SERJEANT COX.
Notwithstanding the certainty with, which
Spiritualists realise the nearness of the next world,
and the happy surroundings there of those who have
led good lives here, none will be able to hear without
sorrow of the passing away of Mr. Serjeant Cox. He
was a power in the outer world : but in connection
with Spiritualism he was a great deal more—he was
a man who, with high professional reputation and
social standing to lose, testified during the greater
portion of his life to the truth of the unpopular
phenomena of Spiritualism and Psychology. By the
sincerity of his utterances, by his loyalty to facts and
to his own convictions, in relation to these subjects,
he deeply endeared himself to his fellow-workers in
. the same field; his whole heart was in the matter,
and wordly duties occupied a secondary place in his
thoughts. Among Spiritualists the grief at his loss
will be deepest, and in our midst his memory will be
cherished longest.
Last Monday night he took part, with two of his
children, in a literary and musical entertainment at
Mill-hill, near Hendon, and soon after his return
home to Moat Mount, Highwood, he entered his
library, and was found dead there half-an-hour
afterwards, presumably from heart disease. He was
of advanced age, and but for the sudden shock to his
friends, such a death to one whose life was all hap¬
piness, kindliness, and peace, seems preferable to
passing through a transition state of lingering
suffering. With almost prophetic voice he spoke
during his recent presidential address to the Psycho¬
logical Society of his “ declining in the vale of
years,” and he said that he was one “ on whose
brows, to use the beautiful Welsh metaphor, the
flowers of the grave are blooming.”
The Globe of last Tuesday thus narrates how the
news of his decease was received at the Middlesex
Sessions House :—
The learned judge (Mr. Serjeant Cox) presided in the Second
Court yesterday, and appeared to be in his usual good health,
and his last words were to the jury, to whom he said, on the
rising of the Court at the conclusion of the business of the day,
“ Gentlemen, five minutes to ten to-morrow morning, if you
please,” and hurriedly left the court, as was his usual custom.
The Assistant Judge (Mr. Edlin), on coming into Court,
speaking with considerable emotion, said: “It is with the deepest
sorrow and regret I have to announce the death of my highly-
respected colleague, Mr. Serjeant Cox. A telegram from his
son-in-law, Captain Edwards, announcing this sudden and sad
event has just reached me, and I am without words to express
the sense of pain under which I make this announcement.
There is not a magistrate of this Bench, not a member of the
Bar, not a man who knew him, who will not share in the
grief I feel. At this moment I shall not attempt to speak of
nis many high qualities. We all know that as a judge he was
so just, humane, and painstaking, and his kindness of heart
and amiable disposition endeared him to every one of us.’’
Mr. G. S. Griffiths, on behalf of the Bar, expressed the deep
regret with which every member of the Bar nad heard of the
254 THE SPIRITUALIST. Nov. 28, L879.
death of Mr. Serjeant Cox. The sad news had rendered him j
almost incapable of uttering a single word. The learned judge, j
by his amiability of character, by his genial manners, and his j
large and warm heartedness, had won for him the esteem of all j
who knew him, and who had the privilege and honour of his !
acquaintance. He fulfilled his duties as a judge with unswerving j
integrity, and was ever desirous to temper justice with mercy, i
The Bar had lost a dear and sincere friend, and one and all
sympathised with his family in their great affliction at. the loss :
they had sustained.
The Assistant Judge then said that in their deep affliction he i1
felt that as a token of their respect to their departed friend the j'
Court should at once stand adjourned until to-morrow, and a pro¬
clamation was immediately made to that effect. j
Mr. Serjeant Cox was born in 1809, and at the |
age of thirty-four was called to the Bar at the Middle j.
Temple. He was raised to the degree of Serjeant- jj
at-Law twenty-five years afterwards, and was ap- n
pointed Recorder of Portsmouth. Mr. Serjeant Cox jj
married, in 1845, Rosalinda Alicia, only daughter of j<
Mr. Fonblanque, the Commissioner in Bankruptcy, j
In 1870 he became Deputy-Assistant Judge of j
Middlesex; he was also Justice of the Peace, and a j)
Deputy-Lieutenant for Middlesex. He founded, and I (
for some years edited, the Law Times. He was also j j
proprietor of the Field and other newspapers, now j(
the property of Mr. Horace Cox. He was the author j j
of many books connected with legal subjects, including j (
The Law of Joint Stock Companies and The Law j;
of Registration and Elections, which, with some of j(
the others, are now standard text books. One of his jj
latest legal works was The Principles of Punish- jj
ment. Among his books on general subjects were jjl
The Arts of Writing, Reading, and Speaking, and j\j
Heredity and Hybridism. Among his writings on jjj
Psychology were The Mechanism of Man, A Mono- j \ j
graph on Sleep and Dream, and a variety of presi- j j j
dential addresses to the Psychological Society, which j\j
were first published by his authority in this journal, jjj
and afterwards issued in separate form by Messrs. Kj
Longmans. His shorter writings on spiritual pheno- j j j
mena were of late years exclusively contributed to jjj
The Spiritualist, of which he wa,s a warm and true jjl
friend; and recently, when some of the people who jj
are trying to injure it because it served the public j
interests attempted to get him to join them, he wrote !>
them a sharp rebuke, although he was one of the jc
kindliest of men. He was one who made many jj
friends, and who never took up an antagonistic jj
position to anybody until forced to do so by jj
circumstances. jj
In the early days of Mesmerism, and at a time |j
when public ignorance covered the subject with jj
obloquy, he investigated that branch of psychology, jj
discovered it to be true, and with unswerving faith- jj
fulness fought for it to the last both in public and in j j
private. When the rising star of Spiritualism made j j
its appearance he likewise investigated, and testified jj
to the truth of each of its almost unbelievable phe- jj
nomena as fast as he obtained good personal evidence j j
of its reality. In his investigations he would never jj
ally himself with enthusiasts, and frequently expressed j j
to us the opinion that such -were a bar to all useful jj
scientific and mental research. For many years he jj
denied the sufficiency of the evidence that any jjj
section of the phenomena came from spirits; he jjj
believed them to be due to some unknown or jjj
psychic force, limited and governed unconsciously by w'
the intelligence of the medium. Some of the ma¬
terialisation phenomena fitted in awkwardly with this
hypothesis, and he long denied their reality. The
sight on one or two occasions of a living spirit hand,
while the hands of all the other sitters were accounted
for, satisfied him for the moment, although afterwards
his reason seemed to recoil from such an improbable
fact, and it was not till he one day held both the
hands of Mr. Harry Bastian, and saw living
materialised spirit hands and arms flitting in
and out of that medium’s body, that he fully
gave in on this point. Within the last year
or so he has freely admitted to his friends his belief
that spirits cause a portion of the phenomena,
and at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s seance last week,
he stated to all present that such was his conviction.
The seances there had much to do with bringing about
this conviction. He recently wrote to us that he had
learnt more from the phenomena evolved through
the mediumship of Mr. Williams, under the favourable
conditions provided at Mrs. Gregory’s seances, than
he had done elsewhere for a long time previously,
and the reports in these pages about living spirit
forms being sometimes seen to come from the body
of Mr. Williams, while that medium was held by the
hand on the one side by himself (Mr. Serjeant Cox),
and on the other by an equally trustworthy witness,
were published with his consent and approval. His
more recent opinions in relation to spirits would
probably have been made known, had he lived, at
the meeting of the Psychological Society next week.
Mr. Serjeant Cox was a constant advocate of the
prosecution of research in Spiritualism, and joined
the few who are conducting the experiments in¬
augurated by Mr. Charles Blackburn, in the weighing
of mediums during manifestations. He made
arrangements with Mr. Blackburn on this head
during his last visit to Manchester. He was also
associated with Mr. Wm. Crookes in his experiments
with mediums, and Mr. Crookes says that he laments
the loss in Mr. Serjeant Cox of one of the best and
truest friends he ever had.
The life of Seijeant Cox was one so actively useful
to Spiritualism that the position left vacant by his
death is one difficult to fill. Not that there are not
many persons with names and reputations in the
world as fully acquainted with the subject as he was,
but that in these days of absence of the chivalric
spirit few men with high positions to lose can be
found to risk suffering for the sake of that which
they believe to be true, and women are often just as
bad. Outside private life no body of people can
be found who so deeply regret the decease of Mr.
Serjeant Cox as Spiritualists, whose sympathy
extends also to the bereaved relatives of that great
and good man.
Dr. Slade is now in Vancouver’s Island.
Next month the remittances for the supply of The Spiritualist
during 1880 are due. The amount is 10s. 10d., post free to any
part of the United Kingdom.
The prospectus of the Holborn Literary and Debating Society,
36, Great Queen-street, London, sets forth that one of the papers
to be read at one of its forthcoming meetings will be on
“ Spiritualism,” by Mr.. B. Howard. The society considers a
great variety of subjects. The honorary secretary is Mr. J. M.
Fells, 68, Melbourne-terrace, Barnwell-road, Brixton.
Nov. 28, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
-J-'MiJ-EH 
DR. MONCK. j)
Sir,—I have been requested by a number of Spiritualists, |(
sympathising with Dr. Monck in his long prostration and loss i \
from illness, brought on by his untiring devotion to the cause we j j
have at heart, to appeal most earnestly for some temporal help, j (
which just now he sorely needs. ]
The Rev. T. Colley, before he left for Natal, appealed to a few j\
friends with some success, but in his hurried departure the work i)
was left unfinished, without a centre round which Dr. Monck’s j /
numerous friends could rally and testify to the value they placed | (
upon his work. j \
I must not trespass upon your space to say all I could wish j >
on the value of such mediumship as Dr. Monck’s, nor to describe !)
the urgent need he stands in now for help to regain such a posi- I (
tion as will enable him to place his services once more at the j (
call of Spiritualism in England, if possible as an unfiaid medium; I \
but I, or any of the committee with whom I have the honour to i)
act, will satisfy any inquiries that any assistance now rendered j {
will be most valuable, and will be appreciated by Dr. Monck.
The under-noted gentlemen have authorised the use of their j (
names as a ct Committee of Reference,” and I have pleasure in i >
adding that most of them have subscribed liberally to the pro- |)
posed testimonial.
May I ask all friends to unite heartily in this matter ? Any j j
subscriptions sent to me shall be duly acknowledged in a list I i >
propose to publish shortly. Those who have promised to sub- i<
scribe are requested to do so at once. |<
Bis dat qui cito dat. Morell Theobald.
62, Granville-park, Blackheath, or 30, Mark-lane, November 26th, 1879.
Committee of Reference. H
W. P. Adshead, Belper; Dr. Brown, Burnley; James Burns, ;(
IS, Southampton-row; A. Calder, 1, Hereford-square, S.W.; j)
A. J. Cranstoun, Lucerne; J. H. Gledstanes, Merignac; Baron j >
von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Holstein; Sir Charles Isham, Bart., j)
Northampton; Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., 21, Birchington- |(
road, N.W.; E. Dawson Rogers, Einchley; Morell Theobald, j (
Blackheath; J. Pemberton Turner, Leamington and Birmingham ; | s
Mrs. Tyndall, George-road, Edgbaston; Hensleigh Wedgewood, I)
31, Queen Anne-street, &c.
to correspondents.
Up to the time of going to press, we have received no further communication j (
from the two principals in the Massey-Fletcher correspondence, and do not I /
wish to occupy space with comments sent in by third persons, the principals I /
being able to speak for themselves, and to be held responsible for their direct I)
statements. j)
A statement having been put into circulation that we have refused to give j /
publicity to any of the papers read at the winter meetings of the National I)
Association of Spiritualists, it may be explained that no such arbitrary action j)
has been taken. Also that, in pursuance of the old-established system of | \
giving publicity to selected papers worth it, we sent an offer to the author of I \
the first paper read this session, to print his memoir in The Spiritualist, and a i (
refusal written by the secretary was sent us. j (
[)
The Church newspaper. The Guardian, of the last three j\
weeks, contains some articles and letters about one of the ;>
members of the Council of the National Association of Spirit- j)
ualists. K
St. Martin’s Summer.—The summer weather which occa- j)
sionally favours us in the early part of November has this year j (
been unusually fine and of somewhat long duration. In England | (
it is commonly termed St. Martin’s Summer; in Normandy and n
Brittany it is named in honour of other saints, and in other parts I)
of the world it is known as the Indian Summer. Shakespeare, i)
who knew everything, mentions this late summer twice. In the j (
first part of Henry IV. occurs the passage :—“ Earewell, thou I (
latter spring! farewell, all hallown summer.” And in the first I)
part of Henry VI., LaPucelle, when before the walls of Orleans, !/|
is made to exclaim: — “ This night the siege assuredly I’ll j (\
raise, except St. Martin’s Summer, halcyon days.” In Hone’s | (i
Year Book it is termed St. Martin's Little Summer, and is h
defined as consisting of “the fine days at the beginning of l)j
November which intervene upon the usual boisterous weather of in
the month.” St. Martin’s Day has in the present year been j(
succeeded by a glorious St. Martin’s Summer, and the latter Ivj
again by decidedly boisterous weather.— City Press. P>
255
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN NOYA SCOTIA.
GRASPING A REAL APPARITION.
By the last mail we have received from our corre¬
spondent in Nova Scotia three written declarations,
made under legal sanction, of the appearance of a
spirit to more than one witness at the same time.
One of the documents, that signed by Mr. William
Sharp, gives a graphic account of the seizing of a
genuine apparition ; it is, perhaps, the most vigorous
attempt of the kind on record, and shows that the
spirit was to some extent materialised.
The original depositions are now in The Spirit¬
ualist office, where they will be carefully preserved.
Other witnesses of phenomena of the kind would
render good public service by attesting the facts in
the same efficient manner, and sending the docu¬
ments to us for printing:—
DEPOSITION OP MR. ELIAS DIMOCK.
I, Elias Dimock of Windsor, in the county of
Hants and province of Nova Scotia, late mate of the
ship L. Stapleton, of the City of New York, do solemnly
declare that on the evening of Thursday, the eleventh
day of September, in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-nine, between
the hours of nine and ten o’clock, I left the house
of William Sharp (situated about a mile and a half
from the town of Windsor), where I had been spend¬
ing the evening. Two persons left the house with
me, C. Edgar de Wolfe, Esquire, of Windsor, barrister,
and a lady. I was going to my father’s house, not
more than a quarter of a mile from the residence oi
Mr. Sharp. We had only gone a short distance, and
were traversing a small pasture, when I caught a
glimpse of a figure in white behind us and sideways
to me. I called the attention of my companions to
it, for it was plainly discernible—a tall figure all
in white, even the head appeared to be shrouded in
white. Mr. de Wolfe shouted at the figure “ to keep
off, that we wanted nothing of it,” or words to that
effect, and then the figure seemed to move more
rapidly towards us. It came with great swiftness
and with a gliding motion; I could perceive no
motion like walking. I turned round and looked at
it several times. When I first saw it it was coming
from the direction of an old apple orchard. We
walked rapidly across the pasture, and got through
the bars of the fence that divides my father’s land
from the Sharp property. On the other side of this
fence is a lane leading up from the main road to our
house. The figure followed us along the line of this
fence, keeping all the time on the Sharp side of it,
till it came to the corner where a cross fence formed
the upper boundary of the pasture. I was on the
inside nearest that corner, and I plainly saw the figure
at that corner about ten feet from me. As we
walked up towards our house I went up to the lane
fence and saw the white figure gliding away in a
northerly direction. I had a good view of it, and it
seemed to be up from the ground two or three feet.
We all saw it several times. When Mr. de Wolfe
called out at it when he first saw it, I asked him not
to speak to it. There were cattle feeding in the
256
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 28, 1879.
pasture, and in coming after us the figure went among
them and they ran in all directions as if frightened.
Mr. de Wolfe had been conducting interesting mes¬
meric experiments in Mr. Sharp’s house that evening.
The subjects were a hired man and boy living in the
house. There is an old house in ruins which has not
been inhabited for about seven years. It is very near
the new house of Mr. Sharp. The old house is used
in part as a store house, and in some portions poultry
roost and shelter. For many years there has been a
report that the old house is haunted, and noises of a
strange character have even within the last few years
been heard there. About six years ago, when I was
home from sea, I was alone in the pasture before
mentioned about eleven o’clock at night, and I sud¬
denly saw a figure in white (similar to the one I saw
on the evening of the eleventh day of September)
mysteriously appearing a few feet in front of me. I
stopped, and the figure disappeared as suddenly and
strangely as it had appeared. I have been ques¬
tioned by several persons about the appearance we
saw as above stated, and to the various suppositions
offered by them, attributing the figure to fraud, viz.,
to a man on stilts, or a person dressed in white
designing to frighten us by a practical joke. I have
only to say that I consider such suppositions base¬
less, that I believe the form to have been that of a
spirit, and the most careful inquiries relative to the
possibility of personation by any person in the form,
as well as calm reflection since I saw the apparition,
have only confirmed me in that belief. I am not a
Spiritualist, take no Spiritualist periodicals, never
attended a seance or consulted a medium in my life,
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously,
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
Act of the Parliament of Canada, passed in the
thirty-seventh year of her Majesty’s reign, intituled
f An Act for the suppression of voluntary and extra¬
judicial oaths.”
Declared at Windsor aforesaid )
the eighth day of November 1
j • i,*. i j j r Elias Dimock.
one thousand eight hundred
King,
J
and seventy-nine
Before me, George H.
Notary Public.
Be it known and made manifest unto all people that on the
eighth day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-nine, I, George H. King, notary public,
duly authorised, admitted, and sworn, residing and practising in
Windsor, in the county of Hants and province of Nova Scotia,
in the dominion of Canada, do hereby certify that Elias Dimock,
the person named in the foregoing paper, writing, or declaration,
did duly and solemnly declare, in due form of law, to the truth
thereof on the day of the date thereof, and that the name “Elias
Dimock ” thereto subscribed, is of the proper handwriting of
the said Elias Dimock.
In testimony thereof I have hereunto subscribed my
name and affixed my seal of office.
George H. King,
Notary Public.
DEPOSITION OF MR. C. EDGAR DE WOLFE.
I, C. Edgar de Wolfe of Windsor, in the county of
Hants and province of Nova Scotia, barrister, do
solemnly declare that on the evening of Thursday,
the eleventh of September, in the year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and seventy-nine, I left
the house of Mr. William Sharp (situated about a
mile and a half from the town of Windsor), where I
had been passing the evening, and had subjected to
the mesmeric influence a coloured man and a boy,
servants of Mr. Sharp, and had exemplified the mes¬
meric power in a novel way. I left his house between
nine and ten to go across the fields (interspersed with
patches of woods) to stay all night in the house
attached to a flour-mill property in which I am
interested, and which property is situated about four
miles by the road from the town of Windsor. With
me were a lady who lived not far from the mill place,
and Mr. Elias Dimock, who also has made a declara¬
tion in this matter. We walked first through a small
pasture in the rear of an old house now in a very
dilapidated condition and uninhabited, which has for
many years been reported to be haunted, and in
which noises have been heard during late years and
even during the past few months, and, as appears by
the declaration of Mr. William Sharp, even more
singular manifestations have taken place. We had
not proceeded far in the pasture, which was full of
trees, when my attention was called by Mr. Dimock
to something which he saw behind us. I looked
around and saw a tall figure completely shrouded in
white. From the peculiar appearance of the figure
and the manner in which it moved I believe it to
have been a spirit. My first impulse, which I fol¬
lowed, was to call out to it “to keep away, that we
wanted nothing of it.” Mr. Dimock checked me for
speaking to it. It came after us apparently with
greater rapidity after I had spoken thus. We walked
rapidly across the pasture to the fence and bars, and
got into the lane which leads up to Mr. Isaiah
Dimock’s house from the Post-road. The form fol¬
lowed us as we walked up the lane. It kept on the
inner or Sharp side of the fence. I did not happen
to look at the corner made by the cross fence joining
the lane fence and forming the upper boundary of
the pasture, and therefore did not see the figure then,
but I distinctly saw it after we left the pasture fol¬
lowing us along the line of the lane fence. I noticed
in the pasture the peculiar gliding motion, and
though I did not look at it so often or perhaps so
narrowly as Mr. Dimock, the height of the figure
which impressed itself on my mind would indicate
that his statement that it was up from the ground is
correct. The various wise suggestions of some of
those who have heard of this appearance, that it was
some one playing a trick upon us, are unsustained by
a particle of evidence. One man suggested that in
all probability Robert Curry, a man who works for
Mr. Sharp, and who was at that time an inmate of his
house, or Robert Sharp, a brother of William Sharp,
and captain in the merchant service and then and
now home from sea, were the authors of a practical
joke upon us on the night in question. To silence
such doubts, which were based upon nothing but the
utter disbelief in the possibility of apparitions, the
result of education and religious teaching, I instituted
inquiries at Mr. Sharp’s house, and found that when
we left the hotise on the evening in question,
Mr. Robert Curry had gone to bed, and Captain
Sharp was absent from home, having gone several
miles with a horse and waggon, and had not returned.
And of the fact of Captain Sharp’s absence I was
aware when I left the houseand both these men
utterly deny (as well they may) any participation or
Nov. 28, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
257
knowledge of any such trick or personation. Mr.
Sharp lives in a quiet and scattered country neigh¬
bourhood, and it is not likely that the presence of our
party in this house was known to the neighbours at
all, the nearest one being nearly if not quite a quarter
of a mile awTay, and the supposition of fraud on the
part of the quiet country folk is in the highest degree
improbable; and I have shown that to charge such a
thing upon the members of Mr. Sharp’s household is
a thing that cannot be sustained, but is disproved,
and the appearance of the figure to three of us on the
evening of the eleventh of September, its peculiar
appearance and motion, sustains my belief that it
was a spirit, and further proof is afforded in Mr.
Dimock’s declaration that he saw a similar figure in
the same pasture about six years ago, and also by the
strange experience of Mr. William Sharp with a like
figure in the old house, as recorded by himself in his
declaration, and I make this solemn declaration con¬
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the Act of the Parliament of Canada, passed
in the thirty-seventh year of Her Majesty’s reign,
intituled “An Act for the suppression of voluntary
and extra-judicial oaths.”
Declared at Windsor aforesaid!
the sixth day of November C. Emae db WoLFE.
one thousand eight hundred
and seventy-nine, J
Before me, George H. King,
Notary Public.
Be it known and made manifest unto all people that on the
sixth day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-nine, I, George H. King, notary
public, duly authorised, admitted, and sworn, residing and prac¬
tising in Windsor, in the county of Hants and province of Nova
Scotia, in the dominion of Canada, do hereby certify that C.
Edgar de Wolfe, the person named in the paper, writing, or
declaration on the other side hereof written, did duly and solemnly
declare in due form of law to the truth thereof before me on the
day of the date thereof, and that the name “ C. Edgar de Wolfe ”
thereto subscribed is of the proper handwriting of the said C.
Edgar de Wolfe.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto subscribed my
name and affixed my seal of office.
Geobge H. King,
Notary Public.
DEPOSITION OF ME. WILLIAM SHARP.
I, William Sharp of Windsor, in the county of
Hants and province of Nova Scotia, farmer, do
solemnly declare, that about seven years ago I, in
company with David Bell of Shuhlnacadie, in the
county of Hants, millwright, who was then on a visit
to me, went into the old house which adjoins my
present residence with a view of discovering the
cause of certain noises which had been heard there,
off and on, for years. We went in at the front door and
entered the largest room in the house off a little
entry-way—the east room, which had not been
occupied for sixteen or seventeen years. A short
time before this, the room on the other side had been
occupied for about five years by a man named William
Miller and his family, but at this time, and since, the
old house has been entirely uninhabited by human
beings, and has gone so much to decay as not to be
tenantable. We stationed ourselves in the east
room. I took my position at the farther side of it
near a door which opened into a little room. Mr.
Bell placed himself about the middle of the room. I
was then about twenty years of age, in perfect health,
and with muscles hardened with hard work dn the
farm. Mr. Bell was about thirty years of age,
weighed over two hundred pounds, and was an un¬
usually powerful man. It was dark in the room, but
we had no knowledge of or faith in the existence of
those beings popularly called ghosts, and so we were
not troubled in the least by superstitious fears. We
were bound to discover and seize the author of the
noises. I have neglected to state distinctly that our
visit was made in the evening. We did not wait
long, I think not more than five minutes, when we
heard noises, like a person or animal tramping about
the house ; we could not tell from the sounds exactly
where. Suddenly a figure dressed all in white ap¬
peared close to me. It seemed to come out of the
little room. It appeared to be the form of a tall
woman. I instantly seized it round the waist, but to
my utter astonishment I could not hold it. It seemed
to get smaller, and in some inexplicable way got away
from me, and in passing Mr. Bell he grasped it firmly,
but to his amazement he could not hold it; his expe¬
rience being exactly similar to mine. It made for
the window, the lower sash of which I think was
open, and Mr. Bell followed it, and as it was going
out of the window grasped it by the foot, determined
that it should not escape, but it went out of the win¬
dow in an upright direction. Mr. Bell thought he
had wrenched the foot off it, but found to his surprise
that he had nothing in his hand. Mr. Bell is at pre¬
sent in Prince Edward Island, or his declaration in
this matter would also have been made. I do not
believe that any mortal could have got away from
Mr. Bell and myself in the manner described; and an
additional singular circumstance is afforded by the
fact that during our tussle with it the figure never
spoke or uttered a sound, and I cannot come to any
other conclusion than that we seized that evening a
spirit form. I know nothing about Spiritualism,
either by reading or consultation with any medium.
I am constantly occupied with the work of my farm
in a quiet country neighbourhood, and I make this
solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the Act of the Parliament
of Canada, passed in the thirty-seventh year of Her
Majesty’s reign, intituled “An Act for the suppres¬
sion of voluntary and extra-judicial oaths.”
Declared at Windsor aforesaid"]
the sixth day of November
one thousand eight hundfed
and seventy-nine, J
Before me, George H. King,
Notary Public.
Be it known and made manifest unto all people, that on the
sixth day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundfed and seventy-nine, I, George H. King, notary
public, duly authorised, admitted, and sworn, residing and
practising in Windsor, in the county of Hants and province of
Nova Scotia, in the dominion of Canada, do hereby certify that
William Sharp, the person named in the foregoing paper, writing,
. or declaration, did duly and solemnly declare, in due form of law,
to the truth thereof before me on the day of the date thereof, and
that the name “ William Sharp,’5 thereto subscribed, is of the
proper handwriting of the said William Sharp.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto subscribed my
name and affixed my seal of office.
George H. King,
Notary Public.
William Shaep.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 28, 1879.
CABINET MANIFESTATIONS.
A YEAH or more ago, when it was discovered by i)
experience that nearly all the public scandals brought I)
down upon the movement in England and America K
were due to cabinet manifestations, those manifesta- j)
tioDS fell into disrepute, and were wisely almost K
abandoned by our best mediums. Mr. Williams and n
Mr. Eglinton then discontinued cabinet stances to a k
large extent, and almost always obtained their j|
materialisations in open circles, off their own pre- u
mises, and while their hands were held by the sitters | j
next them. Under such conditions they are i(
frequently able to obtain half-length materialised ;)
forms, which possess a power of flotation. | (
Recently a tendency has been evinced here and j)
there in London and the provinces to return to some | (
extent to cabinet seances, and with correspondingly evil : /
results, for complaints are again flowing in to us in a j(
private way as to the harm done to mediums and to j)
the movement by cabinet manifestations, which as a I (
rule convince new inquirers that what they see is j;
imposture, and not unfrequently violently shake the | (
confidence of those Spiritualists whose experience is j|
limited. There is reason for supposing that in the |(
majority of cases, although not in all, the forms are jl
nothing but the mediums in a state of trance, de- K
monstrably freed from bonds by spirit power j;
whenever the character of the medium has been Is
protected from obloquy by himself and his friends, j)
by the use at the beginning of the stance of bonds h
from which he cannot free himself by normal j)
means. For scientific purposes, and in the pre- |\
sence only of Spiritualists who understand the \)
subject, there is no harm in cabinet stances, which K
even then are useless unless held under stringent 1/
test conditions; but they should never, even in K
a small way, be brought before new inquirers, who
should be introduced only to phenomena of a more j\
convincing character, so easy obtainable through the j?
same mediums. Is
At least five out of every six of the public troubles I ?
to Spiritualism in America have been due to cabinet n
stances ; and after the way in which they were con- I?
demned for general purposes when the subject was n
fully considered in England, it is to be hoped that j)
the apparent temporary revival of them may be Is
checked. If attempted to be used for proselytising j)
purposes they usually succeed in planting a rooted js
antipathy to Spiritualism in the minds of new }/
inquirers, and sooner or later get the mediums and Is
those who present them into trouble. j)
Mysteby.—“ Thou wilt have no mystery and mysticism ? Wilt i (
walk through the world by the sunshine of what thou callest I \
logic? Thou wilt explain all, account for all, or believe nothing j)
of it? Nay, thou wilt even attempt laughter! Whoso recog- !)
nises the unfathomable, all-pervading domain of mystery, which I (
is everywhere under our feet and among our hands ; to whom the j (
universe is an oracle and a temple, as well as kitchen and castle- IS
stall—he shall be called a mystic and delirious! To him thou, j /
with sniffing charity, wilt protrusively proffer thy hand lamp, and j /
shriek, as one injured, when he kicks Ins foot through it. Wert I (
thou not born ? Wilt thou not die ? Explain me all this—or do i (
one of two things: retire into private places with thy foolish I j
cackle; or, what were better, give it up ; and weep not that the I)
reign of wonder is done, and God’s world all disembellished and I (
prosaic, but that thou thyself art hitherto a sand-blind pedant.” j(
—Carlyle. U
SPIRITUAL DYNAMICS *
BY GEORGE WYLD, M.D., EDINBURGH.
Forty years ago, at Edinburgh, in the year 1839,
I made the acquaintance of the late Mr. John Dove,
subsequently sub-editor of The Builder: and was. by
him first introduced to the marvels of mesmerism
and clairvoyance.
Mr. Dove was for thirty years an incessant experi¬
mental student of alchemy and its cognate mystical
co-relations.
He was the most indefatigable and strongly
enthusiastic man I have ever known; but it was
not difficult to discover how one of so determined,
persistent, and impetuous a will should have made
few friends and retained still fewer; and thus it was
that for many years I was almost his only visitor.
I have always believed that if Mr. Dove had to his
unequalled powers of persistent perseverance and
his wonderful faculty of comparison and generalisa¬
tion superadded worldly wisdom and the art of
lucid and abridged statement, and had soared with a
less transcendental ambition, and turned his great
analytical faculties to the discoveries of science in
the ordinary current manner, he might have become
the greatest chemist of the age.
It was under the tuition of this man that my
mind was first opened to the conception of that
mystery of nature called animal magnetism, with its
phenomena of rigidity of the limbs and total
indifference to the tortures of the body as applied by
inquiring and sometimes ferocious sceptics; that
condition which may be described as <f being dead in
the flesh but alive in the spirit,” when the realisation
of mind acting independently of a human organism
is mauifested as in clairvoyance, when the bodily and
mental secrets of those present can be seen and revealed
by the ecstatic, when objects miles and thousands of
miles distant are seen and described, when not only
the secrets of those present but the worldly acts of
those who have departed this life are made known,
and when sometimes the secrets hidden in the womb
of fate are foretold.
In those days the clairvoyante always spoke in her
own name, in the first or third person singular. Her
expressions were, “ I see so and so,” or, “ She says so
and so;” this third person seeming to indicate the
other, not her conscious self, on the plane of this
earth, namely, the new, or exalted, or spiritual coun¬
terfeit of the earth man. The clairvoyante in those
early days never spoke of being controlled by indi¬
viduals or bands of foreign spirits, but professed to
utter the revelations of her inner and secret spiritual
nature and vision.
It must not be thought from these observations
that I deny that evil, or fallen, or earth-bound spirits
may infest the bodies of those physically, mentally,
or morally diseased; or that, on rare occasions,
angelic spirits may not whisper to our souls. On the
contrary, I believe, as the Bible and other histories
teach, that a large proportion of what is called
insanity is, as the victims themselves persistently
declare, the result of demoniacal possession by unclean
spirits; while, on the other hand, I believe that a
large proportion of all instructive and grand and
* Read before the Cambridge University Psychological Society, November
20th, 1879.
Nov. 28. 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 259
noble thoughts comes to our soul or spirit through its
unconscious communion with angelic intelligence, or
through the spirits of those who live in spirit and in
truth.
The late Sir James Simpson, the renowned Edin¬
burgh physician, and the late Sir William Hamilton,
the profound metaphysician, took great interest in
Mr. Dove’s mesmeric experiments. Dr. Simpson was
in the habit afterwards of ridiculing the subject,
having doubtless before his eyes the fate of the good
Dr. Elliotson, who having introduced mesmerism
practically to his patients at University College
Hospital, was, as the reward of his benevolent work,
execrated by the profession and expelled from the
hospital, while his practice fell from about £5,000 a
year to about £1,000; and all this because he desired
to impart a knowledge regarding a mystery in
human nature which he knew to be of transcendent
importance in the treatment of disease.
For some ten years subsequent to the above events
I had little opportunity of pursuing my observations
in mesmerism and its kindred subjects, but in 1855
Mr. Home arrived in London, and my avidity for
that form of psychology known as Spiritualism
became profoundly awakened.
A knowledge of mesmerism not only predisposes
the mind to a ready acceptance of many of the phe¬
nomena called spiritual, but throws a light on these
phenomena which cannot be otherwise obtained.
In the presence of Home, hands of human form and
character became materialised, and made themselves
known both to sight and feeling; and I can never
forget the overwhelming sensations I experienced
on first seeing and touching these hands—warm,
sensitive, detached hands—which grasped my hand
with the perfect reality of human hands, and yet
dissolved from the grasp as no human hands could
do. On awaking next morning after the night which
followed my first experience, I had the greatest diffi¬
culty in persuading myself that the whole had not
been a dream.
Shortly after my first introduction to the mystery
of spiritual phenomena, I retired from further active
investigation of the subject, in the belief that it was
one accompanied by great moral, if not physical
danger; but my interest became again excited when
the Davenport Brothers arrived in London, and
demonstrated the fact that no form of material
bonds could resist the disintegrating force of magical
power.
I readily admit that here, as elsewhere, fraudulent
imitations sometimes took place so closely simulating
the reality as to deceive all except those who, by repeated
tests and crucial experiments, know that there is a
spiritual force exhibited in the presence of certain
human beings, which, being the ultimate force in
nature, can analyse and dissolve all secondary
chemical and mechanical forces.
The Dialectic Society, by a committee, investigated
the claims of Spiritualism in 1870, and invited those
who had experience to give evidence. I was also
invited to attend some of the sittings of the com¬
mittee, but I was never called upon to give
evidence.
At one of these meetings I met Mr. Serjeant Cox
for the first time, and volunteered to him the opinion
i| I bad formed that as man was potentially a spiritual
| being, the phenomena called spiritual might come
| from a force in the possession of some one bodily
| present at a stance, quite independent of the aid of
| the spirits of departed human beings.
Mr. Serjeant Cox expressed himself much in-
| terested in this view, and in 1872 published his
1 important and interesting book in illustration of the
| psychic force.
The views I hold, however, on this subject differ
1 from those held by Mr. Cox as expressed in his
11 writings; for while he holds that all the so-called
)j spiritual phenomena are produced by the psychic
! force of human beings in the body, I, on the con-
)j trary, hold that all phenomena within the capability
\| of departed human spirits can be produced by the
spirits of human beings not departed, but that, as
{I presented to us, some of the phenomena are from the
>| one source and some from the other; that this
\ | psychic force can be exercised by some living beings,
(i but that much more easily and frequently the souls of
> departed human beings can exercise the same force.
Again I ceased actively to occupy myself with
Vi Spiritualism until the spring of 1877, when Slade
(I arrived in London.
I paid three visits to Slade, and obtained about
(| twenty experiments, and became absolutely con-
! vinced that in his presence writing could be obtained
)| in closed spaces, access to which by human hands or
)| instruments was an absolute impossibility.
Thus it was that when Lankester dragged Slade
U into the police-court, I at once came forward and
{j became his bail for £100, and afterwards appeared as
{\ a witness in his defence.
I stated in court that I would, in order to save
\| time, base my evidence almost entirely on one
< I experiment.
My statement was that I took one out of many
n slates lying on a side table before me. Having taken
j | this slate in hand, I would not permit Slade to touch
(j it. I examined it for a considerable time on both
)j sides. It was a dry, dusty, new school slate, without
| the slightest trace of writing on its surface. I then
)\ took a small fragment of slate pencil and laid it on
)j the table, and covered it with my slate. I then
\j seized both of Slade’s legs between mine, and both
(j his hands in mine, and having rested my elbow
j| on the slate, I said to Slade, “I am ready; now
u write.” Instantly I heard a sound as of rapid,
)j energetic writing with a slate pencil, and then
u three raps to indicate that the message was finished
)j I released Slade’s hands, and, carefully raising the
<| slate from the table, I found a message clearly
>j written in strong dusty slate writing, composed of
(| about twenty words, and containing five of my
>i family names, and a message urging two of my
(j sceptical brothers to investigate the subject. I
) added that the table on the top of which the slate
(| rested was a solid, hard wood table, and that physical
>| access to the under surface of my slate was an
(j impossibility.
This experiment, together with many others I had,
\| enabled me in court solemnly to assert that I could
)\ not be more certain of my own existence than I was
\ that the writing on the slate could not possibly have
) i come through human hands or instruments.
260
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 28, 1879.
The theory I formed regarding the production of
this writing was that it was probably in most
instances produced by the soul or spirit of Slade him¬
self, but unknown to Slade ; and it may, perhaps,
assist the sceptic to comprehend how such things are
possible if I offer the following attempt at an ex¬
planation.
We all know that the magnet can repel and attract,
and elevate from the ground in opposition to the laws
of inertia and gravity, a bit of iron.
This, although the most commonplace of experi¬
ments, and one known to man for thousands of years,
is yet as to its meaning altogether beyond the com¬
prehension of the most profound students of mag¬
netism. It is a mystery of mysteries, and yet it is
universally known and believed.
It is incomprehensible how one bit of iron can
attract and draw through space another bit of iron
without any conceivable attachment or physical com¬
munication.
Why, then, do all human beings believe in a fact
which is not only incomprehensible, but abstractedly
considered an impossibility ?
The reply is, we believe it because we know it to
be a fact. Exactly so ; and the initiated believe in
spiritual phenomena for exactly the same reason—
they know them to be facts—with the absolute con¬
viction of their own existence.
If, then, the magnet, contrary to the laws of
inertia and gravity, can move a bit of iron in a
closed space, to and fro and up and down, why
should it seem impossible that the human mind, or
will, or soul, or spirit, should, without the interven¬
tion of human hands, move in like manner, but with
intelligence, a bit of slate pencil, and write intelli¬
gent sentences ? If the soul, when clairvoyant, can
see without eyes, why should it not be able to act
without hands ?
The phenomena of magnetism and slate-writingare
both equally wonderful; the only difference is that
slate-writing not being at all times obtainable, like
magnetism, is more extraordinary.
I felt so intensely earnest in my convictions
regarding the genuineness of the Slade performance,
and the profound bearing it had on the laws of mind
and matter, that I felt I could have submitted to any
martyrdom in its defence, and, therefore, I never
hesitated to appear as a witness in defence of Slade,
although knowing that ninety-nine persons in the
hundred regarded Slade as a common impostor. I
could not appear at a police-court publicly in his
defence without incurring great professional risks.
The result was as I anticipated. I was abused and
denounced in many quarters, I received many insult¬
ing anonymous letters, some friends quarrelled with
me, and my professional receipts declined.
But there is a grand promise by the Master, that
no one who forsakes friends and worldly goods for
the truth but shall even here receive an ample
recompense.
So it has been with myself. For one friend I have
lost I have gained twenty better friends, and even my
worldly prosperity has been indirectly greatly thereby
increased; and not only so, but my professional repu-
tion has been greatly increased also indirectly
through Spiritualism, for there came to me in a
(| mysterious manner, in connection with the Slade trial,
>| an idea which I conveyed to the profession through
p the London press, which letter showered upon me
) j immediately in reply about four hundred letters of
(| thanks and congratulations from medical men in all
)! parts of England.
Reverting to what I have said regarding the dif-
V ferent views held by Mr. Serjeant Cox and myself on
(j this subject, I hold that man is equally a spiritual
>| being whether his body be alive or dead, and that
<| the spirits of certain human beings may leave the
)| body in sleep or during entrancement, or during mere
\I “absence of mind,” when the double may become
;i visible; while other human beings here exist who can
by practice of will force project their souls or spirits
)| externally to the body, and operate on matter at a
\ i distance by what is called magical power.
If we can realise these statements and understand
si how the spirit is the man, and the body a mere
-1 machine of a temporary nature by which matter is
\i brought in contact with matter in the ordinary course
)j of nature, and that matter itself is only a form
si assumed by force, we have the key to all the
)i phenomena called spiritual, whether occurring
\ ] through the agency of foreign spirits operating
) | through mediums, or by the will force of positive
s! magicians, or by the pneumic force of ecstatics.
(i Human beings almost without exception believe that
) i after the death of their bodies they exist as intelligent
<| operating spiritual beings. If so, wherein lies the
>! difficulty of believing that such beings should walk
; | the earth, and through the agency of a medium’s
b body operate in spirit circles ?
The orthodox doctrine is that the spirits of the
) \ departed are confined either in heaven or hell, and
<1 cannot revisit the earth. But the Christian teachinof
) I is, that evil spirits operate with demoniacs, and that
(i good spirits and angels at rare intervals also reappear
) | on this earth.
I \ I say such high spirits are described as rarely appear-
) i ing on this earth, and therefore I believe,if spirits they
(j are, which haunt our promiscuous spirit circles, they
)! must be idle, foolish, or purgatorial spirits for the
(i most part.
Once realise that the spirit is the man and the
ij body a mere temporary appearance, and that what
| we call matter is only form assumed by force, and all
j the phenomena called spiritual can be understood,
j and the foundation of a true psychology is established.
Let us review the order of these phenomena, and
| on this theory attempt a possible solution of the
| problems.
1. Mesmeric power can be demonstrated to act on
I sensitives who will obey from a distance the will of
| the operator, thus demonstrating the action of mind
| on mind at a distance.
/ 2. The very common experiment of blindfolding
ji certain individuals and then touching them with one
finger, and thus compelling them to act according
si to your secret thoughts, demonstrates again the silent
|| action of mind on mind, and mind on the body of a
(| second person.
3. Audible raps by invisible agencies are produced
\| on tables, &c., in the presence of psychics. Madame
) | Blavatsky produced such in my presence at will, and
ii said the sound was produced by electric explosions
261
Nov. 28, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
proceeding from her fingers in obedience to her
will.
4. So then we can understand that it is but a step
further to move tables and articles of furniture in
the presence of psychics by the forces of attraction
and repulsion with intelligence, possessed by the
spirits either of the living or the departed.
5. From the moving of furniture it is easy to pro¬
ceed a step further and produce direct spirit writing
in closed spaces by the operation of attraction and
repulsion, guided by intelligence, or by the will of
foreign spirits who may be present.
6. Every one experienced in these phenomena has
both seen and felt human-like materialised hands—
some soft, some hard, some dry, and others moist,
some warm, others cold.
7. If hands can be materialised by spirit force, it is
only one step farther to materialise the semblance of
an entire human body, and accordingly such forms
have hundreds of times been produced (although
this is a production twenty times more difficult
than the production of hands), and have, in
many respects, acted as human beings in
the flesh. Such forms may be merely animated
automata, or they may be inhabited by the souls of
living or departed human beings, or they may be
merely masks or simulacra.
These materialisations, however, are often simulated
by entranced or, sometimes, fraudulent mediums.
8. A form presenting itself as any known individual
departed this life may be a mere simulacrum, it being
as easy for spirits to produce the likeness of any desired
form as it is for the actor or painter in this life to do so;
and, more so, for spirits have access to all kinds of
information. And hence the identity of personating
spirits cannot easily, if at all, be proved logically to
third persons, but can only be instinctively perceived
to be true by those to whom the communication is
directly given.
To comprehend how spiritual materialisations are
possible, we must reflect on the fact that all sub¬
stances are composed of a few elements, and that
those elements exist in the air and moisture and
earth in contact with us.
There was a time when this, our planet, was an
incandescent mass, which, as it cooled, became a
globe of crystalline rocks, and surrounded probably by
watery vapohr, which ultimately became condensed
as water. From the action of this water on the
solid rocks, and with the assistance ofj the atmo-
sphefe, a soil was produced, out of which soil, by a
process beyond all natural knowledge, spring plants
and animals.
If so, then we have inorganic substances as the
matrix out of which spirit created living and organic
beings. We know that the air plant flourishes
without any soil, and that gold-fish flourish in pure
water without visible organic food ; and if so, it is not
difficult to believe that Louise Lateau, of Belgium,
or Miss Fansha,* of New York, might live for years
without organic nourishment.
We know that the seeds of plants have the power
of creating from inorganic elements at a certain rate
of time flowers and fruits unlike the original seed;
that for instance the seed of a rose can, out of clay
|)| and fetid manure, create a rose of ravishing fragrance
|(j and beauty.
If seeds have such a power, is it impossible to
K| conceive that the God-like human spirit, when it has
|) | “faith as a grain of mustard seed,” may have also
a a creative power, and create from the elements
m around us the semblance of human hands, faces, and
j|| forms?
9. Certain individuals at -times are possessed of the
| (| power of elongating their bodies some inches. We
>1 inay conceive of this if we reflect that cold india-
|j rubber cannot be elongated, but if warmed it can.
m This fact in itself is almost as mysterious as the
111 powers of the magnet to attract and repel iron. Thus it
) is analogously with the human body. In its normal
| condition it grows at a slow rate, but under the
11 analysing, dissolving, and expanding influence of the
|| ultimate force in nature, spirit, such acts can be
jjn . accelerated. The rapid growth of plants, as ex-
m hibited by Indian jugglers, is a further illustration of
i/j a like spirit power.
10. The power of will or mesmeric force, or
|)| spiritual force, or prayer, to heal disease, is easily
K j understood on the dynamic theory of matter.*
All form is the result of given forces. That which
m becomes deformed or diseased, does so either because
|(| the original force is deficient or deranged, hence all
j)j which is required to heal is that a true force dis-
k | places the evil or irregular force. Harmony is thus
j)| produced in the molecular position of the atoms, and
|(| a cure is the result.
11. The alchemist asserts that the base metallic
|(i lead may|be converted’into the royal gold, and that
I); the man of clay may be transformed into the divine
j(j man by the action of spiritual force; and this we
|>! can as readily believe as we can that natural forces,
i(| being the machinery used by the Divine Mind, such
1)1 forces can be set aside, and the ultimate, or spiritual,
(j or divine force be re-established in their place, as
)| occurs in the working of miracles. By miracle I
j(j mean the substitution of a spiritual force for the
|)| ordinary forces in nature.
12. The passage of matter through matter is of
!)i all spiritual phenomena the most difficult to realise.
Kj Moreover, it has never been actually seen in action.
j)j Christians believe'in Christ having so acted when He
Kj appeared “in the midst of His disciples, the doors
i/j being shut ;5’ and so also with Peter when he passed
out of prison. And Spiritualists can enumerate not
j)j less than a thousand instances where books and other
|(j solid substances have entered closed chambers.
The dynamic theory is that there is no such thing
Kj as solid matter, but only a certain proximity of
j)j atoms, or centres of force, held in position by attrac-
m tion, and that by an expansive spiritual or centri-
id fugal force these atoms can be so separated as to
K j admit of the passage of other so-called solid sub-
(l stances. Atoms, if placed in a like electrical con-
m dition, would repel each other; and as spirits assert
i(j that electricity is their motive-power, we can realise
j)| how the atoms of so-called solid matter may open
)| and shut instantaneously.
We know that solid ice, by the application of a
!;| force called heat, which is only certain vibrations,
i;; * The World Dynamical and Immaterial, by B. £. Wyld, LL.D. Oliver tiud
l' ' Boyd.
* See Spiritualist Oct. 13th, 1878,
262
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 28, 187&.
elevating or centrifugal force of
can be dissolved into liquid water; and we know by
an increased amount of beat force, that is, by more
rapid vibrations, this water may be dissipated into
invisible steam. Apply an expanding force which
can, like spirit, act instantaneously, and the magical
performance of matter instantaneously passing
through matter is so far explained. “ In a moment,
in the twinkling of an eye, all can be changed.”
18. Certain individuals have been levitated from
the earth to various elevations, as witnessed by
many, and as is well known to the historians of the
Romish Church.
When this takes place it may be either from
the assistance of foreign spirits, the body and the
earth being in a like magnetic condition, so that the
one repels the other; or it may be from the genera¬
tion of hydrogen in the tissues—analogous to the
power possessed by the fish to secrete air, and thus
rise in the water; or, as with ecstatics, it may be
described as the
Divine Love.”
14. The highest manifestation of spirit force is
illustrated in those who, living a pure and holy life,
do in ecstatic prayer not only rise from the ground
but become effulgent, for “ when the eye is single the
whole body is full of light, but of this I have spoken
more abundantly in another place.
Spiritual phenomena demonstrate that there is
within man's body, and, when that body dies, external
to that body, an intelligent spiritual force, which can
directly by will-power, or indirectly by controlling
other spirits, move without the intervention of a visible
organisation material substance, and thus in five
minutes refute the materialistic talk and ignorance
of three thousand years.
But Spiritualism has its evil as well as its true
side.
It is a great evil when ignorant, or foolish, or idle,
or selfish people make it a subject of amusement. It
is a great evil when these people receive the vapid,
or commonplace, or inflated verbiage of some
“ inspirational medium” as not only a guide for their
lives, but as a revelation of celestial truth, or of a
new religion higher than that we have in the teach¬
ings and life of Christ.
Spiritual phenomena demonstrate that the miracu¬
lous history in our Bible is a narrative of historic facts.
They demonstrate that the spirit of man can act on
matter irrespective of a physical organisation, and that
therefore the spirit lives independent of the organic
body. And they show that there exists in man a
spiritual nature, which proves him to be not only an
immortal being, but capable of becoming in spiritual
relationship with God.
Thus spiritual phenomena provide us with a key
to the only true psychology, an experimental know¬
ledge of the nature and powers of the human soul, and
show how the salvation of that soul is the ultimate
psychological fact.
In a recent number of The Spiritualist I have
said: For myself, I believe that the phenomena and
philosophy of Spiritualism are destined to remould
science, philosophy, psychology, and dogmatic
theology from their very foundations, by showing
how a spiritual and intelligent force constitutes the
essence of all things.
The power to move matter by will, and without
the intervention of mechanism, demonstrates the
intelligent spiritual nature of man; while the spiritual
phenomena which occur in the presence of believers
can in five minutes refute the material philosophy of
thousands of years.
Beyond this, the higher philosophy of Spiritualism
reveals the structure of the human soul, and thus
becomes the only scientific psychology.
The mere knowledge of the facts of Spiritualism
cannot save the soul; but true Spiritualism can
show how the soul is saved as a psychological and
scientific fact.
When Spiritualists proceed further to speak of
Spiritualism as a new religion, they utter that which
to me has no meaning. The essence of all religion
is one and identical. It is the cry of the soul after
its hidden centre and its Lord—as the child cries for
its mother, or “as the hart panteth after the water-
brooks.”
There may be those who in Spiritualism find a
new sect, or a new superstition; but to discover a
new religion would be as impossible as to find a new
God.
Spiritualism, as it demonstrates man to be a spirit,
at the same time demonstrates the fact of a spiritual
life hereafter. But the immense majority of human
beings require no such demonstration, as ninety-nine
in a hundred instinctively believe, and are assured
that there is a future life.
Swedenborg and Spiritualism certainly show good
reasons for believing that our future life will be
the counterpart of this life, and that we shall
occupy a position there in exact relation to our works
here.
But Christianity also teaches the same when it says,
“ Shall not the Lord render to every man according
to his works ? ” and “ One star differeth from another
star in glory,” and “ To whom much is given, of him
shall much be required,” and “ He who knew not
shall be beaten with few stripes.”
Moreover, modern Spiritualism cannot be anew
religion, inasmuch as the whole Bible is full of Spirit¬
ualism, and the Roman Church has never ceased to
exemplify this in the lives of her saints.
Protestantism has laughed to scorn these spiritual
claims of the Romish Church, but modern Spirit¬
ualism proves that these claims are founded on facts.
The Romish St. Teresa was a saint and prophetess,
but so also was the Lutheran Seeress of Prevost.
The spiritual teachings of both are identical, and
their lives were equally pure and given to God, but
St. Teresa worshipped more the Supreme, while the
seeress gave herself chiefly to spiritual philosophy and
to the benefaction of the afflicted.
The simple doctrine of the love of God and the
love of man taught by Christ as the sum and substance
of all religion and morality cannot be surpassed, and
can be understood by all; but the hidden and esoteric
doctrine of Christ can be understood by those only who
hold the mystical key, and in this respect the Romish
Church is wiser than Protestantism. I admit this;
but let no one suppose from this admission that a
true Spiritualist, to whom had been revealed the
secret of the Logos, could ever find it necessary to
enter that Church, or that he could regard, except
Nov. 28, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
263
■with horror, his subjugation to a priesthood which,
asserting that it holds the keys of the kingdom of
heaven, too often, alas ! has used those keys only to
shut the door, neither going in itself, “ nor suffering
them who are entering to go in.”
The true Spiritualist requires no such priesthood;
but for him it is sufficient, when he discovers that all
his past life he has been “ feeding on the husks which
the swine do eat,” to say, “ I will arise and go to my
Father,” for he then experiences “the glorious liberty
of the children of God.” Even the Popish St.
Teresa, when in her highest ecstasies she became
united to Christ and thus found that she was one
with God actually, shows the utter impertinence of
all priestly interference; and she could thus, in the
magnificent language of St. Paul, say, “Neither
death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor
powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor
height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be
able to separate us from the love of God, which is in
Christ Jesus our Lord.”
That spiritual phenomena are real I know as cer¬
tainly as I know that I exist. In this treatise I
therefore assume their reality.
Should the sceptic say that I should demonstrate
the facts before I construct my theory, I reply that
no amount of written or oral evidence can convince
the obstinate sceptic, that is, one whose organisation
renders spiritual vision impossible; but this I can
promise him, that no man of average common sense,
common instincts, and common honesty could
radically or thoroughly investigate the subject by
reading, by conversations with those who know, and
by persistent experimental investigation in spite of
many disappointments, and fail at last to know as I do
that spiritual phenomena as are real as his own life.*
The laborious student of this most deeply interest¬
ing but intricate and occult subject, will discover that
there is a form of Spiritualism which, while dealing
with a low class of spirits for foolish or wicked pur¬
poses, is the forbidden necromany; another form of
Spiritualism which is soul force, that is magic, and
which may be used for good purposes, or may be per¬
verted into dangerous and demoniacal power; but that
there is also a true Spiritualism, which is the voice
of God illuminating the centre of the soul, and which
is altogether holy and divine.
AULD HAWKIE’Sf ADDRESS.
To a Wee Raggit Laddie.
BY ALEXANDEK MACLACHLAK.
[From the “ Toronto (Canada) National.”]
Pair destitute, deserted ■wean,
Cast on the world thy leefu lane,
To fecht wi’ poverty and pain.
And nane to guide thee.
No ane to lead thy steps aricht,
Or back thee in the weary ficht,
What’s to betide thee ?
We boast aboot our Christian land.
And of the wealth at our command,
And yet there’s ne’er a helping hand
Stretch’d out to thee.
And a’ thae crowds o’ thrifty folk,
They pass thee like a dirty brock,
They hate to see.  
* In the library of the Spiritual Association, 38, Great Russell-street, the
inquirer will find the records of thousands of spiritual facts contained in
several hundred volumes.
t The celebrated Glasgow street orator.
They tell thee thou’rt a perfect fricht,
That “ Bang the Brats” should targe thee ticht,
To keep on Sabbath out o’ sicht,
Don’t come abroad,
Por thrifty folk, in holy mood,
Hate to hae thouchts o’ thee intrude
’Tween them and God.
They never mourn thy hapless fate,
But fricht thee wi’ the pains that wait
To rack thee in a future state.
Mid flames and soot.
Nae wonder, laddie, thou’rt downcast,
Por hunger’d here and damn’d at last,
That’s thy lookoot.
Nae wonder thy wee heid is stor’d
Wi’ thouchts that ought to be abhorr’d.
Things to be worship’d and ador’d
Ye ne’er heard tell o’.
E’en God Himself they’ve cloth’d in wrath,
Sweeping wee wretches frae His path,
Like thee, puir fellow!
My wee, neglected, hapless creature.
Starvation’s writ on ev’ry feature!
What thou canst think o’ God and Nature
Beats me to ken;
This earth must seem to thee a hell.
Where many heartless devils dwell
In shape o’ men.
Prae ither bairns thou’rt kept apart,
Nae words o’ kindness ever start
The deep emotions o’ thy heart,
My puir, wee bairn,
liais’d among dirt and degradation,
Vile slang and horrid imprecation
Is a’ ye learn.
How desolate thy heart must be !
Nae mother taks thee on her knee
To sing beloved sangs to thee,
Baith aer and late,
But drunken divors tease and trick thee,
And cursin’ carters cuff and kick thee
Oot o’ their gate.
Ye canna spend the simmer days
In rambles mang the broomy braes,
Or flow’ry haunts by lonely ways
Where burmes rin.
But in dark cellars ye maun brattle,
Mang filthy swarms o’ human cattle—
Vile dens o’ sin.
And is there nane to sooth thy woe ?
Alas ! thou’rt forc’d to answer no.
These churches are got up for show,
A’ mere profession.
Oh, it’s enough to make us slam
The hale thing as a heartless sham—
Baith kirk and session!
And do we just gang to the kirk
To pray for Heathen, Jew, and Turk,
That a’ our duties we may shirk
To such as thee ?
I scarce daur look thee in the face,
Por it’s a shame and a disgrace
Thy plight to see.
Oh, Lord, what time and siller’s spent,
On savages we never kent,
On coaxing heathens to repent!
Ah, thou’rt a sample
Which should be sent to let them see
What our religion’s done for thee.
Thou great example!
It's no in singing nor in saying,
It’s no in preaching nor in praying,
But it’s in ivorking out and daeing,
A’ these in deeds
O’ love and mercy to ilk ither,
Por helping o’ a helpless brither,
That crowns a1 creeds l
264
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 28, 1879.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
. OB .
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the ate "vVm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor oj Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke ot Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.’
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER IIISympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V: —Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—^Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied!
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII.—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—^Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
orMesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &e..
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—^Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—•
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—•
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—-Extasis —Cases —Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—^Apparitions—^Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritmlist Newspaper Branch Office 83, British Museum«street London
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Scien/::, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modem Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena;—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the mahifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages, than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Nov. 28, 1870.
Qloth, small 8vo, price 8s.
OTHEE-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr." White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting •punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
RE-ENGAGEMENT DESIRED by a
German Governess (dipldmie). French Music
and all branches of an advanced English education;
£80.—Address Fraulein Mbller, at Dr. Galloway, 17,
Spring-terrace, North Shields.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for Ijd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MESSEN¬
GER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Containing
Predictions of the Events and the Weather that are
likely to occur during 1880, with a large Hieroglyphic.
“Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
the sad colonial calamities, and all the principal events
of the current year, even to the present Afghan War!
Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post Free, 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
British national associa
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Groat Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m, to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m, to
6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 Ip's, per week, if two Occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Cossoniere, Paris.
rTVHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, Ac., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Now Ready,
ZADKIEL’S ALMANAC for 1880,
Price Sixpence.
Containing:—Voice of the Stars—Weather Predic¬
tions—A Hieroglyphic, &c.—Zadkiel foretold the Zulu
War and the very day of Isandlana, also the Afghan
War, the severe winter and colid spring.
London : Cousins and Co., 3, York-street, Covent
Garden.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant jworks ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VIL—An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Oloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
Wnite, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —ToYou who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon."
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVI[.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Gjiveri through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXEX.—A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent!
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. O, Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C
iii
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The’ Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spit its—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
ChapterIV.—^Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances?—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes —Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
C. Ball—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. O. F. .Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr
J. O. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—^Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss —Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS PROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
PART I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song o
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Gleuare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. "Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVTTT.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live ”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX,
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.O.
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Socieie Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
iv
Accidental Indigestion.
BEFOEE AND AFTEE THE
Christmas Padding,
USE
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the best Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FEUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. De. Htjest, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to Relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
Stimulants and insufficient
AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“Allour customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
'l he Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S EMIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
FRUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
Fagged, weary, and worn
OUT!!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“14, Ruedela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which he did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer¬
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health ; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
Success in life.”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marlced " ENO’S FEUIT SALT.'1 Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
at ENO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS,
Hatcbam, London, S.E.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
SPIRITUALISM.
STARTLING ANNOUNCEMENT.
LANGHAM HALL,
Great Portland Street, London.
A Grand Classical CONCERT will be given under
the Management of Herr L. Samson, assisted by
eminent artistes. Programmes at the Hall.
A Lecture on “ Spiritualism, what is it ?" by Mr. W.
Chapman.
Mr. A. H. Furman will sit for Spirit Form Manifes¬
tations. '
Messrs. Furman and Chapman do not guarantee
results, and they wish it to be distinctly understood
that the prices charged are for the Concert and
Lecture, after which Mr. Furman will sit for the
SPIRIT FORMS.—The audience are at liberty to form
their own couclusions.
Prices, 10s. 6d., 5s.. and 2s. 6d.—Tickets to be ob¬
tained at the Hall. Doors open at 7.30, commence at
8. Carriages at 10. Musical Director, Herr L. Sam¬
son. Manager, Mr. W. Chapman.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
• ther standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—If. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—16. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbelrbewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes.”
—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. — 29. The July Bug. — 30. The Converted
Carman.  —
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.  
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mens. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
The trapped medium;
OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d.;
post free, 6$d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Bough ton, St.
George’s-road.
November, 1879.] [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
Lectures by Dr. Peebles—A Psychological Study of
Shelley: J.T. Markley—The Spiritual Manifestations
of Two Hundred Years Ago: T. L. Nichols—Joseph
Barker's Testimony—A Letter of Mrs. L. M. Child—
A Ghost Story: Mary S. G. Nichols—What is Spirit¬
ualism? F. C. Cook, Chicago—Popular Errors and
Objections to Spiritualism Explained and Answered—
Notes and Gleanings; Hebrew Ideas of God; Papers
for the Times; Moral Objections to Spiritualism;
O’er the Silent River; Whittier’s Attitude to Spirit¬
ualism; Almost an Exposure; The Spirit Life; Fort¬
nightly Discussion Meetings. Spiritual Lyrics : Ecce
Homo Ecce Deus.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW Hay Nisbet & Co., 52, Ropework-lane
Nov. 28, 1879.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The "Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . 7 6
The Teacher, II.' „ ' . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ . . 7 6
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, . .76
The Thinker. „ V. , ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People 7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life ... .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of SpiritualTntercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . .30
Morning Lectures  7 6
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY'S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOB TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager
Southampton- uildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Price 5s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
CONTENTS.
Sudden Death of Mr. Serjeant Cox   253
Correspondence:—Dr. Monck  255
To Correspondents   255
Spiritual Phenomena in Nova Scotia:—Grasping
a Real Apparition—Deposition of Mr, Elias
Dimock—Deposition of Mr. O. Edgar de Wolfe
—Deposition of Mr. William Sharp  255
Cabinet Manifestations  258
Spiritual Dynamics. By George Wyld M.D.,
Edinburgh  253
Paragraphs:—St. Martin’s Summer, 255; Mystery 258
Poetry:—Auld Hawkie’s Address. By Alexander
Maclachlan      263
Printed for the Proprietor by Beverid&e and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fuliwood's Rents,
High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London
E.C
