Rbgistbbbd is i? Nbwspapbb.
SK® joUS^jsfS^ ^^Ydao^o^idai<
Wgt ®Ib*8t r0WJCf^ toilj ^^mtnalism m feat Sntam.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boulevard deS
Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi.Via Della Maltonaia. ROME:
Signor Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE : 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly and Co. NEW YORK:
51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “ Banner of Light ” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. SAN FRAN¬
CISCO : 319, Keamey-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON : No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 355.—(Vol. XIV.—No. 24.) LONDON : FRIDAY, JUNE 13, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Philosophy of certain Phenomena connected with
Writing Mediuxnship  277
Spontaneous Psychological Phenomena. By Eliza Boucher 277
Philosophical German Spiritualists    .. 278
The Philosophy of Death. By Professor William Denton 279
Mediumship    ,. .. .. 281
The Kentish Prophet Elijah   .. 281
William Lloyd Garrison. By E. Louisa Thompson Nos-
worthy    282
Is Spiritualism a Science or a Religion ? By P. Clavairoz
(Leon Favre)  .. .. .. .. 283
Letter from the Victorian Association of Spiritualists to
Henry Slade 284
Religious Mania     .. .. .. .. .. 285
Inspiration versus Constitutions  286
Spiritualism at Cambridge University 286
Spiritual Phenomena in Nova Scotia  .. .. 286
Correspondence—A Floral Display, 287; Roman Catholics,
287 j What is a Spiritualist ..      .. 287
Lively Students  ..  287
British Museum Lectures 288
Answers to Correspondents   288
Paragraphs—Marriage, 278; Abnormal Calculating Powers,
281; Death of Dr. Horace Binney Hare, 281; Captain
James on Mesmerism, 283; Suspended Animation,
284 j The Value of Verified Psychical Phenomena, 285;
The Core of Dr. Slade .. ..  287
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER :
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United'Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated
Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries throughout
the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the
Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading
and more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in
the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among
those who have published their names in connection with their
communications in its columns are Mr. C. F.Varley, C.E., F.R.S.;
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “ Quarterly Journal
of Science "(who admits the reality of the phenomena, but has,
up to tbe present time, expressed no decided opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace. President of the Biological Sec¬
tion of the British Association for the Advancement of Science
(1876); Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden) ; the
Right Hon. the Countess of Caithness ; His Imperial Highness
Nicholas of Russia (Duke of Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkin¬
son, F.G.S. ; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen
(formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples); Baron
Dirckinok-Holmfeld (Holstein): Mr. Gerald Massey; Le Comte
de Bullet; the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly American
Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Parkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Seijeant Cox, President of the Psycholo¬
gical Society of Great Britain ; Mr. Alexander Calder, Presi¬
dent of the British National Association of Spiritualists; the
Rev. J. Tyerman (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.);
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George
Wyld; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksa-
kof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order
of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay
(Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barri&ter-at-Law; Mr. C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital ; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore ; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B,
(India); Mrs. Honey wood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr.
Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George Stock, B.A. (Oxon);
Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian
Reimers; Mr. William White (author of the “ Life of Sweden¬
borg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S-A.;
Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S. ; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Liw; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M. ; Mr. C. Con¬
stant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley:
Miss Ki-lingbury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers ;
Mr. J. N, T. Mathese; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr.
W. Lindsay Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other
ladies and gentlemen.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's-churchyard, EC.
Paris : Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2,. Lindenstrasse. Florence : Signor G. Parisi,
Via Della Maltonia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Re ’.ding Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege : 37, Rue Florimont.
Bnda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russel-street. Shanghai : Messrs. Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal
Office. Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 819,
Keamey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington ; No. 1010, Seventh-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
OFFICE HOURS.
The Offices of the Association are open between the hours
of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except Sat¬
urday, when they are open between the hours of 2 p.m. and
6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR JUNE.
Monday, \Sfh.—Foktnightx.t Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Last of the Season. Paper, “ Review of the
Session.” By the Rev. W. Stainton Moses
M.A.
Friday, 20th.—Library Committee st 6 p.m.
C. A. BURKE, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akebkan Road, Bbixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books
on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF IN¬
QUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM
Quebec Hall, 25, Great Quebec Street,
Marylebone Road, London, close to Baker Street Station.
A FLORAL DISPLAY AND SALE OF USEFUL AND
FANCY ARTICLES
Will be held, D. V., in the above Ha’.l,
On Wednesday and Thursday, June l%th and ISth,
Under the kind patronage and assistance of Mrs. Fitz¬
Gerald, Mrs, Schweizer, Mrs. A. Maltby, Miss Dickson, Mrs.
Hallock, Mrs. Carshore, Mrs. Slater, Mrs. Fletcher, and other
ladies.
The object being to clear off a small standing debt, also
to assist the members in improving the accommodation of
the Hall, and in spreading a knowledge of Truth.
Gifts of any form, in money or articles, will be gladly re¬
ceived by any of the Ladies, or J. M. Dale, 60, Crawford Street,
Bryanstone Square, W., who will also furnish any further
information desired.
Open each day from 12 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission six¬
pence.
THE ALPHA;
Or, the First Principle op the Human Mind ;
A Revelation, but no Mystery. With Spiritual Advent and
Steel Portrait of the Author, E. N. Dennys. 370 pages,
price 3s. 6d.
“ We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellows.”—
Athenceum.
It contains moie truth, poetry, philosophy, and logic
than any work we have ever read; it is a new revelation,
and one of the most remarkable productions ever given to
the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, with engraving of the Author, 470 pages,
price 3s. 6d.,
THE RELIGION OF LIFE,
AS EXEMPLIFIED BT JESUS CHRIST.
A series of Lectures by the Author of “ Alpha.”
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
T>IRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
-D 29 and 30, Southampton.buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 till 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent,
that move and direct the material mechanism of man. Com¬
munications as to alleged phenomena are invited by the
Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings with¬
out subscribing to or recognising any particular theory or
belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubneb & Co. London.
Cloth, small 8vo., price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use in the
divine economy for all varieties of men and women; and
that there is not any one, however perverse or insignific&nt,
who is not created for some function in universal humanity.
As to the question of everlasting punishment, Mr. White
maintains an original position. If asked whether he believes
in the everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers. Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he answers.
No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish which exist
as to the future life arise from the constant assumption that
the everlasting punishment of sin is identical with the ever¬
lasting existence of sinners. Sin or transgression has been,
is, and ever will be eternally punished; torment and misery
are everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing; and pre¬
cisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner nr
later, cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility of
everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictA ns
of events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a
large hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Eplu meris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lanca¬
shire quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the
British armaments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. L, by
which any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth
gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Annali DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filatate.
Published on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly
Journal devoted to the investigation of the unexplained
phenomena of psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof,
and contributed to by several German and foreign men of
science. Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutzk.
London : The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the
city, by an English brother. Tbe apartments can only ac-
commoda'e four persons. Terms, board and ad' included, jL'3
per week each; or, for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two
occupy one room. Address, S.T., care of M. A. Mallett, 3,
Rue de la Cossonerie, Pans.
A SELECT CIRCLE, holding Seances for
x\- physical manifestations once a week, requires a few
more members—especially ladies. For particulars, apply to
R. S. T., care of Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell-street, VV.C.
PRIVATE EDUCATION IN GERMANY.—
I One or two pupils can find a comfoi table home and
careful instruction in English, foreign languages, mathe¬
matics &c., under the care of a Private Tutor in Wiesbaden.
Address—Mr. G. Wiese, A.K.O., 2, Kapellen Str., Wies¬
baden, Germany,
11
Me aplUiMALiST.
June 13, 1879.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
"President.
Alex. Calder, Esq.. 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington,
S.W.
"Vice-Presidents.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.,-19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.'W.
Honywood, Mrs., 53, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister at-Law, Goldsmith-
buildings, E.C.
"Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13,
Alexandra-road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld. Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland place, Hyde-park,
W.
Council.
A dshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, IS e\vcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, vfrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T.. The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Rium y, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S.. Vale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road,
Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 6, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. O., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road, New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square,
W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lampart-hall, Northampton.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower street, W.O.
March, R. A., Heaton Villas, 71, Greenwood road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond road, Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree terrace, Uttoxeter road.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nos worthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish road, Blundel Sands, near
Liverpool.
Pearce, Richard, Lanarth House, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.
Pearson, 0., 16, Harpur street, Bloomsbury. W.C.
Pickersgill, W.C., 3, Blandford square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 47, Momington road. Regent’s park.
Stock, St. George, M. A., 8, Museum Villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolf crescent, Maida vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Ann street, Cavendish
square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1,
Hereford square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Ome square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, MissH., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford square. South Kensington,
S.W.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobold, Esq.
Secretary.
Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St-
Petersburgh, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjA,
Capoussou, Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at
Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina "Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach,
Si.yria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Gueldenstubb, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexander Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Piospect, 6, St. Petersburgh.
The Baron von Dirchmck-Holmieid, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey,
U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Treeorerie, Wimille, Bou1ogne-sur-
Mer.
Boboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Brir.ten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude, Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton,
Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg
University, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D.. care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Rnssell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W.H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, South Melbourne,
Victoria, Austre ia.
M. Leymarie, 6, Reu Neuve, des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy,
1, Peris,
Epes Sergent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New
York, U.S.A,
M. LeonFavre, Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur" les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Phila¬
delphia, U.S A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2,210, Mount Vernon-street,Philadelphia,
U.S A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de
1’Europe, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memph’s, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck,
Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue de Palais, 137, Schaerbeck, Lex-
Bruxellrs.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z..Te.-.t, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cavuga Co., New York,
U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel del’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-
square, London, N.W.
Captain B. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste,
Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon,
Isaac B. Rich Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W-. S.- Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevaru, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eporjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Et-q., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaje,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr, J. H., Strati!, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near
Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Berks T. Huchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavillion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H, J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York.
T. Blyton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fitz,
121, Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Traces,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Bnxton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M.
Anton Prochaszka, Josefstaadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse,
23, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquiries into Spiritualism. Hon.
Secretary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-
lane, Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.—Mr. A. J. Smart, 22,
Moira-place—Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola Cerventes, 34, 28, Madrid.
President—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad Espirita Central de la Republica Maxicana. Presi¬
dent—Senor Refugio T Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo,
Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Columbia, South America.
President—Senor Manuel Jose Amgarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY.
LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading room and library, with a secre¬
tary in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries.
Seances can be attended by recommendation from a member.
For terms, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of Truth
—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—V. Love
and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII. The Burial of
Webster—VIII. ThePartingof Sigutd and Gurda —IX. The
Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope for
the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The Eagle of
Freedon—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI. Little Johnny—XVII.
“ Birdie's Spirit Song”—XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX
“ I still Live”—XX. Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”
—XXIII. Words o’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
prophecy of V ala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle
or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The
Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price
6s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C., Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
bewspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Uussell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id. j Post free for 1 Jd. j or six copies post free for
6d.
"[BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
JLa tained in Brighten of Messrs. Beal, East-street j Mr.
' Elmer, St. James' sticctjandMr. Boughton, St.George’s rd.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 till 6 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses in
London or the provinces. Address, 92, Caroline St., Notting¬
ham.
RS. WOODFORDE, Developing and
Healing Medium. Any form of Mediumship deve-
1 oped. Ladies and children healed by Mesmerism. Terms
according to circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from
1 p m. to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Frank¬
lin, gives seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Bruns wick-
square, from 2 to 5, every day except Sunday, and every
evening from 8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engage¬
ments can be made by letter sent to the above address.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Handwriting, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W,
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients, and may be consulted daily
from 2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
AMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Asbton-under-Lyne.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIRVOYANTS and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair; sex and age re¬
quired. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism, Specialities.
At home from 12 till 6 p.m. Patients treated at their homes
when desired. 99, Park-street, Grosvenor-square,London, W.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM¬
PARED WITH MODERN 8PITITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and nnscriptural. It
shows (we think successfully) that every form of medium-
ship, now so familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical
records of identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parte 1 and 2, 6d. each. The
two bound in one, IS.—These books, ’consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrow¬
ing parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
rpHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the oldest
I journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac
B. Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor; aided by
a large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instruotive reading, embracing a literary department
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—npon spiritual,
philosophical, and scientifio subjects; editorial department;
spirit message department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c. &c. Terms of subscription, in ad¬
vance, 16s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
FOLKESTONE.—Comfortable Lodgings on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualist) can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
A LADY, lately relumed from abroad, desires
a RE-ENGAGEMENT as RESIDENT GOVERNESS.
Address—N. D., 12, North-parade, Horsham.
No. 355,—V03L.UJVIE FOURTEEN ; NujWBER TWEjMTY-FOUI\.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 13th, 1879.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF CERTAIN PHENOMENA CONNECTED j
WITH WRITING MEDIUMSHIP. ' . |
Just now there is considerable excitement in America j{
about a book brought out by Mr. Henry Kiddle, the Superin- j|
tendent of Schools at New York. The work consists of spirit- !(
messages given through the mediumship of two of his children, i)
purporting to come from Shakespeare and other great men, j)
but said by some American Spiritualists to be poor stuff, n
Mr. Kiddle publishes his full belief in the personal identity j \
of the alleged authors. The probability is that a spirit by j (
mesmeric influence tried to externalise through the medium j /
the idea of the communicant being a poet, and the cerebral |)
organism of the medium translated this idea into the name |)
“ Shakespeare,” without intentional deception on the part of i (
spirit or mortal. And the spirit, in reading the mind of the l)
sensitive, perhaps by a reversal of the process saw the idea of ] (
“a great poet,” and not the actual name “Shakespeare ” i)
then in the thoughts of the medium, for proper names are j(
arbitrary sounds, having no idealistic meaning in themselves, j (
Through some writing mediums evidence of spirit identity !>
cannot be obtained, and the communications through such U
sensitives usually cease when they are made to read a book, j >
showing that their brains have something to do with the i (
transmission of the messages. Those writing mediums we I)
have known through whom the spirits can give evidence of j (
identity, can go on reading a book on one subject, while their | >
hands, driven by an unseen power, are writing on another. I (
The New York newspapers made a great uproar over Mr. |)
Kiddle’s book, and said that he was no longer fit for his post; k
moreover, Spiritualists were annoyed at his belief in the |>
Hterary decadence of the alleged spirits of great men. In the j(
middle of this contention Mr. Kiddle resigned his office, and i>
the New York Board of Education unanimously passed the (
following resolution :— j)
“ That, in accepting the resignation of Mr. Kiddle, the Board desires to j)
place on record an expression of its sincere regret at the termination of his i)
long, faithful, and valuable services in connection with the public schools of j(
the city of New York. His sound sense and discretion, his power of clear K
and accurate statement, his learning in his profession, his capacity for detail, i)
united to large administrative ability, his enthusiasm for sound instruction, j)
strict discipline, and all moral, liberal, and wholesome influences in the ;(
school life of teachers and pupils. Ids patience, indnstry, and devotion, are j (
qualities not often found united in one person, but have been illustrated for j j
many years in his daily official life.” I)
The New York World thus sums up the position, which is j)
an unfortunately hard one for a superior man like Mr. \l
Kiddle, but largely originates in his error in judgment in jj
not criticising trashy communications upon their own j(
merits:— j)
“Wedo not wonder that such a veteran Spiritualist as Mr. Andrew j)
Jackson Davis regards the performances of Mr. Kiddle, from the strictly k
Spiritualistic point of view, with ill-disguised indignation. Although, as \(
we have repeatedly pointed out, the truth or falsehood of the doctrines of j j
Spiritualism need not be and ought not to be discussed in connection with |)
the fitness or unfitness of Mr. Kiddle to superintend public education in j /
New York, it is useless to expect that plain people will dissociate the non- j(
sense and twaddle of Mr. Kiddle’s book from the doctrines of which he has ;(
suddenly constituted himself an oracle and an expounder. And, not content i)
with bringing Spiritualism into contempt by absurd communications, which i)
he accepts and exalts as making up a kind of new gospel, Mr. Kiddle has i (
actually gone out of his way to glorify his ‘ own mediums,’ at the expense i (
of all other mediums. ‘By having these two “excellent mediums,” he n
calmly observes, always accessible and beyond the slightest suspicion of ()
collusion and imposture (to which other and paid mediums are always \l
subject) the editor has possessed far better means of investigating this kind j j
of spirit intercourse than has been permitted to most others.’ We should i /
say it would be in order for Mr. Davis, and for the ‘ paid mediums ’ gener- j (
ally, whom Mr. Kiddle thus cavalierly discredits, to inquire whether Mr. i}
Kiddle has or has not made a gift of his book abont t Spiritualism to the i \
publishers, or whether he intends to dedicate any moneys which he may i)
receive for it to the propagation of his faith exclusively.”
SPONTANEOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
BT ELIZA BOUCHEE.
Among the many cases of psychological phenomena with
which the Hon. Grantley Berkeley’s works abound, I extract
the foHowing, which I think in tragic interest has few com¬
peers. It seems a great loss to the science of psychology that
this case especially should not be authenticated by names and
dates, which of course would render it far more valuable. I
cannot help feeling that were the inhabitants of haunted
houses and the witnesses of apparitions only aware of the
absolute wrong they do to the world by suppressing facts of
this nature-—which, thoroughly well authenticated, would go
farther to pull down the strongholds of materialism than
whole volumes of theological argument—the good and true
among them would at once overcome their selfish repugnance
to publicity, and by doing so hasten the time for which every
earnest thinker must heartily long, when the momentous
question, “ If a man die shall he live again ?” will be set at
rest and for ever, and the human race be consequently led to
feel the importance of preserving that purity of body and mind
which is the only true preparation for those realms of moral
beauty and happiness to which the enlightened soul of man
must ever aspire.
THE PEBSISTENT APPAKITION OP A DUELLIST.
After a few preliminary remarks the writer of the book
says:—“ The tale was narrated to me by a most excellent
friend of mine, who knew all and still knows many of those
concerned in this strange transaction. ‘ Mr. D * was a
gentleman of an old family and the owner of considerable
property in the beautiful county of Devon, and very much
addicted to field sports. While on a visit at a friend’s house
he met a young lady, considerably his junior, clever, pretty,
and attractive, and in good time bore off his youthful bride to
his ancestral home. Mr. D  was not only devoted to
horse and hound, but he extended the most liberal hospitality
to all his brother sportsmen, and whenever the fixture of
hounds was nearer to him than to the houses of his friends, it
was his custom to ask them to dine and sleep, to be ready for
‘ the meet ’ on the following morning. At times he would
ask his friends from the hunting-field of that day to send
word home by their hacks for their things to dress, and return
with him when the chase was over. Thus, on hunting days,
his wife never knew how many there would be to dinner, nor
how many beds would be required; so she took a graceful
care in ordering rooms and roasts sufficient for all comers, so
that she could never be taken by surprise, let her open-hearted
and open-handed husband bring home whomsoever he could.
It is possible, I grieve to say, that this sort of uncertainty
would have been disagreeable to some mistresses, but not so
in this instance. Mrs. D  was always glad to see her
husband’s friends, come when they would, so all went com¬
fortably and happily. Of course, on very many occasions
when the gentlemen came in late from hunting, Mrs. D 
was dressing, so that occasionally she did not know how many
guests had arrived till she came into the drawing-room im¬
mediately preceding the announcement of dinner, and found
them thus assembled. It is my wish particularly to impress
this state of affairs upon my readers, because it accounts in
an extraordinary degree for what I am about to relate. One
day, when her husband had gone to a very distant meet
knowing that he could not be home until late unless the fox
had run in the direction of their woods, Mrs. D took a
long round of visits to some poor people in the village who
were ill, and on coming near home, just as it was getting
dark, she heard the half-hour dinner bell for dressing, and
knew by that that Mr. D had returned; so, fearing to
be late, and making all the speed she could, she ran through
the hall and upstairs, throwing off her shawl and unfastening
278
THE SEIRlTtrALISt
June 13, 187§.
her bonnet as she ran along. When half-way up the stairs, j)
and in advance of her, she saw a man, who, as she came n
nearer to him, moved aside to let her pass. On she went, j )
aware that he was a stranger to her whom she had never seen j >
before; and she subsequently remembered that she had uttered | (
to herself, ere she reached her own door, ‘Who can that man |)
be, so oddly dressed, and whose face is so remarkably pale?* ij
settling it in her own mind that he must be one of the guests n
brought home by her husband. She also remembered thinking j (
to herself as she dressed, ‘How strange that pallid man’s |)
attire! He belongs, perhaps, to some hunt I have never seen.* j <
Dressed and arrived in the drawing-room, there she found j >
her husband and three guests, all of whom she knew, and j(
then the butler entered and announced dinner to be on the i)
tal}!e, leaving the door to the hospitable board open. She K
had seep the three guests, but she expected to see a fourth; so j)
she still lingered in the drawing-room under a desire not to ] \
sit down without him, till she was surprised by her husband j /
saying to her, ‘ What are you waiting for ? We are all here* |(
Qn this, and marvelling much as to who the man could be !)
whom she had met on the stairs, she took the arm proffered | j
to lead her in, and they sat down to dinner. So convinced j /
was Mrs. D , however, that she had met a guest on the stairs j \
that she counted the chairs placed at the table as they sat i)
down, and though there was no vacant chair she could not j (
disabuse herself of the idea that her husband had forgotten j)
somebody. Every time the door opened she looked in expecta- i (
tion of the entry of a belated guest, and during dinner she i)
was absent in manner and distant, and not in her usual power j |
of conversation. When ‘ curtain lecture ’ time came, and she j)
was alone with her husband, then she was eloquent on the j >
apparition, and she said, ‘What I saw on the stairs was not <
a servant—of that I am certain; it was a gentleman, and very |)
strangely dressed. Who could he be ?’ To this direct ques- !|
tion* and reft of his usual calm and affectionate manner, her j j
husband replied rather sharply, or as if annoyed, ‘ Oh! | \
ponsense. If you saw a man at all he must have been the j)
servant of one of our visitors, but no doubt it was a delusion; j j
so, fop the future, don’t be so fanciful.’ Having said this, j>
Mr. D at once, and with evident haste, changed the |(
subject of conversation ; but his manner and method of doing |)
so lather increased her curiosity, while at the same time she I (
felt certain that she had not in any way been mistaken. Some i)
weeks after the strange occurrence thus related, Mr. and Mrs. j (
D went on a visit to a neighbouring mansion in the same j)
county, and when the gentlemen came from the dinner-table i j
in the first evening to the drawing-room, watching her oppor- j)
tunity to gain his ear alone, Mrs. D said, ‘ You remember j\
my telling you of a mysterious man I met on our staircase some j)
weeks ago? I have seen him here to-night.* (Her husband
started.) She continued, ‘ His picture, I mean ; it hung on the j J
dining-room wall, opposite to me as I sat at the table, the j(
same white face and strange attire. I should know that face i)
among a thousand.’ To her astonishment her husband | (
seemed strangely disturbed at this intelligence, but after a
moment’s thought he said, ‘ Do not speak of this to any one, j i
the subject to me is most painful ; but to-night, when we H
retire, you must hear the truth.* Retirement and truth that !
night, as they often do in phases of the world’s history,
came together ; for her husband, after requesting her to dis- j(
npiss her maid for the night, came into her room greatly l|
excited, and depressed in mind and manner, and at once told ! >
her that, ‘as sue had become in a manner possessed of the jc
secret, she had better now hear the whole truth in regard, to !•)
the apparition she had seen, for the truth ere long would be jlc
sadly and terribly made plain. A hundred years ago,’ he ;;
continued, * the man you saw—or thought you saw—on the ] (
stairs was killed by one of my ancestors in a duel. The | j
facts which led to the combat were most painful. It was his | \
picture that was opposite to your seat at the dining-table, j)
When any great calamity is about to happen to any of my l(
family, the appearance of that man foretells it, by his pre- i)
sence either in the hall or on the stairs, precisely about the | j
spot where you met him.’ The joyous-hearted sportsman and j)
the jovial and hospitable host the next day was in his usual K
spirits, or, if a shade of gloom was seen for a moment to j)
darken his brow, the sight of the twinkling sterns of the |(
dappled pack, and their rattling melody on a flying fox, chased j /
each mist away, and sent him as a leader among the fastest
and the gayest of the gay. I wish that the story could close
here ; but the sequel must be told, as it is a fact that can be
attested, and which bears the moral. A few weeks after that
semblance or apparition was seen by his wife on the stairs
her husband lay dead, killed by an accidental fall while hunt¬
ing. Then, and not till then, was all the truth disclosed. He
had not told her the entire truth, for, in deference to her
feelings, he had disguised the fact that the ghost came alone
to warn the head of the family that he was about to die ; and
though the apparition might be seen by relatives or even by
other people unconnected by blood, still the portentous
messenger from the grave had but one fatal mission, and
that was to the mortal in possession.”—From Anecdotes of
the Upper Ten Thousand, by the Hon. Grantley F. Berkeley.
(Bentley, London, 1867.)
Albion Villa, Fremantle-square, Bristol.
PHILOSOPHICAL GERMAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Professor Zollner, whose name has become inseparably
connected with Spiritualism in Germany, and who, by his
bold avowal, has called the attention of the world to himself
and the cause, was born in 1834, and consequently has just
attained his full intellectual strength. He is professor of
physics and astronomy in one of the leading universities of
Germany, and has taken a place in the front ranks of the
scientists of Europe. He has published many works, among
which are Sketches of a Universal Photometry of the Starry
Heavens, Physical Nature of the Heavenly Bodies, The Nature
of Comets, and, lastly, his experiences with Dr. Slade. He
stated in Psychische Studien, published at Leipzig, the names
of the other three gentlemen who were present at twelve
stances held with Dr. Slade. These names ho had previously
withheld, from motives of delicacy, and their mention in this
connection will astonish even more than the conversion of
Zollner himself. They are no less than Fechner, Scheiber,
and Weber, than whom Germany has no greater in their
respective fields of thought. Gustave Theodore Fechner, born
1801, is world-renowned as a natural philosopher, and is at
present professor of physics at Leipzig. Among his great
works are The Soul of Plants, The Zervdavesta, The Things
of the Future, Elements of Psycho-Physics, The Problem of the
Soul, and About the Life Hereafter.
Scheiber is a renowned professor of mathematics in the
same university. William Edward Weber, born 1804, is a
professor of physics and known as the founder, in common
with his brother, of the doctrine of the vibration of forces.
He also made profound researches into the domain of
electricity. He has published an exhaustive work on the
subject of Electro-Dynamic Measurement (four vols., 1846—
1854).
These men, all eminent in physical science, prejudiced
against Spiritualism, trained by a long lifetime of exact and
painstaking observation; whose words are held in profound
respect by all men of science and whose works are standard
authority, have unqualifiedly placed themselves on the side of
Spiritualism. The noble Aksakof, after long years of patient
casting bread on the waters, in the very hour when hope
faltered, has seen its return, and will not wait long for the
grandest harvest ever bestowed.
The German mind is essentially spiritual. It loves its
mystics far more than its realists. It accepts the stolidity of
scepticism for a time, but gladly turns to the more congenial
fields of idealism and Spiritualism. The reaction has come,
and a new race of philosophers will meet the demand, who
will not make a God of the “ Unknowable.”— Spiritual
Scientist.
Marriage.—The London Figaro of last Wednesday says:—“On
Thursday of last week, Florence Marryat, a daughter of Captain Marryat,
and herself a novelist of repute, was united in marriage with Lieut.-Colonel
Francis Lean, late of the Royal Marine Light Infantry. Many literary and
private friends were present at the ceremony and at the subsequent wed-*
ding breakfast, which was held at the St. James’s Restaurant.”
Last week, at Dorchester, a daughter of Mr. W. Crocker, a farmer of
Berkshire, was charged with attempting suicide. She had jumped into
the sea off Portland, where she had been sent to recruit her health. She
had been in depressed spirits, and it transpired that she fancied she was
under the spell of a certain gipsy, Her brother entered into recognisances
for her future good conduct, upon which she was liberated.
June 13, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
279
THE PHILOSOPHY OF DEATH* j j
' BY PROFESSOR WILLIAM DENTON. j)j
The earth is a grand sepulchre ; the sea but a wide, deep m
grave. Our bodies are but the walking ashes of the departed, j \ I
lent us for a time, to be returned when death gives us notice j) j
by a summons which none can neglect or resist. Old worlds j (j
reach the goal; new worlds start hourly on the track. The j)j
matter composing our planet has belonged to other worlds ]\j
millions of times, and shall doubtless belong to worlds un- j) j
numbered in the coming time. The water we drink has made j i |
the glory of many a sunset, and spanned the sky in rainbow 1(1
arches; the dust beneath our feet has been trodden, as it is j > |
how trodden upon, by uncounted generations in the past; and | j j
every drop of the briny sea has coursed down the cheeks of | (I
the children of sorrow. There is not a particle of this planet j n
that has not belonged to worlds unnumbered before this. And j (|
this is true of humanity. There goes the grand life-proces- j (j
sion over the planet. They march over the globe in constant \)!
succession. The old man, the young maiden, and the little j (|
children just tottering—on they go, and take no backward j)|
step. They march continuously—dropping their bodies as m
they go; bodies that have served the soul’s purpose for a |)!
while, and these bodies are seized by the law of decay and j (j
change, and by the subtle alchemy of death are transformed j) j
into grass and flowers, to feed those who are to follow when j (!
all those who are present have gone. Well done, old body ! |)|
You have served my turn; go back to the earth, to which I |(j
bequeath you—make corn, grapes, apples, pears, for the on- I) j
coming hosts, for the new men and women, better and fairer j(j
than we, when we have gone to fulfil our destiny in another j) j
Condition of being. So goes the grand march. There never j (j
Was a tiine when just that thing did not take place. What j/
is true of the world to-day is true of all past time. You will m
see, then, that death is no curse. You will see that the common \) |
notion that death was imposed as a curse is utterly false. j \ j
Death is no curse—it is perfectly natural; it is a part of the )) j
order of the universe. It is only in the wwnatural world that | SI
things are immortal. In the natural world all things are m
subject to the dominion of death. Death follows us every- j (j
where like a shadow. It is best that it should be so. Were \\\
it otherwise all progress would be impossible. Were it other- j j j
wise we could not take a forward step. j (!
Ho back in the history of this planet, and mark the march j | i
of the globe through the ages. Go back to the Silurian time, j(j
when shells were the highest type of life. Walk along the j)j
shore and see the waves, as they roll in from the extravagant j(i
shelly deep upon the bleak highlands that then dotted the j j j
surface of the planet, when continents were unborn. You ( j
will mark, as the waves roll in, that they bring harvests of j) |
shells and strew them upon the beach, heaping them up like I (i
grass beneath the scythe of the husbandman. They are the j) |
masks of the dead molluscs that lived one hundred millions ||j
of years before us. Death reaped his harvests then as now. m
If there had been no death this would have been a world of ju
clams for ever. It was only by the death of the inferiortypes |)!
that place was made for the superior, and life became possible | j;
on the planet. | )|
Come nearer to the Jurassic period, when reptiles flew Hi
through the air; when reptiles basked on the rocks, reptiles j/j
floated on the surface of the deep, reptiles wandered through | \ |
the depths of the woods, feeding upon the soft-bodied trees— j)|
then it was a world of reptiles. Then reptiles were the hi
masters of the planet. There lies a skeleton of one, the bones |) j
of whose leg weigh six hundred pounds. There the bones j (!
lie, on the flanks of the mountains of Colorado. They tell )i
the story of death. If death had not come this would have j \ |
beep a world of crawling reptiles for ever. You and I could |)l
pot have had an existence. It was necessary to remove those Hi
parly forms that higher forms should take their places. m
Come up to the Tertiary age. You will find the same con- j j|
dition again. The old hosts have gone; the great reptiles j(j
have vanished. The mammals are here—gigantic elephants, j j j
larger than the largest of India, roamed through magnificent j jj
forests, where are now the prairies of the West, breaking Hi
down the branches of the trees, bathing in the lakes, washing j j j
pi the rivers ; the hippopotamus, bathing in the waters ; the j) j
rhinoceros, feeding upon the reeds and soft plants; great j (j
bears, gigantic mastodons, grazing in the natural meadows—
larger than the elephant of the present time. This was the
age of mammals and great beasts. But if death had not come
this earth would have been a huge menagerie for ever ; man
could not have had an existence upon the planet. Death has
removed the lower forms of life and made room for the
higher. This is one of the conditions of progress. A world
that is a world of progress is of necessity a world of death.
Sir John Herschel, in his scientific lectures, says, “ I had
been witnessing the demolition of a structure familiar to me
from childhood, and with which many interesting associations
were connected—a demolition not unattended with danger to
the workmen employed, about whom I had felt very uncom¬
fortable. It happened to me at the approach of evening—
while, however, there was yet pretty good light—to pass near
the place where, the day before, it had stood; the path I had
to follow leading beside it. Great was my amazement to see
it still standing, projected against the dull sky. Being per¬
fectly aware that it was a mere nervous impression, I walked
on—keeping my eyes directed to it—and the perspective of
the form, and this disposition of the parts, appeared to change
with the change in the point of vision, as they would have
done if the structure had been real.”
Herschel’s explanation of what he saw—“a nervous im¬
pression ”—is really no explanation at all. To make a ner¬
vous impression something must be, or occur, to produce that
effect on the nerves. How could a “ nervous impression ”
project a house, and make it real as the brick and mortar
dwelling had been ? Psychometry explains this most satis¬
factorily. It was not fancy. What was it ? I say it was
the building. I say there is something to everything that
death cannot touch. My experiments in psychometry demon¬
strate that everything has a spiritual counterpart. We have
interior senses by which we can recognize it. A specimen
from Egypt calls up to the eye of the sensitive, when placed
upon the forehead, life-like scenes of the Nile valley, long
ago. I give to the sensitive person a little fragment, it may
be from a rock, a wall, a tomb, a ruin—it is a specimen ; I
don’t tell him (or her) what it is, or where it came from—I
don’t even know myself where it came from, and only ascer¬
tain, afterwards, by looking at the printed number pasted on
it, and then looking for that number in my written catalogue,
which will tell what the fragment is—where it came from.
But the sensitive goes on, without being told anything about
it, and describes, perhaps, the scenes on the populous banks of
the Nile in Pharaoh’s time, or the rocky hill-sides of the
valley, and describes the rock-hewn sepulchres, and the artists
there at work with chisel or with brush, carving and deco¬
rating the wonderful figures cut out of the rock, in the heart
of Egypt, three thousand years ago.
The sensitive goes back, not only to the gigantic tree ferns,
unrolling their fronds in the world’s primal ages, and sees rep¬
tiles rushing through the waters, or lying dead on the shore,
but even sees cockroaches run out when the dead carcass of the
huge reptile is turned over by one of the land-slides on those
torrid hills of mighty rains. These experiments, and others
of a similar nature, I have tried by thousands.
You say these statements are extravagant. But there are
hundreds of extravagant things that are true. I know these
to be true. People say, you shouldn’t tell such extravagant
things, the world isn’t prepared for them yet. But what is
ever going to prepare the world, if the truth is never told it ?
The world would be babes for ever, if people acted upon that
principle. Somebody a thousand years ago said something,
or I should not be saying this to-night. If nature is bold
enough to teach me a truth, I ought to be manly enough to
tell that truth to my neighbour. There are deeps infinitely
deeper, and heights infinitely higher, than any that have yet
been explored. We all ought to look at and attempt to sound
this great ocean, whose deeps can everywhere be recognised
by the clear thinkers of the world.
I hold that nothing dies absolutely. I hold that everything
which exists has an existence in the spiritual world. That
building is not only a house; it has its spiritual counterpart,
The more I investigate this subject of psychometry, the
more clearly this theory is impressed upon my mind as the
only possible way of accounting for these facts. But when
we have gone so far as that, it is very far from satisfying the
kpe goue so far ^ to prove that ^
* Extracts from a lecture recently delirerecl. at Hartford, OonnectjCat,
280
THIT SPIRITUALIST.
June 13, 1879:
person who lived a thousand or a million years ago can be j)
seen by the backward-journeying psychometer, just as he was ||
amidst his surroundings, and all his life of that day is brought j <
before us, that does not satisfy the yearnings of our spirits, j)
We want something grander. We want proof positive that h'
we, our individual selves, shall still live as individuals when i j
the monuments we have reared and the mountains we now j (
see are alike levelled under the universal law of decay—change j)
—death. I am inclined to think that these desires of the K
human spirit are to be met. Nothing is given to mock us. j;
We do not have these immortal aspirations without some \l
possibility of their being satisfied. I believe with Walt |;
Whitman when he says, “I know I am deathless, and am not |(
contained between my hat and my boots. This orbit of mine j)
cannot be swept by a carpenter’s compass. I do not know k
what follows the death of my body; but I know well that j)
whatever is really me shall live just as before. I suppose X j\
am to be eligible to visit the stars in my time. I suppose j)
that I shall have myriads of new experiences, and that the ] \
experiences of this earth will prove only one out of myriads, i;
How can the real body ever die and be buried ? It will elude j l
the hands of the corpse-cleaners, carrying whatever has !)
accrued to it from the moment of birth to death.”
There is a conscious life for the individual—life in the j)
great hereafter for the human spirit. What we see with the j (
eye is the least part of the real man. You never saw a |)
person—you see the flesh—the eyes ; you see the eyes, but not I \
what looks out of the eyes. There is a spirit behind that we j)
have never seen. But there are eyes that can see it. There j (
is an interior vision which can be exercised by many persons. |)
A person whose vision is so developed as to enable him to see j (
the spirit, learns absolutely and scientifically that man has a |)
spirit behind everything externally visible, and that that j (
spirit is deathless—death has no power over it.
When they said to Socrates, “ Where shall we bury you?” n
he replied, “ Bury me anywhere, if you can catch me.” But j)
they never have caught him. When I go into a cemetery, n
as I did to-day, and see on a tombstone the assertion,
“ Here lies John Jones,” j j
nobody lies but the tombstone! Nobody lies there. All the i)
notions people have about our dying and becoming food for \(
worms till some great trumpet blows are errors. What is [)
going to hear the trumpet when the ears are gone ?—when j \
the very particles are gone—eaten up by the apple trees, j)
Every man has been eaten five thousand times. If they were j j
all to arise as at sound of a trumpet, what a scrabbling there !)
would be for their bodies ! thousands of bodies being contained j \
in as many different bodies since. It is the wildest of all |)
fancies, and could never have been accepted but for our
ignorance. j (
What a grand thing that we can lay off this body when the I j
time comes! j (
There is the old man, feeble and worn out. His eyes are ! >
dim and his ears heavy; sounds can hardly make their way j ?
to the indwelling spirit. Oh! he wants to sleep a long sleep. ; (
Come, 0 death angel, to the old man; it is just what the old I j
man wants. Give him new eyes to see with, new ears to hear j i
with, and new legs to walk with. He has a new body now. 11
Hoes he want that old one any more ? You couldn’t hire j j
him to go back into it. You might as well expect an eagle <
that is soaring in the sky to come back and got into his old j;
shell. There is a dead man, as you call him—but there is no j (
man there! There is the eye, but no seeing ; the ear, but no I >
hearing—the body is there, but not the man. Back to the ||
earth—let it go back to the bosom of our universal mother, | j
and help to make material for the new men and women who K
are still to come. r j
There is a dying man ; his eye is dim, his cheek pale, his j (
friends stand weeping round as they look upon what seems 11
to be the dea th agony of the departing. This is what makes j j
death so terrible. But there is something we do not see—a | j
radiant spirit doing its best to rid itself of the old body. Hid j (
you ever see a chicken trying to struggle out of the shell ? | j
We see such a struggle in the birth of the departing spirit. ! (i
This struggle of the man seems terrible. But there is the j)
radiant spirit, calm as the morning. It looks down and (
smiles sadly to see them weeping over what i i no longer a !;
man but a corpse. My sister, Anna Henton Cridge, was a
clairvoyant. I have heard her describe the spirit departing,
as she saw it with her spiritual eyes. She saw every step of
the process by which the spirit passes from the body, then
putting on the perfect form. There is a connection still with
the body—a slender golden cord. When that golden thread
is severed the spirit can never again go back into the body.
My oldest son, Sherman, who was a clairvoyant from his
very infancy, has given me a description of a dying man
whom he saw while making a psychometric examination—
he gave it in these words :—
“ I see a man ready to die. He lies on a fiat place, and
faintly groans. Nobody appears to notice him. . . . He is
dead. I see the man’s spirit, standing still over him. It
looks better than the dying man. It stands up, and looks a
good deal better than the man. Now the spirit is a little
higher—about as tall as I am—above him. It keeps rising
and rising—but slowly. Now it darts away quickly, and I
cannot see it. It went like a flash.”
A much more complete description of the spirit’s departure
from the body was given by Myra Carpenter, in a letter to
Mr. Joseph Baker. She was treated by mesmerism for
epileptic fits, and soon became a good clairvoyant, and
eventually a seer of spirits :—
“ My mother and I had often talked of death and immor¬
tality. She frequently mesmerised me when she was in
health, and I was in the clairvoyant state by her assistance
when the spiritual sight was first given me. By your assist¬
ance (Baker’s), I acquired the power of putting myself in
that state without the assistance of an operator. She had
often requested that I would, at the time of her decease, put
myself in that state, and carefully notice the departure of the
spirit from the body. Her failing health admonished her
that her end, for this life, was near; but she viewed it with
calmness, for her thoughts were full of the life to come, and
her hopes placed on her Father in heaven. Heath had no
terrors for her. When she felt its approach she sent for
me, as I was absent attending an invalid. I came, and re¬
mained constantly with her until she left us for a better
home. Her last words were addressed to me. Perceiving
that she was dying, I seated myself in the room, and was soon
in a state of spiritual clairvoyance. With the opening of the
inner sight, the painful scene of a mother’s death was changed
to a vision of glory. Beautiful angelic spirits were present
watching over her. Their faces were radiant with bliss, and
their glittering robes were like transparent snow. I could
/eel them as material, and yet they communicated a sensation
I can only describe by saymg it seemed like compressed air.
Some of these heavenly attendants stood at her head and
some at her feet, while others seemed to be hovering over her
form. They did not appear with the wings of fowls, as
angels are commonly painted, but they were m the perfected
human form. They seemed so pure, so full of love, that it
was sweet to look at them as they watched the change now
taking place in my mother.
“ I now turned my attention more directly to my mother
and saw the external senses leave her. First the power of
sight departed, and then a veil seemed to drop over the eyes;
then the hearing ceased, and next the sense of feeling. The
spirit began to leave the limbs, as -hey died first; and the
light that filled each part, in every fibre, drew up towards the
chest. As fast as this took place the /eil seemed to drop over
the part from whence spiritual life vas removed. A ball of
light was now gathering just above her head ; and this con¬
tinued to increase as long as the spirit was connected with the
body. The light left the brain last; and then the silver cord
was loosed. The luminous appearance soon began to assume
the human form, and I could see my mother again ! But
oh! how changed ! She was light and glorious—arrayed in
robes of dazzling whiteness; free from disease, pain, and
death. She seemed to be welcomed >y the attending spirits
with the joy of a mother over the bir .h of a child. She paid
no attention to me, or any earthly object, but joined her
companions; and they seemed to go away through the air.
I attempted to follow them in the spirit, lor I felt strongly
attracted, and longed to go with my mother. I saw them
ascend till they seemed to pass through an open space, when
| a mist came over my sight and I saw them no more.
" I returned, and soon awoke—but not to sorrow as those
who have no hope. This vision, far more beautiful than
June 13, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
281
language can express, remains stamped upon my memory. It
is an unfailing comfort tome in my bereavement.”
This is a beautiful revelation. If we bad read it in a book I
wbicb had been handed down to us, stamped with the sacred j
seal of authority and the churches, how the people would have |
welcomed it! But why should not we receive it to-day ? Is |
God dead? Are there no revelations in this nineteenth
century ?—Religio-Philosophical Journal.
MEDIUMSHIP.
The prominence which has for some time past been given to the philosophy
of Spiritualism through the largely attended lectures at the Melbourne
theatres, has naturally caused inquiry as to how the alleged facts pertaining
to that philosophy can be demonstrated. It is generally understood that a
medium is necessary; but the popular idea of the nature of mediumship is
generally hazy, and often very absurd. In its dictionary definition it signifies
“ something which fills in or bridges over the intervening space,” and m this
instance the “something” is a semi-spiritual aura, which is generated in more
or less volume and intensity by the embodied spirit, and, partaking of both
material and spiritual, serves to fill in the hiatus between it and the dis¬
embodied one. Few know how widely diffused this faculty is, and it is
consequently assumed that mediumship is rare and exceptional; but, from
experience, we are inclined to think that at least one person in three has
some mediumistic power, which may be developed by application to a state
which will enable him to commune in some manner with the spirit-world.
There are, however, many degrees of mediumship, the most common being
the “ motive,” a particular aura, by which spirits are enabled to cause oscil¬
lations of a table or stool, and, by an arranged system of telegraphy, com¬
municate with the sitters. Through some media this remarkable force can be
focalized, and used to produce sounds like raps upon the table or floor. Next
comes mechanical writing, where the medium, sitting passive with pencil in
hand, feels an unseen force controlling the muscles of the arm and hand, and
producing more or less intelligible writing apart from any volition of his.
This often develops into impressioualwriting—and here ensues a difficulty;
for whereas, in the first instance, the medium is perfectly oblivious of what
is coming, in the second the words flow into the mind more rapidly than the
pen can write them, and an impression is conveyed that it is the individual
mind that suggests them. This feeling retards development. It only requires
passivity of mind to overcome the difficulty, for though the communication
will probably harmonize with the ideas of the person through whose organism
it comes, the style and quahty will, as a rule, be found to differ and exceed
the ordinary capacity of the medium. The planchette is an adjunct to the
success of an investigating circle, enabling two persons, by the blending of
their influences, to obtain mechanical writing where one alone would not
have the necessary power. Another common form of mediumship is trance,
in which state the medium’s organism is often controlled by disembodied
spirits, who frequently manifest the peculiarities incident to tneir earth-life.
Any person who is susceptible to mesmeric influence may become a trance
meoium, for as certainly as an embodied spirit can biologize him, so certainly
can a disembodied one do the same. There is a wider range of mediumship
comprehended in the trance form than any other, reaching from obsession by
the tow and depraved spirits, who wander about the earth’s surface in search
of means to gratify their low desires, to those bright and beautiful messengers
of God, who come laden with love for humanity to pour through humanlips
the wisdom of the spheres. But it is only through appropriate channels that
such as these can communicate. The body must be free from grossness, and
the mind clear of impurities, to enable the good and pure even to manifest
themselves, and where intellectual pabulum is expected, it can only be given
through a mind capable of receiving it. The physical brain and human
organism can only be worked up to their highest as such, or to the extent
that the individual spirit would be able to express itself through them if
cultivated to their highest capacity.
There are inanv impressional and seeing media, the former being impressed,
more or less vividly, with ideas that otten guide their actions; the latter
seeing spirits in the abnormal, and sometimes in the normal state. High-
class physical and test mediums, such as Dr. Slade and Mr. Foster, are rare.
The quality they possess is a gift which few inherit, and those who do so
often fail to utilize it for the good of humanity. In ancient times the exhibi-L
tion of such powers would have insured their possessors reverence and dignity, ! \ i
because they would have been recognised as of and from God; but in these 1/j
modern days the order of things is reversed, for whilst one section of the j /1
community treats them as rogues and impostors, the other attributes their (j
powers to the devil. Hence this particular gift is rather a dangerous one,
and renders the possessors’ life anything but a pleasant one, so they arc apt j) j
at times to wish they were as other men. Moreover, with some natures, j) i
where the moral principle is not strong, this constant lying under the ban I (i
of suspicion, and the knowledge that no one believes them to be honest, has ! \ i
a demoralizing tendency, making them careless of their honour, and inducing i) i
them to stoop to fraud for mercenary motives. There is yet another class i / i
of media, called “ materializing.” This is merely the direction of physical i ^ |
mediumship into a particular channel—the medium being a passive agent, (i
and allowing spirits to use the forces he generates and the finer substances !) |
of his body to clothe their otherwise invisible forms, and give them a I) I
temporary materiality. This form of mediumship, although well developed j (j
in a few instances, is yet in its infancy, and is destined to become much more ] (i
common as a manifestation adapted to this material age. We have sketched !) i
these outlines of mediumship with the view of enlightening those who may j) I
deem the investigation of Spiritualism an arduous and difficult task. It is l/i
not so when entered into in a proper spirit. It may take time and appUca- (i
tion to arrive at an indubitable demonstration, but the first evidences leading | (|
to that conclusion may be obtained at an early period, and this to an earnest |) i
student will give interest and zest in its pursuit. To facihtate investiga- |) j
tiofi, a primary knowledge of the philosophy of spiritual intercourse and the l--
laws of mediumship is essential; but this may readily be obtained from
books which are to be found in either the Melbourne Public Library or at
the reading-room of tin Victorian Association.—Harbinger of Light.
: THE MODERN PROPHET ELIJAH.
) | Some time since, in this journal, and more recently in Spirits Before our
(| Eyes, a full account was printed of the Hastings artist, dressed in sheepskins,
) | who beheves himself to be the prophet Elijah. So far as we could see, he
IJ j was sane enough, except in trusting in utterances which reached his con-
j) j sciousness in an abnormal way, and which he beheved to come from spirits,
j The said spirits gave great Biblical names, and talked twaddle. The Globe
!of last Tuesday says:—
I “A correspondent writes to us :—A man, representing himself to be the
I prophet Elijah, is creating quite a furore in and about the ancient city of
1 Chichester. Hearing the fame of this remarkable individual, 1 drove over
; J from Portsmouth last week to have an interview with him. Passing
Hi through North-street I observed a tall, handsome man dressed in a pictu-
| j: resque garb of sheepskin, with a cap of the same material, and high cowhide
I) i boots, standing in the doorway of the George and Dragon Inn. I went
I c | inside and commenced to speak to him, but he retired upstairs. After some
| (| difficulty he was persuaded to come down into the best room of the house,
m where he received me. His appearance is striking, having very good,
m clean-cut features of Asiatic type, being tall in stature, and having an
j (| ever-ready smile, and his dark whiskers being set off to perfection by the
| (I light dress and cap. He carries a staff and small horn which he blows
|} j through the streets and announces his meetings, which are held in the
i /1 People’s Park and are very largely attended. He told me that he had been
j) i a landscape painter, and that eight months ago he had seen several visions,
Iin which he was told to call himself Elijah at all meetings, and that he was
the real prophet as foretold and promised in Malachi iv., verse 5. This
verse is the whole foundation of his doctrine, which is to preach Anglo-
Israelism to the English people, who, he states, are the lost ten tribes of
Israel; and if they do not listen to him and in time return to Jerusalem a
! great famine is prophesied. It is almost unnecessary to say that at some
of his meetings he has to encounter great opposition; sometimes he has
been stoned, and at others made quite a hero of. He was lately in the
south-east of England. He now expresses his determination to go all over
London.”
Mr. G- C. Joad, of Oakfield, Wimbledon, one of the witnesses for the
Slade defence, has resigned his membership of the National Association of
| Spiritualists. So also nas Mrs. Lowe.
Abhormax Calculatihg Powers.—A correspondent of the Bombay
i 11 Catholic Examiner relates the following extraordinary instance of the power
i (i of mental calculation possessed by a native dalal:—“ Reading on the subject
| j of memory in Abercrombie’s Intellectual Powers brought to my mind a
; j j remarkable instance of the wonderful power of memory which I witnessed in
|) | Hubh some time ago. I had heard that in the town there was an old
I (i Lingyeth dalal or broker, who could perform marvellous feats in mental cal-
i (| culation. Through the kind offices of a mutual acquaintance I succeeded
L)| in getting the old man up to my bungalow. I wrote down on paper about
i twenty single figures, and read them out one by one. The old man totalled
them up without apparently the slightest effort, and then at my request
repeated each figure. I then gave him a long addition, with three, six, ten,
and any number of figures that occurred to me at the moment, and proceeded
myself to make up the total on paper. Long before I had finished, my aged
friend had his total ready, correct in every detail. The next feat was in
multiplication—about fifteen figures multiplied by fifteen figures. Here, too,
| he had his answer mentally worked out long before I had come to the end
j of the tedious calculation on paper. I tried him in various ways, and the
result was quite astonishing. This does not appear to be merely a gift of
i (: nature. He said that when young he had often as a broker to make hurried
i /: calculations, and finding he had rather an aptitude for the work, had gone
j / i on practising till he reached the stage at which he then was. His son he is
i (i subjecting to a regular training in mental arithmetic, and it seems the youth
Hi is almost as expert as his sire now.” •
Death of Dr. Horace Bucket Hare.—Dr. Horace Binney Hare, only
son of the Hon J. I. Clarke Hare, President Judge of the Court of Common
Pleas, No. 2, and grandson of the late Horace Binney, and of the late Dr.
Robert Hare, Professor of Chemistry in the University of Pennsylvania,
died on Friday last at the Island of St. Thomas, West Indies, of pulmonary
consumption, being in the thirty-fifth year of his age. Dr. Hare, after
finishing a collegiate course at Harvard, graduated in the Medical Depart¬
ment oi the University of Pennyslvania. He displayed great aptitude for
chemical studies, following in this respect his grandfather, Robert Hare,
and prepared himself especially as a teacher of chemistry and hygiene.
About three years ago he went to Germany for the purpose of making
original investigations to better fit him for a larger sphere of teaching. He
was for several years instructor in chemistry in the Episcopal Academy in
this city, and was appointed to deliver a course of lectures on that subject
in the Franklin Institute, but was prevented by his failing health. On
several occasions bad health interrupted his studies, and he travelled
extensively in hopes of repairing his constitution. His final illness dated
from December, 1877. Since September last he has been sailing in the
yacht Resolute, in company with Dr. Ingham, cruising in Southern waters,
and the news of his death on board the yacht on last Friday morning was
received in this city by cable on Friday afternoon. He leaves a widow and
four young children. As a teacher Dr. Hare was comprehensive and clear,
and induced his students to take deep interest in chemical studies, by his
devotion to it. His original work was characterised by great thoroughness
and candour, and the unusually complete preparation which he had gained
by his studies here and abroad promised for him a brilhaut career, both as
a teacher and investigator.—Philadelphia Ledger.
282
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 13, 1879.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
BY E. LOUISA THOMPSON NOSIfOETHY.
The Illustrated London News of last week contains an obitu¬
ary notice and portrait of the great American anti-slavery !
advocate, editor of The Liberator, William Lloyd Q-arrison, |,
who has passed to his reward within eight months of the 11
departure to the higher life . of his English brother-in-arms ] (
and co-worker, George Thompson. I|
Whilst every newspaper throughout the United Kingdom, j <
including Punch, has contributed its quota of praise, and j
testified its high respect for the noble life through untold j
trials of this distinguished man, it behoves us as a body to I \
note specially the fact and spread it abroad that William |)
Lloyd Garrison had been for some fourteen years or more an i}
avowed believer in modern Spiritualism. j /
I do not consider myself qualified to do justice to Mr. |(
Garrison’s rare virtues, public and private, or even to epi- j /
tomise his struggles for the freedom of his coloured brethren, j J
the negro slaves of America; but this I may say, that a braver j)
soldier of the Cross never presented himself unarmed to the i j
fury of the ruling slave-holding spirit of those times. He
held his own, yet without violence or resistance, in the face of !)
personal insult and danger of bodily injury. 11
Yery early in life Mr. Garrison was seized by a desire to j)
overcome the colossal evil of slavery. Writing to my father j(
(George Thompson) he said, “What! proscribe, degrade, j)
enslave human beings on account of the colour of their skin ! j (
I would as soon deny my Creator as quarrel with the work- j)
manship of IIis hands.” My father, fired by the same zeal, j(
after meeting Mr. Garrison in England, in 1833, joined him | j
in America, and together they battled against national pre- m
judice, in the face of mobs, threats, and personal violence. A I j
gallows was erected before the house in which they lived to- I (
gether, from which hung two ropes, noosed, intended, as was I)
announced by superscription, for “ Garrison and Thompson.” j<
Kettles of tar were prepared in which to immerse the “ aboli- i)
tionist, Thompson,” and many plans laid to seize him bodily. | <
One of these coming to the knowledge of William Lloyd j)
Garrison, he saved his friend and gave himself as a substitute, i (
and he suffered a voluntary imprisonment, advised by the I)
mayor as the best means of rescuing him from the infuriated j (
mob. After passing through many such ordeals, and on one j /
occasion lying hidden in a wood all night whilst a mob was i (
hunting for him, my father was advised to quit the shores of |)
America, for a price was set on his head, and his friends be- ;'
lieved it would be impossible to protect him. Most re- j)
luctantly therefore he left his dear friend Mr. Garrison and i (
the noble band of brave men and women who had rallied |)
round his banner of freedom, a banner never deserted till h
planted victoriously on the free soil of America in 1865.
1 n that year Mr. Garrison considered the work of his paper, ; (
The Liberator, at an end, therefore wound it up and retired !)
from public life. The principles of William Lloyd Garrison j)
were essentially those of peace, his weapons those of love, i (
and these he carried out, not only in the spirit but in the j >
letter. In 1838 he wrote the following sonnet expressive of j(
these principles:— i)
“ I boast no courage in the battle-field,
Where hostile troops immix in horrid fray j
For love or fame I can no weapon wield j)
With rival hate, an enemy to slay. I \
But test my spirit at the blazing stake, j \
For advocacy of the Rights of Man | j
And Truth—or on the wheel my body break; i)
Let Persecution place me ’neath her ban,
Insult, defame, proscribe my humble name— j (
Yea, put the dagger to my naked breast; ] j
If 1 recoil in terror from the flame,
Or recreant prove, when peril rears its crest,
To save a limb, or shun the public scorn, (
Then write me down for aye weakest of woman-bom.” )
As I have elsewhere stated,* my father and Mr. Garrison (
returned to England together after the consummation of the /
life’s labour of the former, and the crowning with such few j s
titles and honours as America bestows, on the latter. Having j /
received a telegram informing me of their landing, I hastened j |
to meet them and to take them home with me to my house i)
at Birkenhead. It was during this visit that I found they j\
were both deeply convinced of the truth and benefits of spirit j j
* Vvtjohologiffll ReyieW} Ja nary 2nd. 1879,
ministrations. My father entertained me during the whole
evening of his arrival with accounts of his various spiritual
experiences in America. Mr. Garrison had retired to rest very
poorly after the sea voyage. Going into his room next morn¬
ing to carry him some tea, I took occasion to mention a subject
which was causing me some small uneasiness in my then un¬
enlightened state, for I had grave fears lest my father’s brain
might be giving way through his life of excitement and
continuous public work, so I told Mr. Garrison the subject of
our last evening’s conversation, and asked what he thought of
my father’s delusion ? To my surprise I found that his well-
balanced brain was in a similar state on Spiritualism.
Immediately Mr. Garrison most earnestly testified to the full
truth of all my father’s statements, for many of their
experiences had been in common. I found Mr. Garrison no
less a firm believer in the truth of Spiritualism than in the
many benefits it might bring to mankind if wisely used ; he
had been healed of severe pain himself by the manipulation
of unseen spirit-hands, and had had other experiences. As I
look back on the testimony given me by that great man I am
surprised and humbled at my own self-sufficiency, that hear¬
ing words, deliberate, calm, impressive, fall from lips I had
learned to revere from early infancy, confirmatory of state¬
ments I had lately listened to from my own father, I did not
at once recognise their truth; but no, not until I had investi¬
gated for myself, and confirmed all experimentally, did I
believe.
Many articles will be written in journals of all politics and
sects on William Lloyd Garrison’s public life; these lines are
mainly written to record the great fact that this man, so
honoured now by the civilised world, so beloved and
reverenced in his own country and abroad by millions, was a
Spiritualist. I am told that since the abolition of slavery,
every hat was raised to Mr. Garrison as he passed in the
streets of Boston, where he lived, so complete at last became
the recognition of his unflinching heroism in days of
persecution and unpopularity. My father—who had continued
to labour in the same cause at a distance, returning twice to
America to help personally—shared in Mr. Garrison’s ultimate
triumph, and those who had begun their work amidst batteries
of brickbats and rotten eggs, whose baptism had been a
baptism of fire, ended it literally buried amidst the wreaths
and flowers strewed upon them, and lining their way as they
journeyed through the States of South Carolina together.
The last time I saw William Lloyd Garrison—during the
summer of 1877, when he made his last visit to England
with his son, Mr. Frank Garrison—our conversation turned
on Spiritualism; the venerable philanthropist said, alluding
to his belief: “ It is a great truth on which I never fail to
offer my testimony whenever the opportunity occurs,” and I
could adduce instances when he has offered this testimony in
English society where doubtless it was not received with
credence.
Mr. Garrison, writing to me in daily expectation of re¬
ceiving news of my father’s release, early last October, said:
u Who can desire a prolongation of this mortal existence,
especially in view of the glorious possibilities of the future
life, and the joyful deliverance from all ‘ the ills that flesh is
heir to,’ wrought by such a translation ? I am glad to know
that you derive both strength and comfort in this trying
hour from vividly apprehending what is implied in such a
change, when what is sown in corruption shall be raised in
incorruption, what is sown in weakness shall be raised in
power, and death is swallowed up in life. . . . Your
father’s departure seems close at hand ; nay, while I am
writing this, he may have passed behind the veil, * redeemed,
regenerated, disenthralled.’ If, however, on the receipt of
this, he should still be lingering, ‘dressed for flight,’ and
able to receive any message, assure him of my undiminished
affection; that even with moistened eyes I shall hail his
spiritual advent; that I regard the transition (for ‘ there is no
death—what seems so is transition ’) as as striking a proof of
divine wisdom and beneficence as has been given to man¬
kind ; that I shall cherish his memory with the warmth and
tenderness evinced by David toward Jonathan; that he will
ever have a claim upon my gratitude for his long-continued
and unfaltering friendship, and courageous and most eloquent
vindication of my anti-slavery career; that, when ‘ clothed
upon ’ in another sphere of existence, I doubt not he will find
June 13, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
288
ample scope for all his faculties and powers, with increasing
facilities for ' growing in grace and knowledge ; ’ and that,
whether my remaining days here be few or many (they
cannot be many), I trust to greet him, and be greeted by
him in * another and a better world,’ and still to be a co¬
worker with him in whatever duties and responsibilities may
be laid upon us. Our acquaintance and friendship have
extended through a period of more than forty-five years, and
certainly known no change; for the first moment we clasped
hands in London in 1833, we joined our hearts together as
one, and ever since their pulsations have continued to beat in
unison. . . .
“ Yours in the shadow as in the sunshine,
' “Wm. Lloyd Garrison.”
Whilst Mr. Garrison was penning these lines, which I see
are dated “ October 7th, 1878,” his dear friend was passing
serenely to the better state, where I doubt not they are now
joined again in that brotherhood of the spirit which united
them in bonds of eternal friendship from the moment of
meeting. As I think of these two noble spirits thus re-united,
and at last triumphant over all the various trammels and
chains of the earthly life, I thank God for the knowledge I
have received through the light of our faith that such re¬
union is no longer with me a matter of trembling hope, of
anxious, yet scarcely certain belief, but of positive knowledge.
To the last my father’s eyes dwelt lovingly on Mr. Garrison’s
portrait, which hung in his room; his finger was often
directed to it when he could not utter a word. So deep was
his affection for this friend that he appeared to wish our
thoughts drawn in the same direction as his own, and to the
last he thus indicated that he was thinking of him and longed
to see him.
Well, thanks to our great new knowledge, we know that
these two have met and joined the hosts aboyefr/on our side,
which is the side of Truth. We know that by these transitions
we are not losing earthly parents, dear friends, and brave
advocates, but gaining faithful allies, whose earthly tenements,
having become too frail for the noble spirits they enshrined,
have simply been quitted, enabling the freed spirits to appear
as they are, in such pure raiment as each has woven for him¬
self, by adherence through evil report, as through good, to
the dictates of a noble soul, clear head, and pure nature. I
felt a prophetic warning before my father’s departure that
ho would return to earth and work for the cause of Spiritual¬
ism, and I uttered this premonition—and wrote of it, too—
before he died. I also asked my father if he would return
and manifest himself. He emphatically answered, with great
energy, “ I will, if it be possible; ” and now from many sources
I receive tokens that he is fulfilling this promise, nor have I
any doubt but that his brave fellow-worker, who has just
joined him, will fulfil that which I have chronicled and will
now repeat: “ I trust to greet him in another and better
world, and still be a co-worker with him in whatever duties
and responsibilities may be laid upon us.” This last message
of William Lloyd Garrison to George Thompson was written
as the latter was even then passing away.
Blundell Sands, near Liverpool, June 8th, 1879.
The “ Absolute Test Materialisation Stance,” recently described in these
pages in an article by Mr. Charles Blackburn, has been republished in many
American newspapers which have been sent to us. Among others it is in
The American Socialist—of all papers in the world,—the organ of the
Oneida community of Free-lovers, and an ably-managed journal.
Captain James on Mesmerism.—The Publishers Circular. (Sampson
Low,Marston & Co.) of June 2nd says:—“From Mr. W. H. Harrison,
Mesmerism, with Hints for Beginners, by John James, formerly Captain,
Ninetieth Light Infantry. Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very
firm believer in. the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences at the request of his
publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author has treated the
subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable that matters on wliich
the public require information should be treated; and he tells concisely,
and yet fully, many of the secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters
as a somewhat dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the
progress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and the bless¬
ings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and he holds that
one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists is, that they give up the
trial too quickly, and that they also mesmerise far too many persons. As to
the beneficial results of mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever,
whether as a cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and
his final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but persistently
employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’ Even if Captain James
fails to make converts by his little volume, he may at any rate be credited
with having written an interesting work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”
I IS SPIRITUALISM A SCIENCE OR A RELIGION?
| ) | BY P. CLAVAIKOZ (LEON PAYEE), CONSUL-GENERAL OF PRANCE AT TRIESTEr
Boileau bas said, “ What is clearly conceived can be clearly
| (| defined,” and assuredly this axiom is nowhere more applicable
|)| than to this subject. What is generally understood by the
!!' | term Spiritualism ? Evidently it signifies the antithesis to
| materialism. According to the encyclopaedists of the nine-
| teenth century, materialists assert that nothing exists but
| what is perceptible to the senses, which are not only the
| sources but are the sole test of all knowledge. In direct
j) | opposition to this proposition, Spiritualism admits the existence
| (| of a governing soul distinct from matter, and magnifying this
|) | conception it rises up to a belief in God. We can, then, confi-
| j | dently assert that Spiritualism is the essence of all religions, and
111 that there can be no religion without it. “ Spiritualism,” says
111 Bescherelle, “is a system of philosophies, each of which asserts
m the existence of other beings than those clothed in flesh,
|(| which beings are called spirits.” It is more than probable
| [ | that it is this interpretation which has given the name of
| (! Spiritualism to the collection of phenomena which for the
I) | last thirty years have astonished the true savant, and made
| (j so many proselytes. But does it follow that it is a science ?
|) I By no means. Spiritualism can only be considered as a belief.
< It recognises a Supreme Being of infinite perfection. This
j) | Being is of necessity personal, since its attributes are infinite
j(| intelligence, will, and love. The unity of its essence is im-
j)| pressed on all that emanates from it. Soul and body, spirit
| (| and matter, co-exist in God, and are, so to speak, but the two
|(I modes of His nature, distinct in their manifestation, but
| (| working together for the same purpose, and combining in one
l)| supreme unity. Nothing exists without God, and everything
| (i exists by Him and in Him. Everything is created to come
jji to Him, and as He is infinite love and infinite happiness,
| (! and as it is for endless happiness that all creation strives, by
|)| never-ending progress all creation must mount to Him.
| (i The universe then of spirit and matter is nothing but an eman-
j)! ation of the divine substance, and is part of God, of whom it
(j is the eternal manifestation.
The two attributes of God’s essence are gifted with distinct
! (| energies, capable of attaining their destined end, but at the
m same time through divergence inharmony is caused in the
111 working of the whole. Eternal laws, like God Himself, are
necessary to subdue these energies and control their im-
| (| pulsion. Man, a micro-God as well as a microcosm, an epitome
j) j of God as to his soul as he is an epitome of matter as to his
| (| body, is created a free agent because God is free, with the
i) | power, however, of using this liberty only within the circum-
I \! scribed limits of his being. All-powerful to use his personal
|) I responsibility, which affords him the means of progressing,
he is impotent to interfere with the general laws which
|)! govern the whole. His intelligence acquires a conception of
I (| God from the universal harmony of nature; and an inward
:) | aspiration towards the ideal—increasing in force in proportion
j (i as it is nurtured—demonstrates to him his immortality. His
I)! business it is to study the laws to which he is subject, and to
I i j endeavour to understand them, in order to utilize them in the
i) j eternally ascending onward march. So also in the history of
! (! humanity. We see each stage marked by the discovery of some
m law, the total of which laws constitutes that science which is
i I but “ the clear and certain knowledge of something founded
j upon positive demonstration.” Every discovery is the har-
| j! | binger of a step in moral or material progress, often of both
j) I together, and it is the scientific application of these discoveries
| (| which indicates the extent of the advance made by humanity
m in intelligence and capacity. It is not astonishing that
!) j mankind should be struck by the manifestations of the new
11 \ phenomena, the continuance and universality of which render
m it incumbent on intelligent men to collect the facts, in
i) j order to submit them to careful examination. This is what
m has been done, and eminent savants in America, England,
! f | France, and Germany have affirmed the truth of the facts
|>| to which their attention has been drawn. As, however,
111 science is based on the evidence of the senses alone,
m it has not dared to go beyond this material barrier.
In Spiritualism, which is not science, nevertheless calls upon
|) | science to observe these new phenomena, and insists upon an
i (| answer being given to the question: “ How are they caused ? ”
H j No reply being forthcoming, Spiritualism over-leaps the
obstacle of official timidity, and takes upon itself to assert tjiat
THE SPIEITTJALIST.
June 13, 1879.
284
an invisible world co-exists with the visible one, and that its l(j
action is the immediate cause of all the phenomena attributed |j|
by science to forces whose origin it is incapable of determin- l(
ing, but the existence of which it cannot deny. Spiritualism, j)j
although not science, is the centre whence proceed the III
wonderful phenomena which upset received notions and [)!
greatly excite conscientious observers who study them. It is [(
Spiritualism which brings together sympathetic groups, m
among whom propagators of the phenomena are established, j (|
The union of these propagators, the convergence of the same j jj
desires, the unity of feeling, put the medium in a state which I (j
favours the production of such extraordinary phenomena as j) j
the raising of heavy bodies, which then float in mid air, the j l j
passage of matter through matter, direct writing (i.e., writing >i
without any one in the flesh touching the pencil), and phos- (
phorescent lights. I have had my fingers illuminated with- i)j
out its being possible to discover whence or how the lights i (j
came. Then again, we have marvellous apparitions in full ])]
light, as produced in the presence of Dr. Monck. A vapour j j j
was seen to come from his body, condense, and take the form \)\
of a perfectly human figure, tangible, solid, animated with j(|
speech and action, behaving like a mortal human being, until, j) |
upon the diminution of the fluidic force which sent it forth, it m
gradually dissolved and, again becoming vapour, returned to ) j
the medium, disappearing in the same manner it had ap- j(j
peared. In order that there should be no doubt as to the |)|
part the medium takes in materialisation phenomena, appa- (j
ratus has been used which proves that there is a considerable j; i
reduction in the weight of the medium during the manifesta- j(j
tions. I do not .speak, be it understood, of any of the purely i j j
psychical phenomena—the importance of which Spiritualists j (j
appreciate, but of which there is no objective proof. I confine j) |
myself to phenomena demonstrable to the senses, for which !(!
reason denial of them is impossible. Spiritualism, which j
has produced them, does not admit the supernatural. It i(j
refers everything to law which it calls upon science to un- j)j
ravel, as it is bound to do. There are men of science, such as j (j
Hare in America; Crookes, Wallace, Yarley in England; ;)!
Elammarion in France ; Zollner in Germany, who are willing | (:
to study this matter, and who assert the truth of the | j |
phenomena, thereby giving them a stamp of authenticity 1(1
which places them beyond doubt. The deniers of to-day are |; |
only to be found among the ignorant and conceited, who fight | (|
against the refutation of their philosophy. Honest and m
conscientious savants admit the phenomena, although all are m
not yet prepared to acknowledge their source. Their utter i) i
inability to offer any explanation is most complete; any Kj
attempt that has been made is puerile. It is necessary for |) |
them to give up the attempt to explain everything from a j (|
material stand-point, and to accept the existence of the \h
psychical element, but the distance from spirit to matter is too | (i
great for us to demand of them a capitulation yet. The m
variety, the multiplicity and the persistence of the phenomena, ! (|
the impossibilities in the way of science giving a purely j/j
physical explanation, will gradually bring about the necessary iyi
change. Besides, there is no hurry. Ideas, like geological i) I
strata, succeed one another but slowly, the lapse of centuries i) i
being necessary for their formation. Spiritualism has existed |)!
from the time man first breathed, but no attention was paid | \ |
to its phenomena or else they were misinterpreted. History i / i
at long intervals makes mention of them, enabling us to \(\
follow their course. The records prove conclusive^ that the i} |
manifestations adhere to human nature, and that there is jji
nothing abnormal in them. If they are becoming stronger |/|
and more general to-day, invading the whole globe, it is be- j (;
cause science, whose business it is to observe them, has also i) |
progressed, and will soon be able to give them its sanction, j (i
which will cause them to be generally accepted. It is only a I j
question of conscience and of time. . j {j
Spiritualism, I repeat, is not a science, but it rests its |)
claims upon the phenomena, and it seeks its demonstration • i j j
by demanding scientific explanation. The nature of its phe- |)|
nomena is such that it opens up new horizons, and according i j!
to the belief of Spiritualists, it marks a stage in the progres- |) |
sive march of humanity. nj
As Spiritualism is not a science, is it a religion ? In its I) j
belief in God and the perpetuity of individual existence it | ( |
contains the essence of all religions, and is the synthesis of all | /!
the essential elements. It has part with all the cults which
have for their base the recognition of the Supreme Being.
It teaches that by the law of personal responsibility and
infinite justice, every act of man is judged with perfect equity ;
it depends on himself whether he will progress or remain
stationary. Soaring above the early efforts of spirit to rise
at the commencement of its development, Spiritualism frees
itself from all formulas, repudiates anthropomorphism under
all its disguises and marches resolutely forward wrapped in
all the splendours of the ideal to which it aspires. Full of
faith in the existence of the two divine modes of acting,
sparks of which it has received, it asserts that the happiness
of man consists in subduing the energies which are in him
and outside of him, in order to make them subservient to the
common good. The law of love is its motto, and universal
solidarity is the only temple for the worship of its followers.
Its creed is, that no step in advance can be made without
effort, that each effort brings with it its own reward, and
that the practice of the law of love in all its entirety opens
the door to all progress and leads to all happiness. Its
affirmation of the communication of the two worlds, visible and
invisible, is its chief feature, which communion it considers
an irrefragable proof of individual immortality, and evidence
of a general tendency to indefinite perfection. It is con¬
vinced that a conscientious study of the physical phenomena
will gradually induce science to confirm the great psychical
truths upon which it bases its faith.
LETTER FROM THE VICTORIAN ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS TO HENRY SLADE.
“ 84, Russell-streefc, Melbourne, March, 1879.
“ To Dr. Henry Slade.
“ Dear Sir,—I am directed by the General Committee of
the Victorian Association of Spiritualists to acknowledge your
courtesy in granting their sub-committee facilities for in¬
vestigating the phenomena occurring in your presence. The
said sub-committee report to us that they made careful
examination of the room, table, and surroundings, prior to
the stance, and carefully watched you during the whole sit¬
ting. That under these conditions they obtained writing
both under and above the table, and between their own closed
slates, whilst the said slate was in full view of all present.
That raps, levitations of the table, playing of an accordion by
unseen power, and other minor phenomena occurred. They
were so thoroughly convinced by the closest scrutiny that the
phenomena stated were not produced by any direct action on
your part, as to deem it unnecessary to avail themselves of
further sittings offered by you. We have therefore much
pleasure in testifying to the genuineness of your mediumistio
powers, which we believe are doing much towards demon¬
strating the facts of Spiritualism to the world.—Wishing you
every success,—I remain, dear sir, yours faithfully,
“ A. Yon Alkemade, Mon. Sec.”
Suspended Animation. — A wonderful discovery is reported from
Australia. The skin of a living animal being punctured, a drop of a potent
South American poison is introduced, whereupon the creature at once be¬
comes rigid and cataleptic. To prevent decomposition, the body is then
placed in a freezing chamber, where it may remain for weeks without altera¬
tion. After the lapse of any length of time, by putting the body into a warm
bath, and injecting a drop of a potent South American antidote under the
skin, the animal is instantaneously restored to full health and vigour. Our
prosaic antipodal cousins, meditating chiefly on their flocks and herds, seem
to regard as the chief merit of this marvellous invention the fact that it will
enable them to transmit to the mother country frozen-up bullocks and sheep
which, if not needed immediately by the butcher, can be resuscitated and
turned out to grass. But it is evidently open to far wider uses, especially
when it is applied, as it surely will be, to mankind. A contemporary suggests
that not only cattle and sheep, but human emigrants, might be cheaply con¬
veyed thus, as they would need no food during the voyage, and could be
packed like herrings in the hold. Elderly and valetudinarian persons, too,
who have no particular business to do, might prefer to be frozen up, so as to
hybernate through the long and dreary English winter. It is a painful
question to ask, but could their friends in all such cases—especially where
tliere was property to be inherited—be trusted to wake them up again ? The
safest plan, perhaps, would be to leave your body in such cases at the offices
of your insurance company, as it would be their interest to keep you alive as
long as possible. The insurance offices might keep these hybernating folks
in cellars all duly labelled, as bankers keep their customers’ cash boxes.
Meanwhile we anxiously await farther developments, not forgetting at the
same time that there have been such writers as Baron Munchausen and
Edgar Poe, to say nothing of M. About, who lately told the story of a man
frozen m> during the retreat from Moscow, and afterwards restored to anima¬
tion.—Graphic.
June 13, 1879* THE, SPIRITUALIST. 285
RELIGIOUS MANIA.
The following is the murderer Freeman’s story (see The Spiritualist of May
23rd) of the horrible sacrifice of his little daughter at Pocasset, Mass.:—
“ He believed it his mission to preach, and was a zealous exhorter. That
great things were in store for him as a missionary among the faithless of the
world he did not doubt. As time passed he came to regard it as his duty
to make some great sacrifice, which should result in a miracle and fix the
attention of mankind upon the new faith. Some time ago he announced
this belief to several of his fellow-worshippers. He says the long-expected
revelation of the necessary sacrifice came to him in the night. It was then
indicated to him that a member of his family must die by his hand. He
talked the matter over with his wife, and persuaded her not to stand in
‘the Lord’s way,’ as they both considered it. They had two daughters—
Bessie seven years old, and Edith five years old. The latter was a sunny-
haired child, the pet and the idol of the household. The father prayed long
to know who was appointed as the victim. He says he prayed that it might
be himself, but it was not so to be. After patient waiting the second
revelation came, late in the night of the murder. The pet Edith was pointed
out as the sacrifice. He awoke his wife, and told her what was demanded.
She begged hard for her darling’s life, but the husband was inexorable.
Working upon his poor wife’s fear of displeasing God, he at last gained
her consent. The scene that followed is horrible beyond precedent. After
Freeman had knelt and prayed that he might be spared the test of his faith,
he nerved himself for murder. He felt that he was another Abraham, and
that God would either stay his hand or else raise his daughter from the
dead, as a reward for his obedience. Then he and his wife went into the
bed-room, where their two children lay sleeping side by side. The mother
carried the eldest to her own room. Freeman turned down the bed-clothes
from the form of little Edith, raised the knife which he had provided for
the occasion, and waited to see if God would not interpose. After a vain
watch, and with great care, he plunged the blade into Edith’s heart. There
was an exclamation, and all was over. The insane father clasped his pet
in his arms, and held her till he was certain life was extinct. Then he
laid down and slept by her side, satisfied that he had done the will of God.”
The following is from last Wednesday’s Figaro :—
“ The terrible tale of the fanatic at Pocasset, Massachusetts, who ‘ sacri¬
ficed ’ his own child in an access of religious madness, must be fresh in the
memory of our readers. Some light has been thrown upon the unfortunate
man’s psychological condition by the publication of a letter from his wife,
who was a member of the same sect, and aided and abetted him in his crime.
It is addressed to her sister, and begins by describing the religious and
God-fearing life of her husband. ‘ One trial of our faith came after another,’
she says, ' and God blessed us very much the more we trusted in Him.
Charlie did not sleep nor eat, scarcely, for nearly two weeks. During this
time of painful trial he felt that God required him to have the faith of
Abraham. You know what that was in regard to Isaac. At last he said
to the Lord he would be willing to bear the test; he thought that would
be all God would ask. That seemed to end it for the day. That night it
came to him more powerfully; he could not help it. Oh, God alone knows
how I suffered! But having such great faith in God to believe He would
stop him just as He did Abraham, I could not hinder him. Neither of us
thought God would suffer her to be touched, any more than that the day
would fail to come. We believed God would thunder from Sinai before any
harm should come to our darling.’ Thus it appears that the two wretched
creatures did not at first believe that they would be allowed to proceed to
extremity in their ‘ sacrifice,* and only adopted the idea that their child
would be restored to life, when they found how miserably their faith had
been disappointed in the first instance. Even yet the wife represents her
husband as believing that ‘ God is going to manifest His power and glory,
and Himself be justified in the eyes of the world.’ Her own faith seems to
be wavering, but by no means dead. Were it not that the subject is too
ghastly for even Mr. Browning, we would recommend it to his attention
for his next series of ‘ Dramatic Idylls.’ ”
The Sunday edition of The Times of Philadelphia says:—
“ A Delaware parallel to the Pocasset tragedy has been unearthed by the
Wilmington Every Evening. Gillie Hitchens, now living between Concord
and Laurel, in Sussex county, one day in February, 1857, cut his child’s
throat because ‘ the voice of the Lord had commanded him to offer him as a
sacrifice, and no voice said, “ Stay thy hand.” ’ ‘ GilUe’ was a farmer, a blue¬
eyed, sandy-haired man, who read the Bible a great deal. He had attended
a Methodist protracted meeting the night before the tragedy. When he
reached home his wife observed that he was labouring under great excite¬
ment. During the night ‘ the voice of God commanded that he should kill
his dearly-belovcd little son, and offer his blood as a sacrifice.' In the morn¬
ing he went to the woods and once more heard the command. Then he
prepared a keen knife to slay his son—a babe eighteen months old. Taking
the child to the woods he threw himself on the earth by it. Soon a dog
began to snuff at his feet. Supposing that, like Abraham’s ram, the dog had
been sent to take the place of the child, he waited for God to so command.
Hearing no command, he slew the child. In May, 1857, Gillie was put upon
trial at Georgetown, Judge George P. Fisher, now of Washington,
being prosecutor, and Senator Willard Saulsbury defending. When the
State had closed its case, M r. Saulsbury arose, but was so overcome that he
burst into tears, and the jury at once returned a verdict of not guilty. Gillie
has since lived an upright life, kind and loving to his children. He does
not dare to read the Bible, however, as he becomes crazed.”
A Correspondent sends us from Allahabad the following extract from a
description in The Pioneer of April 22nd of the Hurd war Fair :—
“ The whole procession extended more than half-a-mile, and must have
numbered over three thousand men. After the Naringis had bathed, the
barriers were again thrown open, and the (oi polloi' rushed in. Then came
the Nirvanis, the Bairagis, the Udassis, and last of all the Nirmullis, with all
the pomp aud splendour they could respectively muster. It was late in the
afternoon (four o’clock before the last of these reached the sacred spot.
“ By far the most numerous and the most disreputable in appearance were
the Bairagis. These mustered over ten thousand strong. During their passage
over the bridge an incident which was accompanied with serious consequences
to some of themselves occurred. Unable to restrain their enthusiasm, a
large number, from two hundred to three hundred, of them leaped from the
bridge into the main current of the canal. Most of those who could swim
were taken up at the nearest bridge, but it is feared that a considerable
number of them sank before they could reach it. The number who thus
perished is not known, but the fakirs themselves say there were not more than
eighty or ninety. This event occurred between eleven and twelve o’clock,
in the presence of tens of thousands of spectators, and demonstrates how
utterly impossible it is to restrain such fanatics when they wilfully break
through all laws of restraint. I fancy many of these men were under the
influence of bhang or some other intoxicant, as their brethren say that
many of them could not swim. The current at this place is very rapid,
running, I should say, at not less than from five to six miles an hour. Just
before this took place another still more serious accident occurred at one of
the barriers on the Saharanpur road. At the point where this road opens
towards the bathing gh&t there was a strong barrier formed by strong
wooden stakes, sunk firmly into the ground, and cross-bars thrown across.
During the time the severalsects of fakirs bathed, these werekept closed and
largecrowds waiting fortheirturn at the gh&t pressed in closely behind them. To
, relieve this inner barrier there wasasecond,placedaboutonethousandyardsbe-
Ihind the first. When the intervening space was pretty well filled, the outer
] barrier was put down. This outer barrier stood at the end of a masomy bridge
that spans a deep ravine. The road behind it is unusually wide* and no
one ever dreamt of the possibility of an accident at such a place. On the
j north side of the road, and close to the bridge, stood a little grass house,
and a wood fence joined it to the wall of the bridge. A police station stood a
| few yards to the rear of the grass house on the same side of the road. The
| ravine below the bridge is dry and about thirty feet in depth. During one
i of the intervals, when the barriers were down, the crowd gathered in over¬
whelming numbers behind this outer barrier, and notwithstanding the
] efforts of the police to keep them back, kept surging to and fro, till at last
the front ranks were pressed outward through the grass house and wooden
I \ i fence, and some three hundred persons were driven headlong into the ravine
I) j to the north of the bridge. The barrier remained intact. Of those that fell,
|)i sixteen persons were taken up dead, and about as many more injured, some
I of them very seriously. The doctors were immediately sent for, the bruised
i\j and maimed were removed to the police chauki, and everything that could
! | be done for them under the circumstances was done. The doctors said
|) I they expected about ten more would die of the injuries they received. This
j (! occurrence threw a shadow of gloom over the proceedings of the day, the
| \ I arrangements for which had been so elaborately made, and carried out with
i j i the precision of clockwork.
|(| “I feel it due to the authorities here to state that the accident can in no
11! way be attributed to any defect in their plans, or in the execution of them,
j (| Every man, European and native, during that long anxious day, stood to
hi his post, many of them without food or rest, till most of them were com-
| (| pletely exhausted. The people themselves were alone to blame, as they
| /! knew very well that in a few minutes the barriers would again be open.
I (I Such accidents are generally due to a few strong-willed and strong-bodied
ij men, who press forward regardless of all consequences to their weaker neigh¬
bours. Midnight at last brought rest to the wearied police officers and men,
I but that day’s work has already carried some of the latter to their graves,
I and has laid many others prostrate.
“ But the worst was yet to come. The evening of the 12th, though it
witnessed a general exodus from Hurdwar of many of those who had bathed
)| in the morning, yet witnessed among those who remained a fresh outbreak
j( j of cholera. Numerous cases were reported, and many died during that night
I (i and the following morning. Orders were issued on the morning of the 13th
j|i for the people to disperse, and by the evening of that day the island was
|)j pretty well cleared.”
If any one of these cases had occurred in connection with Spiritualism,
| (i newspapers everywhere would have been howling for weeks afterwards with
j) I virtuous indignation.
The Value of Vebified Psychical Phenomena.—The following
| (| extract from The Adelaide Secular Review, received by last mail, shows
ij the value set by materialists upon well-verified psychical phenomena, but
the writer does not appear to be aware that such certificates are plentiful
inside Spiritualism. Psychical phenomena are governed by fixed laws, and
are not “ miracles ” in the ordinary sense of the word:—“ Implicit confi¬
dence is not placed in the statements of ancient profane historians. Many
!(! of them are only compilers of legends and hearsay, not having seen what
j (j they relate, and we exercise judgment accordingly, and hesitate to receive
j; i such accounts with implicit confidence. And we reject at once mythology,
i) i and the magical, and the supernatural. We do not for a moment attach
j( j truth to the metamorphoses of Ovid, or the combats of the gods in Homer,
isj Nor do we pay much attention to the legends of Berosus andManetho, that
j) i take us back tens of thousands of years to dynasties of the gods. So in
j) i reading Scriptures we, as critics, ignore the miraculous because we expect
i (; miracles to be attested by incontrovertible evidence, something indeed more
jsj convincing than the hearsay testimony of men who have compiled their
i) i accounts from the traditions, and in some few instances from the written
jv j records they had access to. Unbroken testimony of the highest order
\(\ would be necessary to establish a miracle—something out of the common
I order of proof. A miracle, in short, must authenticate a miracle. The
value of testimony in a credulous age and among the ignorant may be
j illustrated by the belief in witchcraft, which was rmly fiestablished for many
J centuries. A decrepit crone is suspected of witchcraft; she is stripped
naked and thrown into the nearest pond of water; if she sinks she is
innocent, if she swims she is in commerce with the devil. It is computed
j that no fewer than 30,000 persons were burnt for witchcraft in England
1 alone.”
286
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 13, 1879.
INSPIRATION VERSUS CONSTITUTIONS.
The following is the concluding portion of an article from j (
The American Socialist of May 15th:— I)
rt The great mistake of the past, under the Fourier and Owen dispensation, j j
was the attempt to manufacture communities by the machinery of conven- i)
tions, constitutions, and by-laws. If these could have done the work j (
communities by the hundred ought to have been in existence to-day, and j (
the social and economical problems that now vex and strain public attention j J
ought to have been long ago solved and passed by. But turn to the History i)
of American Socialisms and read the long list of social experiments based j)
on written constitutions and enunciations of principles. Seven constitutions I j
adopted within two years, each one aiming to be better than what had gone j \
before, could not make a community of the nine hundred people gathered at i;
New Harmony, or save the greatest social project of Owen’s life from disas- j)
trous failure. A constitution made to endure ‘ for ever * could not save I (
Yellow Springs Community. And so on by the score, down to the consti- j (
tution which stipulated that ‘this association shall never be dissolved.’ |)
They all failed. On the other hand, the half-dozen religious communities j)
which were the outgrowth of inspiration and the uniting life of a personal j (
religious brotherhood, and with whom constitutional compacts and by-laws | (
held a secondary place, succeeded, and remain to-day witnesses of the power !)
of such common indwelling life and spiritual afflatus to harmonize and j)
organize men and women and lead them into all the victories of union, peace, i (
and love. And we have no doubt that in the case of every one of these ! (
religious communities, investigation would show that whatever there is of ! j
failure, decay, or inharmony, which has supervened or threatens any one of j)
them, is due to the supplanting of their original vitalism and inspiration by j (
institutionalism and law—cosmocratic wisdom taking the place of ourano- I (
cratic or heavenly. Were they to return to the conditions under which they j j
started and let hospitality to, and faith in, ever-growing inspiration snap the !)
existing bonds of legality and mediumistic inactivity, they would be bom j (
again into a new and glorious life.
“ Written constitutions are the expression of the truth seen and the ex- j (
perience reached to-day by those who adopt them. They may utterly fail i)
in the exigencies of to-morrow. If they are elevated into a creed beyond i)
which none may go, and barring out new truth, they become obstractions to j (
human progress. Even the Bible, with all its glorious truth and wisdom, i (
becomes such an obstruction if it is lifted into a creed and men settle down j)
upon it as a finality and shut themselves up against new revelations and new !)
truth from the spiritual authors of the Bible. Then its adherents dwell in I (
its letter, fight over it, and wrest it to their own destruction. For good | (
men, who live and act under the continuous afflatus of the spirit of trath, i)
written constitutions are unnecessary, for such men will always do the best j)
and the true thing for to-day, and remain free and unhampered to do the best ; (
and true thing to-morrow. Against evil men, if they become the ruling i (
party, written constitutions are worthless, because such men will always find i j
a way to override or ignore them. It follows that they are mainly of service i)
in furnishing rules of action for the party of legalists, to whom inspiration is j (
an unknown science. And in the hands of this party they are quite as likely j (
to be used as instruments of oppression against those who believe in pro- j j
gress under the higher law of inspiration, as they are to be made a * terror I)
to evil doers.’ ! j
“ Hence it is evident that the age of constitutionalism is a transition i (
period. It is the result of the conquest of arbitrary despotism bv legalism j j
under popular development. It is itself destined to pass away before the j)
advance of Spiritual government organized through universal mediumship. j /
The ‘ law of the spirit of life ’ will take the place of laws written on stone i j
and on parchment. The age of good men is coining, in whom will be ful- | \
filled the word of the Lord: ‘ I will put my laws into their minds, and write i)
them in their hearts; and I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me ])
a people: and they shall not teach every man his neighbour, and every j (
man his brother, saying, Know the Lord; for all shall know me from the i j
least to the greatest.’ They shall ‘ have an unction from the Holy One, and I)
know all things; ’ and ‘ the tabernacle of God shall be with men, and He will j)
dwell with them and be their God.’ Already the signs of a new dispensa- I (
tion appear. The world is everywhere coming under constitutional govern- j (
ment, and constitutional government seems rapidly advancing everywhere j)
toward republicanism—the ‘ government of the people, by the people, for j J
the people.’ But just as popular liberty advances to the sovereignty, and ! (
republican constitutions are believed to be the universal panacea, a new ele- I (
ment appears on the scene—a new force enters human affairs. The world- i j
wide development of popular liberty is met by a world-wide development of |)
Spiritualism. The gates are swung ajar by Him ‘ who openeth ana no man j)
shutteth,’ and all the past generations of earth’s inhabitants, and the hier- j (
archies of celestial realms, stand ready to come forth and take a hand in the |\
affairs of this world! What becomes of paper constitutions, Justinian codes, i)
or codes Napoleon, canon or civil laws, in tne presence of such a tremendous j)
event as this P What is the universal suffrage of the paltry millions of this | (
world’s citizens in the presence of the registered populations of the skies ? j (
Would they not be pretty badly out-voted ? And suppose the long-pre- |)
dieted day is at the door, when ‘ the kingdom and dominion, and the greatness |)
of the kingdom under the whole heaven, shall be given to the people of the j (
saints of the Most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all | \
dominions shall serve and obey Him ? ’ Surely, in the midst of the amazing ;)
events which are taking place, and in view of the possibihties which to-mor- j)
row may begin to be actualized, we are summoned anew to the study of the i (
science of human organization, and to an opening of hearts to the principles i (
of divine government. i)
“ The affairs of the nation are in a state which suggests that perilous times i)
may come unless the hearts of the people turn to the heavens for strength j (
and truth. And if in these days Socialism is to lay broad and firm founda- j (
tions in the world there is urgent need that its advocates and workers n
should study earnestly and prayerfully the matters of which we have j)
jpoken.” . ' ' j(
The fallacy in the preceding ide^s is revealed by the fact that
if they were to be carried out universally, no locomotive could
ever be constructed, for the makers must work under a con¬
stitution. Organization merely gives power, and is neither
good nor evil in itself. The good or evil lies in the use to
which the power is put.
SPIRITUALISM AT CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY.
Spiritualism is making considerable headway at Cam¬
bridge University, chiefly in consequence of the exertions of
Mr. James Campbell, and his habit of speaking out the truth
under all circumstances, irrespective of the appreciation or
disapproval of the public.
The events connected with the founding of the Cambridge
University Society for Psychological Investigation, of which
he is President, have already been recorded in these pages.
More recently Mr. Campbell was specially invited to address
the Cambridge Union Society on Spiritualism, which he did
about a fortnight ago, before an unusually large attendance
of members. Perhaps from recognition of the fact that he
was conscientiously advocating a somewhat unpopular subject
he was vigorously cheered, and except his opposer and one
other man, all the speakers took his side of the question at
issue, namely, that the prejudice of scientific men against
modern Spiritualism is unjust. Although two only spoke
against the motion, forty-three voted against it and twenty-
five voted in favour or it; not uncommonly at the Cam¬
bridge Union Society, the majority of the speeches are liberal,
and the majority of the votes conservative. A great many
of those present did not vote at all.
Recently, also, the Cambridge Union Society considered
the question of taking in The Spiritualist for its reading-room,
and resolved to do so. The President and four members of
the Committee of Management spoke in favour of this step.
Last Friday and Saturday the Cambridge University
Psychological Society held highly satisfactory stances with
Mr. Rita, who went alone to the premises of the Society, and
was held by both hands from first to last, in the dark. Fur¬
niture, including chairs and a heavy steel fender, was passed
over the heads of the sitters, and piled artistically upon the
table, as usual at nearly all Mr. Rita's stances.
To-morrow, Mr. James Campbell, who has passed his ex¬
amination, will take the degree of B.A. in Moral Philosophy
at Cambridge University.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN NOVA SCOTIA.
From time to time particulars have been sent us from Nova Scotia about
spiritual disturbances in a house there, differing in no way from the generality
of such phenomena. But of late they would seem to have grown stronger, as
set forth in the following summary from last Tuesday’s Evening Standard:—
“ Few people in the present day remember anything about the Deil of
Badarroch, although his doings were at one time tne cause of no little talk.
His operations were carried on at a farmhouse in the North of Scotland, and
took the form of making crockery jump off the shelves, peats fly out of the
stack at the unsuspecting passer by, and various other articles perform
strange and unaccountable evolutions. Ministers were called in, and prayed
long and loud with a view of exorcising the evil spirit which every one be¬
lieved to be responsible for this unnatural state of affairs; but prayers availed
nothing with the author of the misdeeds, and even the ministers became
targets for peats and other missiles. Wise men were called in to explain
the phenomena, but their cause remains unexplained to the present day.
A similar state of things to that which was witnessed at Badarroch is ex¬
citing a whole country-side in Nova Scotia. In this case, a girl, Esther
Cox by name, is the object of the evil spirit’s attentions—taking it for
granted that the general belief on the subject may be accepted—and of
course she has been interviewed. The reporter states that while Esther
was standing washing dishes a glass tumbler came down with a crash, and
shortly afterwards the rim bounced up and went flying over her head.
Esther, it is said, could not have caused these acts, and no one else was in
the room. Other articles pitched themselves or were pitched at her from
a distance of fifteen feet or so, and struck her. A bath brick and a scale of
weights then commenced to misbehave themselves, and finally the crockery
and furniture generally commenced to move about in a frantic manner, and to
forget, apparently, their ordinary functions, or at any rate to object to perform
them. The most serious part of the business, however, was the conduct of
what is described as a vicious jack-knife, which, inspired with a sudden
hatred of Esther, who had, perhaps, rubbed it the wrong way in cleaning it,
twice attacked her and stabbed her in the back, drawing nlood. Surely never
was jack-knife before guilty of such atrocious behaviour, and the acts became
none the less unaccountable when it is considered that before making these
cowardly aud unprovoked attacks it had to open itself. The household
ods generally, if we are to credit the newspaper reports of the affair, have
een converted into household devils, and all this to annoy poor Esther Cox.
When such deeds are done—when furniture is suddenly endued with life and
motion, and a jack-knife develops vicious propensities, for which, unfortu¬
nately, the law as at present constituted provides no adequate punishment,
the feats of Spiritualism become tame iu comparison,”
June 13,1879.
THil SPIRITtTALIST.
287
CorresponDence,
{.Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be
relumed; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which are
not anonymous.]  
A FLOBAl DISPLAY.
Sib,—I shall feel extremely obliged if you can afford me space in your
valuable paper to ask the attention and interest of its readers to our floral
display on Wednesday and Thursday next.
We shall be very glad of the help of any ladies who are proficient at ar¬
ranging flowers in vases, etc., etc., on Tuesday, the 17th, after twelve o’clock
at noon, at the Hall, 25, Great Quebec-street, Marylebone, near Baker-street
railway station. I write this on behalf of the Marylebone Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism. J. M. Dale.
60, Crawford-street, W., 10th June, 1879.
ROMAN CATHOLICS.
Sir,—I hope you will find room in The Spiritualist for the enclosed
letter to the British National Association of Spiritualists’ Council.
L. Lowe.
To the Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
42, Gower-street, W.C., June 2nd, 1879.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—I hereby beg to resign my membership of the
British National Association of Spiritualists. The recent dismissal and ex¬
clusion from the rooms of the Association of Dr. Carter Blake, obviously on
the sole ground of his being a Bo man Catholic, appears to me an act of reli¬
gious intolerance in which I cannot, consistently with my avowed principles,
be even a passive participator. Many weeks since I had the honour of re¬
signing my seat on your C ouncil, but having received no answer to the
letter in which I did so, and not seeing my name in your pub ished list
of resignations, I take this opportunity of recalling the matter to your
notice.—I have the honour to remain, ladies and gentlemen, yours faith¬
fully, Louisa Lowe.
WHAT IS A SPIRITUALIST?
Sir,—If I have an intellectual passion, it is for definition. I never knew
a false opinion that could survive it, a misunderstood opinion that was not
cleared up by it, or a true opinion that did not come out more evident by
virtue of it. It is the supreme condition and desideratum of all logical
thinking.
A short while ago I was at a house with other visitors, and found on
entering that the party were discussing what they were pleased to call the
supernatural. The opinion of the company being taken all round as to the
reality of the facts, of course I gave mine in the affirmative. Our hostess,
being on the negative side, deemed it desirable to reduce my vote at least
to a cipher, by exposing my infirmity of understanding, which she had
hitherto charitably refrained from alluding to. “ Oh, but you are a Spirit¬
ualist,” she unfeelingly remarked. “Because I believe these things?” I
asked, craftily contriving to tar all my party with the same brush. “Oh
dear no! but you go in for it all; you go to stances, as you call them,
and don’t find out the tricks.” “ And that makes me a Spiritualist ? Is
Mr. Crookes a Spiritualist, who, like my humble self does not believe in
spirits of the dead as agents in these phenomena P ” “ Of course you are—
both. You all try to hide yourselves behind Mr. Crookes.” I felt that I
was guilty in the eyes of all present of a miserable equivocation; but I left
with the world’s definition of a Spiritualist, so to say, in my pocket.
The general public understand by a Spiritualist any one who, having inves¬
tigated, accepts the facts, whether he does or does not assent to any
particular theory of their cause.
Shortly afterwards, I formed one of a party who were nearly all Spiritual¬
ists—at least, according to the world’s definition of us. In the course of
conversation I propounded the question which entitles this article. I give
the responses in a descending scale, from the most latitudinarian to the most
restricted definition.
A said, “ Every one is a Spiritualist who believes in the immortality of the
Soul.”
B said that any one who believes that the continued conscious existence
of deceased* persons has been demonstrated by communication is a
Spiritualist.
C would call any one a Spiritualist who believes in any of the alleged
objective phenomena, whatever theory he may favour about them, or even if
he have none at all.
D gave the world’s definition as above, (which is less general than C’s,
as it requires the Spiritualist to have been himself an investigator).
E would not allow of Spiritualism without spirits, but thought that the
spirits needn’t be human.
F thought that every Spiritualist, to be correctly so termed, should him¬
self have nad and have accepted proof from spirits of human survival.
(Herein he differed from B, who was content with belief upon testimony of
other investigators.)
G considered that no one had a right to call himself a Spiritualist who
had any new-fangled notions about elementaries, “ spirit of the medium,”
and so forth; or, who didn’t believe that departed human spirits, high and
low, accounted for all the phenomena of every description.
Some one asked if the British National Association of Spiritualists had
any qualifying formula for membership, or if it had ever put forth any defi¬
nition of what Spiritualism means. Reply, that it had not. This answer,
in connection with the different conceptions of Spiritualism above disclosed,
seem to me to suggest some remarks upon organization among Spiritualists,
and its objects, which may be relevant at a time when the work and
functions of the Association aforesaid are being subjected to a criticism
which it seems, through its Council, to resent. Heaven forbid that I should
* Spiritualists do not like the word “dead.” They may say "deceased’’ with a safe con¬
science, as the original meaning of that word is simply departed."
) i say anything to revive the personal questions that have lately had so dis-
) j agreeable a prominence. My observations, if you will admit them in a future
(| number of your paper, will be entirely abstract from all invidious applications.
\ I A Spiritualist. (?)
| LIVELY STUDENTS.
(i The following narrative from last Saturday’s Scotsman shows that ihe
)! Edinburgh students have given Mr. Morse the same kind of intellectual and
j I refined reception that they not long since accorded to Professor Blackie:—
) I “ Last night Mr. J. J. Morse, who designates himself an ‘ inspirational
(I trance medium,’ appeared in the Upper Oddfellows’ Hall, Forrest-road, to
) | give an ‘ oration.’ There were about 130 persons present, of whom more
) i than two-thirds seemed to be students, the remainder being ladies and work-
) i ing men. Previous to the commencement of the proceedings the students
i ] indulged in chorus-singing and peas-throwing. Mr. Morse was accom-
j j panied by a gentleman who described himself as an ‘ Englishman,’ and who,
j | on taking the chair, explained that he did so because the individual who had
} ] been expected to preside was prevented from attending. The chairman then
< | requested the audience to hand to him in writing subjects on which it was
(I proposed that the ‘ medium ’ should speak. About twenty such topics were
> i suggested, of which some fourteen were of a general character, the others re-
) j lating to the subject of Spiritualism. A show of hands was taken as to the
/ j one to be fixed upon, and, according to the chairman, thirty-five voted for
\; ‘ Philotaxes,’ and forty-one for ‘ Is man material or spiritual after death ? ’
)! The students and others in the audience, however, disputed the ruling of
ji the chairman, whereupon Mr. Morse remarked that they called their
J | chairman a liar. This statement was met with .cries of ‘ He’s not our
(j chairman,’ upon which Mr. Morse corrected himself, saying, ‘My chair-
J | man.’ A suggestion was made for the appointment of tellers with whose de-
) i cision the meeting should be satisfied, but this was met by the chairman de-
/1 daring that they must have the subject he had ruled in favour of, and no other.
(i A proposal was then made that the meeting dismiss the chairman and elect
j i one for themselves, but the gentleman occupying the position in question
j | refused to entertain the suggestion; and after a good deal of wrangling
) I on the point, Mr. Morse, speaking ‘ in a trance,’ asked the audience to
(| bear in mind that while offering to speak on any subject chosen by them-
(j selves, he by no means bound himself to be able to treat of it—(‘ Oh, oh,’
I and ‘ You should have advertized that ’)—because that would imply on his
part a knowledge of everything, which he did not profess to have. He then
proceeded to speak on the subject fixed upon by the chairman, but was in¬
terrupted in such a way by the students that he had repeatedly to resume
| his seat. There were renewed cries for ‘Philotaxis; ’ and eventually the
question was put to the speaker if he really knew anything about it ? He
answered that he was ‘ not prepared to treat with the subject ’—a statement
which was received with derisive cheering and cries of ‘ Why didn’t you
| say so at first ? ’ Mr. Morse then proceeded anew with his remarks, but
/1 was again and again interrupted. In the long run a ‘bargain was struck,’
I to the effect that the students should listen quietly for half-an-hour. At the
end of twenty minutes, however, the noise burst forth louder than before,
and in the course of the disturbance the ‘ medium ’ was told that instead of
answering the question he was delivering a lecture which he had given time
after time, and ‘ fooling the audience.’ Mr. Morse denied that such was the
i i case, and concluded by stating that, if there were people living in the next
j i world they must have a certain amount of materiality and reality belonging
/! to them. An opportunity was then given for questioning the ‘ medium; ’
(i but the answers seemed considered by the students unsatisfactory, and in
I the course of the interruptions which followed the ladies in the hall and a
number of the working men left the meeting. Mr. Morse thereupon resumed
his seat, and the students made a rush to the platform, at the same time
exploding half-a-dozen crackers and showering peas in all directions. Even¬
tually Mr. Morse left the hall in company with a friend, who conducted him
to a place of refuge in the building, until the students should have dispersed.
After wrangling for some time with the chairman, the students withdrew,
and forming into processional order in Forrest-road, marched by way of
(| Chambers’-street, the Bridges, and Princes’-street to Hanover-street, singing
) | choruses and rapping on window shutters with their sticks.”
Mrs. Weldon, whose vocal abilities are so well known, has established
} I some weekly meetings of a musical character in her house; admission free;
) | a collection at the close for the benefit of her Orphanage. Particulars may
/1 be obtained on application to her at Tavistock House, Tavistock-square—
(| the house in whicn Charles Dickens wrote Oliver Twist.
/1 The Cure of Dr. Slade.—The following paragraph from The Morning
(i Call, of San Francisco, gives a more detailea account of the cure of Dr.
) | Slade than we published last week :—“ The last steamer from Australia
) | brought to this city the famous Dr. Henry Slade, of New York, who has for
) j three years past stirred up Europe with his wonderful spiritual manifesta-
(■; tions. Shortly after leaving Sydney he became paralyzed, and remained so
JI during the voyage, in spite of the noble efforts made by the physicians on
) | board the boat to restore him. His right arm and leg had become useless.
(| In this condition he was taken to the Baldwin Hotel, and a messenger was
I immediately despatched for Dr. J. D. McLennan, psychopathic physician, at
■ No. 220, Stockton-street, who cures entirely by ‘ laying on of hands,’ and
who, as a healer, cannot be excelled. On entering the room where Slade
i was, he took him by the hand, and making a few downward passes from the
i brain to his arms and down the limbs, he told him to * get up and walk.’
■ i Dr. Slade did so, to the astonishment and delight of all present. The news
) went like wildfire over the hotel, and for a day the excitement in the hotel
} I was great—everybody speaking of the miracle that had been performed. We
I have on other occasions chronicled many of Dr. McLennan’s marvellous
I cures without medicine, and this last one is not the least. Dr. Slade has so
| far recovered as to be able to meet engagements at his parlours, No. 216,
Powell-street.”
288
THE SPlKlTtrALI&T.
Juite 13, 1879.
BRITISH MUSEUM LECTURES. .
Yesterday Dr. Carter Blake gave Lis first lecture “ On the Classifica¬
tion of Mammalia,” with examples from the lower divisions of the class,,
pointing out that the families of marsupials were so diverse that they pre¬
figured the orders of the higher-brained mammalia. He gave copious
examples from the natural history series-of the non-adaptability of form to
function in the organization of mammalia.—-TAe Times, May 28th.
The second of this series was delivered by Dr. Carter Blake yesterday
on the “ Classification, Modes of Reproduction and Development of the Skele¬
ton in Reptiles,” taking as his chief examples the lizard,the frog, the serpent,
and the tortoise. A lecture was subsequently delivered by Mr. H, St.
Chad Boscawen, M.A., E.S.A., on “The New Bronze Gates of Balawat,
Assyria,” when the chief arms of the gates were for the first time shown to
the public (through the kindness of Dr. Birch, Keeper of Oriental Anti¬
quities). A detailed account of the reign of Shalmanaz and of his campaigns
on the Mediterranean was given.—The Times, May 30th.
Yesterday the third;of this series was given oy Dr. Carter Blake on
“ the Zoological Collection, as illustrative of the law of representation.”
The lecturer devoted great time to show the difference between the external
and internal skeletons of vertebrata, and gave a minute description of the
genera and species of the higher mammalia. The development of the whale’s
skeleton received attention, and the lecturer pointed out the dissimilarity
which existed between the toothed and the toothless forms of the cetacea.
He concluded by some remarks on the edentata.—The Times, June 4th.
• The last of this series was given yesterday by Dr. Carter Blake, on
“ Comparative Anatomy and Anthropology in relation to Artistic Delineation.”
Commencing in the tomb of Mausolus, he pointed out the various ideas
which savage nations had possessed of representation of the objects familiar
to their eyes, and illustrated his remarks by the different methods employed
by Egyptians, Assyrians, and Etruscans of drawing the human foot, further
pointing out how the severe anatomy of Erancia and Sebastian del Piombo
accorded with some of the Greek models. He entered at great length into
the subject of the various anthropological types represented m the antiquities
from Cyprus, and the course was brought to a conclusion with a hearty
vote of thanks to the authorities of the British Museum.—The Times,
June 6th.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
U., Paris.—This correspondent writes, “I am of opinion that by control¬
ling our thoughts, and by keeping the stomach and digestive organs in order
we could rely on two-thirds of our dreams.” But some people who do so
find that it stops all dreaming, and brings on sound and refreshing sleep.
Just Published,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism
is produced by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over
the river of Death. It contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving
that the said spirits are the persons they say they are. The work, from
beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific
methods, giving well-prdved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow
from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of
Spontaneous Apparitions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some
of the phenomena connected with them. The connection between Spontaneous
Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism and Spirit Circles is also
made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work
is almost entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the
trustworthiness of the anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper, and handsomely bound in
half-calf, 8s. 6d., post free. Cloth edition, 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Vay (Countess Wtirmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams)
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Three Shillings and Sixpence. Imperial 8vo. Red edges.
“RIFTS IN THE YEIL,”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
This book is one of the cheapest and most elegant works ever published
in connection with Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
li!
Now ready, the Second and Concluding Volume of the
MECHANISM OF MAN:
LIFE, MIND, SOUL.
A POPULAR INTRODUCTION TO MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY AND [PSYCHOLOGY.
By EDWARD W. COX, S.L.,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain,
Vol, II. Treating op the Mechanism in Action, Price 12s. Cd.
Vol. I. may be had, price 10s. 6d. ; the work complete, 22s. 6d.
CONTENTS :
Part II.—THE MECHANISM IN ACTION.
Book I.—The Normal Action of the Mechanism of Man.—Chapter 1. Intro¬
ductory ; 2. The Action of the Material Mechanism in Health; 3. Of Un¬
conscious Cerebration ; 4. Of Mental Sympathy and Communion ; 5. Body,
Mind, and Soul in Health.
Book II. —The Abnormal Action of the Mechanism. —Chapter 1. Introduction
—The Psychology of the Future ; 2. How to be Pursued; 3. Objections and
Objectors; 4. Precautions in Research ; 5. Prepossession and Dominant Idea ;
6. How we Know; 7. Scientific Evidence; 8. The Plan Proposed.
Book III.—Of Sleep and Dream.—Chapter 1. What Sleep Is; 2. The
Physiology of Sleep ; 3. The Mental Condition of Sleep ; 4. The Seat of
Sleep ; 5. Of Dream; 6. The Material Mechanism of Dream; 7. The Psycho¬
logy of Dream; 8. The Phenomena of Dream ; 9. The Philosophy of Dream ;
10. Conclusions.
BookIV.—The Phenomena of Delirium and Insanity.—Chapter 1. Delirium;
2. Insanity.
Book V. The Phenomena of Somnambulism.—Chapter 1. Introduction ; 2.
Somnambulism ; 3. Natural Somnambulism ; 4. Artificial Somnambulism;
5. ThePhenomena of Artificial Somnambulism ; 6. The Physiology of Somnam¬
bulism ; 7. The Psychology of Somnambulism.
Book VI.—Supersensuous Perception.—Introduction; Chapter 1. The
Phenomena of Supersensuous Perception; 2. The Physiology and Psychology
of Supersensuous Perception.
Book VII.—Trance.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. The Phenomena of Trance;
2. The Physiology and Psychology of Trance.
Book VIII.—Psychism. — Introduction; Chapter 1. Objections and
Objectors; 2. The Witnesses; 3. Psychic Force ; 4. The Methods of Inves¬
tigation ; 5. The Phenomena of Psychism ; 6. The Psychic; 7. The Physio¬
logy of Psychic Force; 8. The Directing Intelligence ; 9. Phenomena of
Psychism; 10. More Phenomena of Psychism; 11. Other Phenomena of
Psychism; 12. Communicated Phenomena; 13. The Physiology and Psy¬
chology of Psychism.
Book IX.—The Argument.—Chapter 1. The Summing up; 2. Conclusions.
LONGMAN AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spirit*
ualism, and setting forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
BY
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious
Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents s—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : Its Place
and Function — Religion and Dogma — Psychism and Spiritualism — The
Philosophy of Inspiration and Revelation—Christianity: Its Place andHuman
Elements.
London: Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d,, Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges,
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By Captain John James
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an author who has had thirty years’ experience in
Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
June 13, 1879
THE SPIRI'TTTALIS?,
m
BOOKS. ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHO¬
LOGY, MESMERISM, ANTHROPO-
Price Five Shillings. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new book by
"M.A. (OXON),” oir
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE YEIL.”
LOGY, AND BIOLOGY.
PSYCHOGRAPHY.
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable ofW. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 38, Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has
been rented on the premises of the National Association of
Spiritualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist News¬
paper and publishing business are not in any way connected
with each other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crooks, F.R.8. The best work
ever published to scientifically demonstrate the reality
of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
THE SOUL'OE THINGS, by William Denton. In this
extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to
reveal to him by vision events connected with the early
history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus
saw the Mastodon and other extinct animals as if living
and moving before them; they likewise saw the scenes
by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions
of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation
of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engrav¬
ings, drawn by the sensitives as the visions passed
before their eyes. The substance of a review of this
book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect that there
is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants
who would not cheat him. The question as to the
reliability of the narratives therefore narrows itself down
to the question of the reliability of clairvoyance, which,
when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate
results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
farther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary
communication should be established, it will be by
means of clairvoyance or some other of the latent and
little understood spiritual powers in man. Throe vols.
21s.; or 8s. per single volume.
WORKS Bit ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. ,, II. ,,
The Seer. ,, III. ,,
The Reformer. ,, IV. ,,
The Thinker. ,, V. „
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis j or. Truth v. Theology
Answers to Ever-recurrring Questions from the People.
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . .
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health . ,
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life: or, Spirit Mysteries Exnlaine(
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician; or Seeds and Fruits of Cri
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . .
s. d.
2 0
3 6
6 0
7 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS.
Oriental Religion (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little
book, recommended by The Spiritualist news¬
paper . . . . . . ,26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing
interesting particulars and legends relating to
Buddhism . . . . ■ . 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . , 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . , . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale
Owen . . . . . . ,.7 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the
Zulus, by the Rev Henry Gallaway, M.D. In six
parts . . . . . . , 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into
English, with Preliminary Essays and Explana¬
tory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talesand Superstitions
interpreted by Comparative Mythology, by John
Fiske, M.A 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an
Indian Officer . • . . . .60
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into
English from the Chinese Classes, by James Legge,
D.D., LL.D. . . . . . * 12 0
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P.
Brown, Secretary of the Legation of the United
States of America at Constantinople . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia,
North Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin
Thorpe. In three vols. . , . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahom-
med. Translated into English immediately from
the original Arabic, by George Sale .- » . 10 6
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’tRudes psycho-
logiques, fond 6 par Allan Knrdec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sooiete
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
SYNOPSIS OP CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing bn the subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfi—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
■General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That attested by the senses :—
1. —Of Sight—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Barns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. —Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr.
George King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls,
Baroness Von Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.
Valter, J. L. O’Suili van, Kpes Sargent, James O’ Sargent, John
Wotherbee, H. B. Storer, O. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee
with Watkins.
II. —From the Writing of Languages unknown to the
Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R, Dale Owen and Mr.
Blackburn (Slade) ; Dutch, German, French, Spanish,
Portuguese (Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame
Blavatsky (Watkins); Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timay-
enis (Watkins); Chinese (Watkins)..
III. —From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Prepa¬
ration of the Writing :— .
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the
Research Committee of the British National Association of
Spiritualists. Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci.;
Evidence of—Rev. J. Pago Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J.
Seaman (Slade); Writing within Slates securely screwed
together—Evidence of Mrs. Andrews and J. Mould; Dicta¬
tion of Words at the Time of the Experiment—Evidence of—
A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P.,
Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld, M.D., Miss
Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside a
Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of
Circumstances under which Experiments withF. W. Monck
were conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with
White Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the subject of the
Prosecution of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and
Professor Barnett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: its Mode of Opera Hon—^Evidence
of C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intellieence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory • The Oculist’s Theory j The Spirit¬
ualist’s Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Appa¬
ritions—The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox,
J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers, D. D. Hume, and
Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II. — Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—Emerson
—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisationof Spirits atlMoravia, N.Y.,
and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—
Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship
of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Ex¬
periments—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Setjeant Cox—Thejhalec-
tical Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Sub¬
stances? — Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits —
Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Descartes—Spinoza
—Herbert Spencer—Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power
over Matter—Testimony of S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit — The Senses—
Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine
of Nature —Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship — Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr.C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes,
Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dumphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmore,
Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—Conclusive Experi¬
ments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr.
C. Rone, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seer-
ship—Swedenborg—Kardoc—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge
— Bacon — Luther—Calvin — Plutarch—Charles Bonnet-
Materialisation of Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenom na.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in
God — Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine
Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—
The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Mora'ity — Sin
Punishes Itself — A Moral Creed — The Teachings of
Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newmatt—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kemer— Objections
to Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe—
James Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—
Concluding Reflections.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given through
mediumshin, also of articles and poems written by Spiritu¬
alists. A useful book to place in the public libraries, and to
present or send to those who are unacquainted with Spiritu¬
alism. It contains much about the religious aspect of
Spiritualism (given through the , writing mediumship of
“ M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of the most refined and elegant
works ever printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS. .
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I.—“ 01 Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through
the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmpnd.
j II.—The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III.—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris;
TV.—Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship
'of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens.
How the writings were produced : The Magnificent Egotist,
Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind
Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peck-
craft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon
(Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-medium¬
ship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XL—Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Idfe of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence MarryatV
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVJ.—Truth. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A.
,Oxon.” . . . ... .
XVII.—Thy Love. By Florence Marrjat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von
Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainha.ni. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXItl.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. O.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem Spiritual¬
ism.By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism. By
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kisling¬
bury from the German of Schiller.
XXVII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Chris¬
tianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat,
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. ByCaroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Hamson.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Wortherington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVH.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritu¬
alism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fa sirs in
India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Beme; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic )
by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex,
Colder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey,
XLUI.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation
to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdongall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R. G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
Formerly issued Quarterly at 2s. 6d,, is now published
Monthly at 6d., or 7s. per annum in advance, post free.
CONTENTS FOB HAY.
The Existing Breach between Modem Culture and the
Popular Faith; by John S. Farmer—An English Seeress of
the 17th Century; by J. W. F.—Spiritualism in Qhili; by
Perigrinus—Some Spiritual Experiences of the Celebrated^
Italian Physician, Jerome Cardan; by A. M. H. W.—A Priori
Proof of the Probable Truth of Spiritualism; by Alex. Monro,
M.D.—*PiOgression by Antagonism; by M.—The Future of
Spiritua.ism; by Thomas Shorter.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Glasgow : Hay Nisbet and Co., 62, Ropework-lane.
P. O. Orders payable to Hay Nisbet and Co., as above.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can
be given. 6 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON N.W
iV
THE SPIkITTJALISt
June 13, 1879.
Just Published.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo,
richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HABBISON'.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay,
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton
and the Author.
CONIENTS.
Pam Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the News-
S Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The
I.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.
—7. How Hadji A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter
from Hadji A1 Shacabac,' a gentleman who visited London
on business connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at
Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St, Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gardener.—
11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.—13. Material¬
istic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Photographer.—15. How
to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of
the Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old
Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-
Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “Under the
Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence-
Pabt 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at
Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s Lament.—29.
The July Bug.—30. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in
review nearly a column long, says:—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming
a thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr.
Harrison, exhibits a genuine vein or humour, deserves the
praise of all who are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent
laugh. Not that his muse restricts herself only to such
lighter utterances ; on the contrary, some of his poems
touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his
adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years.
. . . The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome
from which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The
Morning Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“Noone can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes are
pitched in “ something like the same key as The Bon
Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably
successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally we find verse
of great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure
poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“Thosewho can appreciate genuine, unforced humour
should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings.
Written, printed, published and reviewed by William H.
Harrison (38, Great Russell-street). Both the verses and the
short essays are really funny, and in some of the latter there
is a vein of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun.
The Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather' severe,
and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers ; but one of the most
laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he went to be
photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse. . . . Some of the
metrical legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be
sung at the meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or
fifteen years ago. Mr. Harrison, however, knows where to
plant ms fun, and an accurate scientific mind like his can
make jokes with success. ... To all who wish to read a
pleasant volume magnificently got up as a gift-book, we
commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Boohseller.
“ An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original,
and not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases
alluded to, and the imprint bears that the work is published
‘ A.n. 1877 (popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada);
a.m, ‘ 50,800,077 (Huxley).’ We believe that our readers
may derive a little amusement from a perusal of the
volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of
which are in verse and others in prose, some scientific,
others social, but all of them excellent. . . . The Lazy Lays
will make excellent and amusing reading for an occasional
spare half‘hour. . . . They contain nothing unrefined or in
bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photo¬
graphed, is well done. . . . Bound in a cover of somewhat
powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar
in connection with photographic and other Scientific
literature, has considerable facility of versificatidn, and
deals, in pleasant and humorous mood, with many scientific
follies which are better laughed down than gravely dis¬
puted.”
. From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with
a due foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has
produced a most welcome book. . . . ‘ How Hadji A1
Shacabac was Photographed ’ will be sure to make every
reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free' and easy author it is naturally to be
expected that his subjects, should bear some trace of this
peculiar idiosyncrasy, and indeed they are as free and easy
as himself. . .:. The poems are all characterised by smooth¬
ness and rhythmical swing. . . . Theworkis very elaborately
bound in cloth and gilt. ... A gorgeous design upon the
cover. ... If our readers wish to encourage laziness they
have a most deserving object in a very clever and versatile
member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays,
Mr. William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its
appearance and entertaining in its contents. . . . The author
is imbued with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all
while offending none
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison*
a well-known contributor to the London and provincial
press, and editor of The Spiritualist. . . . Many of the
humorous poems reminds us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The
Lay of the Photographer, The Lay of the Mace-bearers, and some
of The Wobblejaw Ballads would not have been unworthy of
Barham himself. Some of the shorter poems are exquisite,
and there pervade through the whole a religious sentiment
and poetie feeling which will make them acceptable to most
readers.”
From the Daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji A1 Shacabac
was Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not
too extensive comic literature. The story is one of which
extracts would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely
humorous. . . . Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-
book of an amusing nature, will find what they want in The
Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“ A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit. . . . The serious and sentimental verses belong to
the type of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
“ It is after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain,
or any of those merry souls who do quite as much good in
their day and generation as the authors of the most serious
works. The Lays are always original, sometimes serious,
generally comic, but never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty ;
full of lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts,
abounding in tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit
and humour; and one that may be read many times over. .
. . The get-up of the book is very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled ‘ The Wobblejaw Ballads,’
which appeared in the columns of this paper a short time
ago, and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B.
An irate member of the Town Council officially called the
attention of the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the
burlesques in the ‘Wobblejaw Ballads,’ but the members
assembled laughed at the matter, and proceeded to the next
business. The Mayor said that he did not mind them.] . . .
“ It contains some very choice poems and prose essays, is
bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original design of no
ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
■Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 74 d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIEIT-
ualism UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND
RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green,
These Essays won the Fibst and Second Gold Medals oe
the British National Association op Spibitualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
The trapped medium ; or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant. Dr. Proto¬
plaster, in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It
is an excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men and disbelievers in Spiritualism generally. A review
of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says that the pfamphlet
displays real genius. Price 6d.; post free, 61 d. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
A T MRS. PARKER’S, 3, BLOOMSBURY
r\ PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.,
a Philosophical and Developing Circle is being formed.
Those wishing to join will please send in their names. Terms
on application.
Mrs. Parker’s healing power is rapidly developing into
clairvoyance; she is replying to sealed questions when con¬
ditions favour. Office hours from 12 to 5 o’clock.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena
for a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner
with the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volmne.
London : Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size
of those of The Engineer newspaper), strongly and hand¬
somely bound in one, in half calf, red edges. They contain
records relating to Spiritualism in Great Britain from the end
of the year 1869 to the end of 1872, and ai tides and letters
by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F. Varley, The
Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of how
the Royal Society and British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr.
Crookes’s papers on the physicalphenomenaof Spiritualism,
as the Royal Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery
of lightning conductors. Very scarce. These two volumes
cannot be had separately. Price, carriage paid to any rail¬
way station in the United Kingdom, £1 10s.
London : W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-strset, W.C,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By Vie late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its
quality and size, the cheapest large work ever published in
this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism-
Sensations—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep
or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Bleep-
Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over
the Subject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feel¬
ings in the Look and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfiil-
ness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep
Caused by Silent Will ; and at a Distance—Attraction
Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Com¬
mands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations
of Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhi¬
bitions of Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the By¬
standers—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medica
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Anti¬
pathies—Existence of a Peculiar Fsrce or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision,
without the Eyes—Vision of Near Object: through Opaque
Bodies ; at a Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in
Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc..
Predicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of
the Seer—Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting
Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—
Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of
Speech and of Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—
Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI :—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-
Psychology and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Pheno¬
mena of Suggestions in the Conscious or Waking State-
Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised
by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The
Author’s Experience—Importance of -Perseverance—The
Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII :—Trance, Natural and Accidental;
Mesmeric—Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col,
Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not all Impostors—
Luminous Emanations — Extasis olten Predicted — M.
Cahaghet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VHI:—Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phre¬
nology-Effects of Teaching the Head in the Sleep—Variety
in the Phenomena—Suggestions—Sympathy—There are
Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do not
Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible
of Mesmerism—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—
Sympathy of Animals—Snail Telegraph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the
Human Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is
Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the
Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—
Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—
Physiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insanity,
Magic,-Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight
is Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Blinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena
Attempted or Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally
Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the Medium of
Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of
the Subject—Effects of Odyle— Somnambulisn—Suggestion—
Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—Odyhc Eman¬
ations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc..
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid
Perception of the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of
Science:—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints
—Conditions of Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure
—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious
or Waking State— Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an
Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and WithT
out Suggestion— Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—
Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or
by Concentration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The
Magic Crystal Induces Waking Lucidity, when Gazed at—
Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—
Cases—Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the
Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced with¬
out the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—
Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathic Clairvoyance in
the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Frank¬
lin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XTV :—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travel¬
ling Clairvoyance—Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—
Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—Clairvoyance of
Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV :—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous
Mesmeric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions,
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Con¬
cluding Remarks, and Summary.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevebidgke & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbora,
in the. Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Aye
Maria-lane, London, E.C,
