BEGISTEKED AS A NEWSEArEE.
K(jc ©Ibtst Httospaper tamuitb Mil; Spiritalisra m ®«at griiaht,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia.
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 10x0, Seventh-street.
No. 323.—(Yol. XIII.—No. 18.) LONDON: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Drapery brought into Circles by Spirits. By Emily Kis-
lingbury  205
War  205
Spirits and Mediums    206
The Past Revealed...   206
The Growing Influence of Spiritualism 207
A Spirit Seen Simultaneously by Two Persons  207
Clairvoyance Tested. By J. M. Peebles, M.D  ...207
An Hour with Professor Zollner...    208
Professor Zollner’s Experiments with Dr. Slade 209
A Spiritualistic Meeting at Langham Hall 210
Dr. Slade’s Success in Australia 211
A Scene from “ The Crown of Fire." (Poetry.) 212
Correspondence:—Unconscious Cerebration—Healing Me-
diumship—Spirit Drawings—The Williams-Rita Case
—Hoo Jamie Dee’d... 213
A Curious Story about Isabella of Spain and a Sacred
Cross        ... 215
Mr. A. R. Wallace’s Tropical Nature   216
Answers to Correspondents 216
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in Devonshire, 207 ; The
Growth of Spiritualism, 207 ; Ministering Spirits Out¬
side the Churches, 207 ; Government Aid to Original
Research, 209 ; Mrs. Weldon’s Case, 210; Spiritualism
in Hackney, 210 ; The Lunacy Laws, 215; Social In¬
fluence in Scotland, 215; A Relic of Shelley, 215;
A Four-Years-Old Preacher !  215
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
HSTABLISHED IN 1869.
FT1HE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, ana is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness ;sHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G, Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Ishani, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India) ;
Mrs. Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Cxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the Life of Swedenborg ; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. O.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. O.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.O.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling*
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United ^Kingdom, 10s. XOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Oapucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
IMPOSSIBILITIES MADE PROBABLE.
Consisting of three propositions, viz.:—1. Vitality makes
Matter. 2. Soul is Omnipotent. 3. A Persistent Life Natural
to Man. By J. M. London: Charles Watts, 84, Fleet-street,
E.C. Price 6d
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CALENDAR FOR NOVEMBER.
Monday, 4(7;.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m. Paper by Mr. J. Bonwick, F.R.G.S.
Wednesday, 6th.—Conversazione at 7 p.m, Music. Re¬
freshments, and exhibition of Research
Committee’s scientific apparatus.
Friday, tth.—Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Tuesday, 12(7;.—Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
. „ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 15(7;.—Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 18(A.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m. Paper by Mrs. Fitzgerald—“Ex¬
periences in the Home Circle.”
Wednesday, 20th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Soirde Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 22nd.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 26(7;.—General Purposes Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Seance Committee, at 6 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to—  H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec,
MR. and MISS DIETZ, having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (“One of
the most successful series ever known in London ”), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—Ooal-
brookdale, October 29; Glasgow (City Hall), November 2;
Deal, November 19; Maidstone, November 20; Perry Barr,
December 3; New Swindon, January 8, 1879. Favourable
terms arranged with Institutes or with Progressive Societies,
en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denhigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture o
“ American Humour,’’ illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Price 6d.; post free, 7$d.; cloth.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr, G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Now Ready. Price 2s. 6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY.
October.
CONTENTS:—
L—Why must I do what is right ? By St. George Stock.
II.—Astrology, Ancient and Modern.
III. —Recent Investigations in Psychology. By T. P. Barkas.
IV. —Immaterialism at Brussels. By J. O. Earle.
V.—Inspiration and Symbolism. By Mrs. De Morgan.
VI.—James Hinton’s Philosophy.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. No. III.—Pontigny and the
Shrine of Saint Edmund. By Rev. H. N. Grimley.
VIII.—Bohme’s Seven Days of Creation—A Study. By A. A.
Watts.
IX.—Materialistic Mysticism.
Hutton on Scott’s Supematuralism—The Education of the
Feelings—Around the World with Dr. Peebles—Evolution.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything qf the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Ptfce 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Nov. 4.—Mr. Bouwick, F.R.G.S., “ Soul Ideas amongst the
Ancient Egyptians."
Nov. 18.—Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, “ Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 1."
Dec. 2.—Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., “ Spiritualism in
Eastern Lands.”
Dec. 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ The intelligent Operator
at the other end of the Line.”
Jan. 6.—Baroness von Vay, “ Visions in Vessels of Water.”
Jan. 20.—Mr. W. H. Harrison, “ Hauntings."
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Dr. Carter Blake, “ On the Nerve Ether.”
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mrs. Ellis, “ Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2.”
April 7.—Dr. Bloede, “ Psychometry.”
April 21.—Mr. O. C. Massey, “ On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May 5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., “ Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “Review of the Session.”
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.  "
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily bo worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms 3, Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, E.C,
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
EIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 til! 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
(Eontentg.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 1, 1878.
BRITISH NATIONAL, ASSOCIATION OF.
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Ca'der, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackhnrn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1 Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Oernld, Mrs . 19» CambHdge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Ge.rald, Desmond Q., M.g.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Biixton,
S.'W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdoneall. 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honvwood Mrs.. 52,Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.E.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C , Barrister-at-I aw, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N. *
Speer, StanhoneTempieman.M.U.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
rnad. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P„ Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, E, Langley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett. Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester
Bonwick, J.. F.R.G.S., Vale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John. 10. Dnnkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W, H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T„ Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H , 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
FRz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G.. 6, Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S E
Green, G. F„ Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H-, 38. Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Deiamere-erescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo.,.Spencer-terrace, Louis-street. Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isbam, Sir Charles. Bart., Lamport-ball, Northampton.
.Toad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E.. Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A., Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derbv.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, AT.A.. University College, N W.
Nos worthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendlsh-road, Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newbould. Rev. w. w., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W„ 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C.. 15. Harper-street, Bloomsbnrv, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. O., 3. Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian. 6, Manor-villas, Afanor-road, Richmond.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. ALA., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morel!. 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Trcdwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner ,J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, AT. J., 9, Randolph-orescent, Alaida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., AT. A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
_ square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman. Airs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, ATiss H., l. The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg. Russia.
Aimed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCaponssou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth. J
The Baroness Adclma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potsohach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guidenstnbhe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folgue.ra, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Council lor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Deihez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A,
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell. LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
•James Mylne, Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude ATolstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.'
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, ATelbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Ron Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Alaur les Fosses, pris Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W- L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J.AIurray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
ATrs. J.M. Spear, 2210, ATount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., ATerignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andx-ieux, Quartier de TEurope,
Paris.
Rev. SamuelWatson,AIemphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq.,9 .Alontgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
AT. do Bassotnpierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre,Etterbeck, Brussels.
AT. A. Antheime Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxel’es.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet. Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 80, Upper Gloucester-plaee.Dorset-square,
Loncion, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.E.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epe-jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Alrs.’Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgra*ve-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratll, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
AI. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
ATiss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E,
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—Al. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasso, 28,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Biyton, Esq., 53, Sigdou-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 8, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sooiedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid, Presi¬
dent—El visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sooiedad'Espu-ita Central de la Republica Alexicana. President—
_ Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Alexico.
Sociedad Espirita dl Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small Svo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Sjnritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—IL The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II,
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Afistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B,
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner Is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; andMr.Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
’R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
Li ® engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
1%/riSS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45
-LvJL Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Friday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
RS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
The celebrated vocalist and
ORATOR, MRS.M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Hand-Writing, Phetos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CIURATIVE MESMERISM AND CLAIR-
J VOYANOE.—Professor Adolphe Didier (33 years estab¬
lished) attends Patients and may be consulted at his residence
from 2 to 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
Consultations by letter.
MESMERIC HEALER.
RS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes-
M
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vemon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5.
Annali DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete.
Published on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d.,paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German aud foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
WANTED.—A copy of the English edition of
the Baron Du Potet's book on Mesmerism. W. H.
Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, London.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael's-terrace, Folkestone.
Brighton.—miss wood, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. Terms on ap
plication.
Ko. 323.—VojLUJVIE THIRTEEN; NUMBER ElQHTEEJ^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1st, 1878.
DRAPERY BROUGHT INTO CIRCLES BY SPIRITS. j
BT EMILY KISLIN GBTJRY. | /
The present moment seems opportune for relating an jj
incident in the history of the a Katie King” manifestations, j)
and as I have full permission from Mrs. Cook to make it j
public, I hope you will favour me by kindly giving it inser- j
tion in your journal. 11
At an early period in the development of her daughter ||
Florence’s mediumship, Mrs. Cook became aware of the I)
great care and vigilance necessary for preserving the purity i
and integrity of the manifestations, and she soon added to \\
the mother’s wise watchfulness of her child’s character and |
reputation, the keen scrutiny of the investigator into startling |
and often delusive phenomena. ! |
On one occasion, when ei Katie King ” was at the zenith of I >
her materialising power, Mrs. Cook observed with horror j
that that innocent-seeming “ spook ” had arrayed herself in a j <
garment which Mrs. Cook recognised as her own handiwork, j j
and the property of her daughter. Keeping her own counsel, !
she made an excuse for bringing the seance speedily to a |
close. She searched the cabinet, but finding nothing, went | j
upstairs alone to her daughter’s apartment, where, on open- j
ing the linen-drawer, she perceived the garment in question, j
which had been evidently unfolded and hastily replaced, j
Returning downstairs with her secret, and having assured j
herself that Miss Cook had not left the se<m?6-room, and that, I
therefore, the garment had not been replaced by her, Mrs. j j
Cook requested, after the guests had left, that another short i (
sitting should be held. j
“ Katie King ” made a full confession, and excused her- | j
self for her delinquency by saying that the “ power ” not j
being very strong that evening, she had saved herself j
trouble by using things belonging to the medium. Mrs. j
Cook rated the spirit soundly, and told her that, if ever such a j
thing happened again, she would close her doors and never j
give another stance. “ Katie ” retired abashed, and presently
emerged from the cabinet in a robe adorned with beautiful |
Indian embroidery, of a quality and workmanship far sur- j
passing in splendour anything possessed by Miss Cook or her j
mother. . j j
She politely asked if that would a do,” and promising j (
never to repeat an experiment so dangerous to the j
medium’s reputation as the one she had previously performed, j
the seance was broken up. That promise, so far as the j
experience and powers of detection of Mrs. Cook, and other j
observers are concerned, was faithfully kept, and the mani- j
festations were in no way weakened in appearance, while j
their inherent value and interest were enhanced by the stern j
demand for truth alone. j j
The lesson is only too apparent. If, in a circle so carefully j
guarded, deception attempted to creep in, must we not expect j
it to rear itself hydra-headed where no jealous eye keeps watch, j
no firm but loving hand is bold to strike ? | j
My advice to Mr. Williams and other public mediums is j
this. Hold no public circles where men may come and go, i |
and spirits may play tricks, with or without the cognisance j
of any one. Keep to private engagements and the recom- j
mendations of friends, and of those who understand some- j
thing of the subject, and try whether by this course a new j
and more truth-inspiring class of manifestations may not be ! j
evolved. j
On Wednesday evening next, 6th inst., the National Association of
Spiritualists will hold their first social gathering for this season, at the
rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, London. In addition
to the usual first-class music and singing, some gentlemen on the Ex¬
perimental Research Committee will explain the new weighing and self¬
registering machinery, also the galvanometric apparatus, used in con¬
nection with certain physical manifestations with mediums.
WAR.
The following is extracted from a speech by the late Mr.
George Thompson (a Spiritualist, and formerly M.P. for the
Tower Hamlets) on the Horrors of War, delivered in the
United States in the year 1866, and never previously pub¬
lished in this country. It has been copied by his daughter,
Mrs. Nosworthy, for The Spiritualist, from the original
manuscript in her possession :—
*c Yonder are hosts of men, armed with the deadly imple¬
ments of human destruction, advancing through valleys or
mountain defiles, or treading over corn shoots or the
luxurious growth of the greensward, to meet each other.
What is their object! They are inflamed with the desire,
and nerved with the purpose, to butcher one another.
u Yet a little while, and hideous slaughter shall rage
around, and mar the beauteous prospect. ’Tis but an hour
which stands between the lives of thousands and eternity.
Oh, what a change shall hasty, ruthless death make in yon
glittering plain !
<t Oh thou foul monster War, that in a moment layest
waste the noblest part of creation, the boast and master¬
piece of the Great Maker.
“ Think of it! Those gathered hosts on either side have
never met before. Never before this fatal hour have they
so much as seen each other, still less exchanged a word in
anger or in amity. Kindness or unkindness there is none
between these mustered hosts of living, breathing, ardent,
palpitating men.
“ As far as they are individually and personally concerned,
they are passionless. Take one of these men from either of
these confronting armies, soon to unite in the death-dealing
clash of arms, and anywhere away from that enchanted field,
if he saw a man of the opposing host menaced by danger
of an imminent kind he would, forgetful of his own safety,
peril his life to save him.
“ If the one saw the other buffeting with the waters of a
torrent, he would rush in to pluck him out, or perish in the
attempt.
“ And who are these who are sent by tens of thousands to
the field to kill and be killed ?
“ Take one from either host, and subject him to examina¬
tion. You will find him the noblest of all known created
beings—a creature fearfully and wonderfully made—a being
in whose presence you would stand in awe, but for your
familiarity with the dread attributes of the lofty species to
which he belongs.
“ What prayers have been breathed to a merciful God for
his continued safety ! What groans and anguish will not
his fall occasion to the Rachel left weeping because he
is not.
“ He has a soul with precisely the same faculties as those
possessed by a David, a Daniel, or a Paul, a Newton, a Milton,
a Bacon, or a Locke.
“ The soul which animates that body, which, in a few short
hours, will be left a mutilated carcase, amidst the indis¬
tinguishable dead upon the battlefield, is as precious and
indestructible as any soul that ever left a body on earth to
be embalmed in Oriental spices, entombed in polished marble,
and wept over by mourning thousands.
“Who can contemplate the destruction of one such being
without a pang ? We should feel indignant if we saw a steam
engine wantonly crushed or driven over a precipice. We
should see with regret a clock or some sweet musical instru¬
ment wantonly destroyed. But what is the destruction of a
piece of soulless, unreflecting, mechanism—a thing of cogs,
and wheels, and springs, and pulleys—or of an instrument all
unconscious of the melody of the tones which may be drawn
from it—a thing that feels not, thinks not, loves not, hates
1 \ i not, worships not—to the living, conscious, thinking, hoping,
206
Nov. 1, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
fearing, trembling, rejoicing piece of human mechanism, ||
the matchless workmanship of the Divine hand ?
“A crystal is a beautiful product of nature’s chemistry, j j
Reduce it to its elements, and, with some care and trouble, j j
you may hope to reproduce it; but where is the synthesis that j j’
can reproduce the creature man, if you once destroy him ? j j
Well might the almost inspired bard make Othello say, when j j
about to take the life of his wife— | j
iC 1 Put out the light ? j !
If I quench thee, thou flaming minister, j j
I can again thy former light restore | j i
Should I repent me :—but once put out thy light, j I
Thou cunning’st pattern of excelling nature, j j j
I know not where is that Promethean heat j j
That oan thy light relume.’ ” |
SPIRITS AND MEDIUMS.
From “ The Banner of Light'' j j
The sensitives among us, who are from time to time j
selected by the overruling powers to perform the essential |
service of furnishing channels through which communication j
is to be kept up between the spirit world and the mortal, are j
of necessity obliged to submit to the burden imposed by their j
task, without regard to any preference of their own. It no |
doubt has often seemed hard, if not inconsistent, that a refined j (
medium, whose office apparently ought to be only for the j |
good and beautiful spirits who have gone hence, should have to j >
become the vehicle for the conveyance of the thoughts and j
feelings of dark and unprogressed spirits, with whom such a j
medium would never have dreamed of holding any associa- j
tion on the earth-plane; but a little patient reflection will j
serve to clear away many of the questions that hang around j
the subject, and ultimately convince us that it is strictly |
according to the divine order, and in perfect harmony with i j
the arrangement of human affairs as they are to be seen j
around us. We are likewise naturally apt to think that it is j
injurious to a medium’s organisation to be controlled by j
undeveloped spirits equally with the bright ones. That may j
he said to come in a great measure from our present social j i
habits and prejudices, which are too apt to govern our modes j j
of thinking, and to supply us, in fact, with the staple of our | I
thought itself.
It is unquestionably true that a sensitive may be put to j |
more or less suffering for the time by the control of spirits | j
when not yet fully in the mesmeric power of the true spirit- j
guides. The latter must needs have obtained perfect posses- ! 11
sion of the medium before that medium can with safety be j j j
entrusted to do the service of any and all classes of spirits, j I
It is manifestly for these guides to determine the when, the j j
how, and the how much. They have the medium in their 111
sacred and safe keeping. And until they can be said to have | j |
taken complete mesmeric control, it is unquestionably j |
possible for a certain class of spirits to work more or less I (j
harm on the medium. After the guides, however, have taken ! |
perfect possession, they area permanent guarantee against j
all danger and harm. It is only as they form a protective j !
circle, so to speak, around the medium, and offer their j |
guardianship, that spirits of every kind can be permitted to j
communicate with mortals, and to the benefit of both. This j I
is the secret and soul of the whole system of spirit guides, !
without which our mediums would be at the mercy of i
influences that might eventually destroy them as the means j
of spiritual usefulness. I
Instead of harm, visible good is often done the mediums j
by the unprogressed and rude spirits which the guides dis- j
creetly permit to make use of their organisations. Such |
serve to administer a needed shock of health to the physical j
organism so controlled, which enables it to proceed more j 1 j
vigorously with its work. We are always to remember that j 1 j
we are formed to dwell continually in the kingdom of uses, j [ I
that our only real life consists in service; and hence that 111
medium ship has not been given for the gratification of our ! |
more refined tastes merely, or for aesthetic purposes, or to j
enable us to revel in the luxurious delights of spiritual 11 j
speculations. The purpose of the invisible world is to c
develop the germ of what is good and holy in every human | j j
heart, to lift up the entire human race to a higher level, to I
draw individuals nearer to one another in the bonds of sympathy, | |
and to gradually change the human into the angelic. Yet i 1 ^
all this is to be done only by what we regard as mortal means,
and through processes which may oftentimes challenge our
confidence and faith. The undeveloped spirits must be
allowed to come equally with their opposites. Every grade
and condition, on this side of the veil and that, must be
afforded an opportunity to enjoy the privilege of communion,
since what is an affectional blessing to the refined spirit-
intelligence, cannot do else than prove an uplifting benefit to
the unprogressed.
The angel-guide.s who encircle the medium understand far
better than any of us can the necessity of reaching the poor
and lowly, the outcast and degraded, the sad and despairing ;
and this must be done in precisely the same way, though by
means of a different order of spirits, as that by which the
cultured and refined, the intellectual and progressed on the
earth-plane, are reached and influenced. The law which
operates is the same for both. There is no respect of persons
or conditions. And as the unseen intelligences are ready
and willing to extend loving assistance to us in the midst of
our trials and tribulations on earth, so ought we to be ready
and willing to extend our sympathy and assistance to others
not so much favoured as we are, and likewise to ask them to go
with us and help us perform this grateful work. In no way
can we do so much as by rallying around our mediums, and
giving them our strength and protection. We must guard them
as a sacred trust, if we would see the work done which it is
given them to do among us. Above all, we are never to
repel with reproof or rudeness the undeveloped spirits who
only obey a natural law in their return. Our duty is to deal
with them as kindly as we should with the unfortunate ones
in earth life, of whom we see so many every day around us.
THE PAST REVEALED.
I have made up my mind to lay before the readers of the
Sun a queer experience. I shall simply tell the story, with¬
out attempting to explain it.
Some years ago, a neighbour of mine, going home from
his store, found his wife dead on the kitchen floor, her throat
cut from ear to ear. She had been in low spirits for several
weeks, and it was at first supposed to be a suicide, but the
finding of several indentations in the skull, evidently made
by a club, showed that it was a murder. A poor paralytic
vagrant, to whom the woman had been a generous friend,
was arrested, convicted on circumstantial evidence, and
hanged. Between the sentence and the hanging I often
visited him in prison, became convinced of his innocence,
and, with others, tried hard to save him. One day, after it
was plain that no commutation or pardon was to be hoped
for, a thought came into my mind which I am certain I did
not then or afterwards utter to any person. It was this:
“ It is wrong that this poor fellow should suffer a painful
death for a crime that he could not have committed. I will
procure a small bottle of chloroform or a few grains of
strychnine and give it to his relatives to be conveyed to him.
Then he will escape this dreadful death of hanging.” The
thought was but a momentary one, dismissed with horror
upon an instant’s reflection. The man was hanged, as I
said. With his last breath he declared his innocence.
Some time ago I was sitting in the parlour of the Astor
House. I noticed a very elegant woman of middle age,
whom I had never seen before, gazing at me with a look
like that of a sleep-walker. Thinking she was desirous of
looking out of the window at which I was seated, I was
about to move away, when she said :— •
“ Do not let me disturb you. I only came to tell you
there is a spirit here, that of a man in whom you once
kindly interested yourself during his unhappy earth-life.
His name is . You remember him, do you not ? He
was executed for murder in your city, and you visited him
in prison.”
“I remember,” was my reply. “What has he to say to
me? ”
“ He says that he was innocent of the crime for which he
died, although guilty of other offences that deserved punish¬
ment.”
“ Now,” asked I, “ can the spirit repeat to me any part
of our talk to satisfy me that it is really he ? ”
“ Do you remember,” said the medium, “a thought you
Noy. 1, 18/8.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
207
had while in the prison ? For a moment you half resolved
to convey to him enough strychnine or chloroform to put
him out of his misery.”
Astounded beyond measure, I rose from my seat, and,
after thanking the lady, went straight to the clerk of the
hotel. All he could tell me about her was that she was
from Oregon, had arrived the night before, and was to leave
on the next Boston train.
I am certain, I say again, that I had never spoken of that
impulse to man or woman. How did she know it ?—Nero
York Sun.
THE GROWING INFLUENCE OF SPIRITUALISM.
You don’t know what a plague has fallen on the prac¬
titioners of theology ? I will tell you, then. It is Spirit¬
ualism. While some are crying out against it as a delusion
of the Devil, and some are laughing at it as an hysteric
folly, and some are getting angry with it as a mere trick of
interested or mischievous persons, Spiritualism is quietly
undermining the traditional ideas of the future state which
have been and are still accepted—not merely in those who
believe in it, but in the general sentiment of the community,
to a larger extent than most good people seem to be aware
of. It needn’t be true, to do this, any more than homoeo¬
pathy need to do its work. The Spiritualists have some
pretty strong instincts to pry over, which no doubt have
been roughly handled by theologians at different times.
And the Nemesis of the pulpit comes in a shape it little
thought of, beginning with the snap of a toe-joint and
ending with such a crack of old beliefs that the roar of it is
heard in all the ministers’ studies of Christendom! Sir,
you cannot have people of cultivation, of pure character,
sensible enough in common things, large-hearted women,
grave judges, shrewd business men, men of science, pro¬
fessing to be in communication with the spiritual world, and
keeping up constant intercourse with it, without its gradually
reacting on the whole conception of that other life. It is
the folly of the world, constantly, which confounds its wis¬
dom.—Atlantic Monthly.
A SPIRIT SEEN SIMULTANEOUSLY BY TWO PERSONS.
The following incident is published in The Religio-Philo¬
sophical Journal of Chicago, of October 12th last: About
a year ago my daughter, Mrs. Eliza C. Medsker, was visiting
her sister in Shelby county, Indiana. She slept in a bedroom
adjoining the one occupied by her sister and husband. Her
niece,alittlegirltwelveyearsold,wassleepingwithher. About
midnight they awoke; the door leading out on the back
porch, and which had been closed on retiring, was open, and
the form of Mrs. Williams, a lady who had died some two
years previously, and who had been an intimate friend of
my daughter for several years, stood beside the bed, beauti¬
fully dressed in .white, with her arms outstretched as if
wishing to shake hands. At length she moved slowly away,
and passed slowly round the other side of the bed ; standing
a few moments, she walked back to her first position. This
she repeated several times, placing her hand on the bed, and
gazing earnestly at my daughter, manifesting an anxiety to
speak. Mustering sufficient courage, my daughter spoke to
her little niece, and asked if she saw her. She answered
yes, and that she had been awake all the time watching her
movements. Scarcely daring to move, they gently drew the
bed-covering over their faces to hide the spectre from their
view. After lying in this position for some time they
ventured to remove the cover, and she was still standing by
the bedside gazing upon them as before. My daughter
called to her brother-in-law, told him that Mrs. Williams
was in the room, and entreated him to come to them.
Thinking she had just waked from a dream, he replied that
they need have no fear; it was all imagination. They
assured him they could not be mistaken; she was before
them as plainly visible as in natural life. After parleying
in this manner for some time, the spirit visitor walked to¬
wards the open door and disappeared. S. H. De Forest.
Next Sunday evening Major Forster will give his last address at
Doughty Hall, London, before leaving for the provinces for a month
or two.
CLAIRVOYANCE TESTED.
BY J. M. PEEBLES, M.D.
While spending a few days recently in the pleasant home of Mr.
Charles N. Murdock, a well-to-do farmer, holding several responsible
public offices in the town and county, I was permitted to witness the
spiritual gifts of his wife, Mrs. Lutie Blair Murdock, a lady whose
reputation as a spirit-artist is in every respect a most enviable one.
While painting, she is entranced unconsciously by the lively, social
Pale Lily.- This controlling Indian spirit talks almost constantly while
the unseen Italian artist does the work.
Responsible Spiritualists had frequently told me of her painting while
her eyes were tightly bandaged, painting with a newspaper tied over her
face and eyes, painting with persons holding her eyelids down With their
fingers, and painting in public with the eyes thoroughly blindfolded by
committees selected from the audiences. I did not doubt all this—no
one could, knowing Mrs. Murdock, Mr. Murdock, and thousands whose
testimonies are absolutely unimpeachable; still, Heaven pardon my
inborn scepticism, I wanted to test her artistic powers myself, wanted
to carefully bandage her eyes myself, and then place my own hands over
them while the work was being done. There was not the least objection
raised.
It was a beautiful October day—8th of the month—eleven o’clock in
the forenoon, clear and sunny as early summer-time, that in broad day¬
light—present, Mr. Murdock and Mrs. Libbey, an estimable lady of
Salem, Mass.—I laid some closely-fitting linen eye-bandages, sixteen
thicknesses, over the eyes, extending down the sides of the nose to the
mouth. Over these I put a handkerchief of several folds, tying it
tightly behind the head ; and I also put a bit of tape over and
around the upper lip, holding down the protruding ends of the eye-
bandages. This was also firmly tied. In fact, all of the upper part
of the face was completely covered save the nostrils, for breathing.
Before us were bristol-board, brushes, and unmixed paints. I now
stepped behind the medium, and placing my hands over the eye-
bandages and pressing down heavily upon the eyes, the controlling
spirit artist commenced the work; and in about eighteen or twenty
minutes (an almost incredible space of time) from the moment he began
to manipulate and mix his paints, he produced, without a single re¬
touching of the brush, a most exquisite bouquet of grasses, grains,
buds, roses, and other beautiful flowers, all symbolising some of the
leading events in my life. It was a perfect success—a modern marvel
in proof of Spiritualism. And I insist that no candid and intelligent
man, no truth-seeking mortal with a modicum of common-sense, can
witness this, the trances, and the other spiritual manifestations fre¬
quently occurring through the sensitive organism of Mrs. Murdock, and
doubt the open door, doubt the certainty, of converse between spirits
and mortals.—Banner of Light.
In accordance with the notice published last week, several thousands
of copies of The Spiritualist have since been sent to different parts of the
United Kingdom for free distribution. Some effect upon the public
mind should be the result.
To speak the truth and perform good offices are two things that
resemble God Everyman ought to speak and act with such perfect
integrity that no man could have reason to doubt his simple affirmation.
—Pythagoras.
Last Wednesday night Mr. J. J. Morse delivered a trance lecture
before a public audience in the ancient city of Chester, a place abound¬
ing in material relics indicating the reality of spiritual influx in
centuries long gone by, and now awaking to the knowledge that such
influx is not a myth.
Spiritualism in Devonshire.—While Spiritualism was spreading
with rapidity in Lancashire, Yorkshire, and the North, it seemed
utterly incompetent to take root in South Western districts. What¬
ever the cause may have been, it is removed so far as the beautiful
county of Devon is concerned. We possess information that it has
taken root in at least six Devonshire towns, and that in one of them
mediums are multiplying.
The Growth of Spiritualism.—Four of the most distinguished
scientists of Germany, after giving the subject careful and thorough
investigation, have publicly avowed their conversion to Spiritualism.
Zollner is the author of many scientific works, and is a leading physicist
and astronomer in one of the great universities. Fechner is world-
renowned as a natural philosopher, and is professor of physics at
Leipzig. Scheibner is a very distinguished professor of mathematics,
and Weber is noted for his profound researches in electricity. They
were all prejudiced against Spiritualism. Their course will have immense
influence in stimulating investigation by scientific men in all parts of
Europe, and investigation is certain to largely increase the number of
Spiritualists.—Baltimore Standard.
Ministering Spirits Outside the Churches.—What shall you say
of the vitality in that church which, with its many-pointed fingers
toward heaven, still refuses admission to the spirit of truth in any form
of angelic administration to-day, and turns aside from the very open
gateway that leads to its own interpretation and its own foundation ? . .
. . But that other and broader church which is alive in the world, has
it not been heralded by the spirit of human brotherhood ? Has it not
been announced by the tokens and signs that have been in the sky ?
Has not the voice of prophecy and inspiration foretold it, and are not
gifts being poured out upon all flesh, as they were promised ? Are not
these the latter days of the kingdom of Christ, and is not this spirit of
truth approaching, this Comforter that revealeth all things? Aud those
who have ears to hear, do they not hear the voice of the spirit; those
who have eyes, do they not see visions of the spiritual realm ; those who
have understanding, do they not comprehend the angelic states which He
beyond?—Spirit Message through the rnediumship of Mrs. Cora L. V,
Richmond.
208
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 1, 1878.
AN HOUR WITH PROFESSOR ZOLLNER.
Mr. D. LymaNj of Washington, Secretary to the United
States’ Treasury, was recently travelling in Europe, and
when in Paris gave us some interesting information about
Spiritualism in America, The following letter from him
has been published in the Banner of Light:—
To the Editor of the li Banner of Light."
Sir,—A brief furlough from my official duties in Wash¬
ington, and certain business engagements, combined to
bring me, nearly three weeks ago, to the old town of
Bremen on the Wesser, famous in mediaeval times as one
of the Hanse Towns. My feet being once on German soil,
I determined to make the most of my little holiday, and I
went on to Hamburg and thence to Berlin. The express
train from Berlin delivers one safely at Leipsic in about four
hours. Thence a trip of two and a half hours more brings
one to Weimar; whence by another trip of six hours one
reaches Frankfort-on-the-Maine. When at Frankfort one
is tempted, even though bent on reaching Paris and the
Exposition, to go down the Rhine by a day-boat from
Mayence to this old city of Cologne, an excursion which one
can make between nine o’clock in the morning and six in
the evening : though in order to reach Mayence (or Mainz)
by nine, one must take the train from Frankfort at eight
o’clock. My little tour has taken me through all the places
named in a little more than three weeks. And Professor
Zollner was the attraction that led me to forego the express
train direct from Berlin to Paris, and diverge so far from
the ordinary line of travel.
On arriving in Leipsic on Tuesday last, I failed during
that day to find him. The mystery of hunting up a resi¬
dent, who has recently changed apartments, in a German
city, is something akin to a search for one of the lost arts.
{Since Hr. Slade was in Leipsic, Professor Zollner has re¬
moved from the Postamt to Gellert-street, where a suite of
rooms gives him a pleasant outlook over the Museum and
Theatre, and the shaded promenade that encloses what was
once the whole of Leipsic. It is well that one whose soul
is full of light should himself be surrounded by all that is
suggestive of quiet and delightful studies.
My note of Tuesday, I found, on calling directly at his
door the next morning, had been received, and he gave me
a frank and hearty welcome. Of course, one object of my
visit was to hear from himself about the knots tied on the
continuous line of a string when the two ends were firmly
sealed to paper or wood. He produced the original, and
described in what manner the feat was performed—I mean
in so far as the agency of Slade and himself was concerned.
There was no possibility of any mistake by himself of the
reality of the performance, nor was there any possibility of
any direct agency on the part of Slade in making the knots.
I did not ask the Professor for any explanation of his theory
of a fourth dimension of space, as it would have been a
severe task for him to attempt to explain it in English.
And, indeed, I think the theory only declares the subject—a
fourth dimension of space being to me more intelligible
than the passage of matter through matter, or a temporary
suspension, along certain lines, of the force of cohesion.
But the theory of a fourth dimension of space, if put for¬
ward by a person of some scientific 'prestige^ is perhaps just
what is needed to draw the attention of German thinkers to
the reality of spiritual phenomena. It seems to me that
nowhere on earth is disbelief among thinking men in the
reality of any life after death so absolute and complete as
in Germany. Within the circle of the communicants of the
Protestant and Catholic Churches faith in a future life still
lingers, but only as the result of traditional teaching.
Among scientific men it is utterly gone.
The Professor not only exhibited to me the original
knotted string, but others,, which being so cut from a sub¬
stance as to be continuous, still were knotted upon themselves.
But the crowning exhibit to me was a little stand, the top
of which was supported by a single shaft branching at the
bottom into a tripod, or three separate feet. On the shaft,
just above the feet, were two wooden rings of continuous
material, too small to rise above the swell of the shaft, and,
of course, too small to be passed over the three feet. The
|| Professor told me that when these rings were put on, Slade
and himself sat side by side at a larger table, and the stand
| was laid down beneath the table on the side opposite to that
I on which they were sitting. The rings were, I believe, on
the floor. After sitting a few moments, they were both
I surprised by seeing the stand float from behind, them over
| to its original position, with the rings around the shaft, as
they are now to be seen. These phenomena the Professor
| well calls permanent facts, remaining over to attest a
| spiritual agency after that agency has ceased to be exerted.
He gave me good photographs of all the knotted strings,
I \. | and of the little table with the rings around the supporting
j)i shaft. They are also reproduced in the third volume of his
| Scientific Treatises ( Wissenshaftliche Abhandlungeri), a com-
| plete copy of which I have had invoiced to America by a
| Leipsic bookseller.
I A glance at the Professor’s library is sufficient to indicate
| the wide range of his sympathies and studies. Though by
| position and profession a strictly scientific man, I was pleased
I I to see on his shelves the works of Plato, Kant, Lessing,
| | Bishop Berkeley, Voltaire, side by side with those of Newton,
(j Faraday, Tynd'all, Huxley, Herbert Spencer, Helmholtz,
I and Haeckel. Fine portraits of Newton, Faraday, and
11 eminent musicians hang from the walls of his rooms, and
j he especially rejoices in an American melodeon, which gave
| forth exquisite melodies under his skilful touch.
I did not inquire to what extent the reality of the spiritual
| phenomena is recognised among his acquaintances; but he
(j seemed to speak as if he had no doubt of the triumph of the
|) | great new truths which we call spiritual. At all events, to
I \ | himself they are a treasure and a delight, and long may he
ij live to aid in their dissemination. I need not say that our
| interview, on my part, closed with regret, as being one not
I likely to recur while we live; but I shall ever remember his
j hearty bon voyage.
Within three weeks I have, at Sans-Souci, in Potsdam,
| been in a room where Voltaire hobnobbed with Old Fritz ;
| in apartments where Goethe enjoyed his social chats with
I the Dukes of Weimar; and in the home of Schiller, in the
|) | very rooih in which his grand soul cast off the encumbering
I weight of the body. It cannot but be that these men who
| | did so much to free their fellows from mental slavery are
| | now aiding us in opening up to the world the knowledge
<! that this life is but the embryo of a state inconceivably
|) | higher and better than aught we can imagine. And sadly
j) | does the world need this knowledge. Of all enemies to
Ij human progress superstition is the most formidable. I took
| occasion on this Sunday to visit the church of St. Ursula,
| who is reputed to have been martyred here with eleven
| thousand virgins, whose bones are said to have been gathered
I up and enclosed in the walls of the church and of its interior
I chapels. However it may be about the martyrdom and the
I number of virgins who were victims, certain it is that out-
I side of the catacombs of Rome and Paris nowhere else can
\ j such quantities of human bones be found gathered as here
i in the old church of St. Ursula. Think of walls twenty feet high
| and as many long being wrought into cases, and covered with
| glass like windows, studded with the bones of arms and legs
| arranged in all manner of devices; skulls packed away by
| the thousand, each separated from the other by its separate
| pane of glass, and every one adorned with some ornament
H to commemorate the sanctity of its original owner. Here is
I a sacred tooth of St. Ursula, here her holy foot, and there
i her consecrated cranium. The young priest who took me
I through the church showed me a vase which, he gravely told
| me, was one of the four now left, which were used at the
i' | wedding in Cana of Galilee. I was very glad to see it. I
| had had fears that they were all lost. But what mental
| state must that part of mankind be in that can find anything
| sacred in such objects? How many thousand Voltaires are
I yet needed to drive the ploughshare of free thought through
| these foul and hoary misbeliefs, and open enslaved souls to
I the light of truths that are eternal ? I send you my fraternal
j greeting across the wastes of ocean. D. Lyman.
I Cologne, Rhenish Prussia, Sept. 22nd, 1878.
I M. Alexandbe Aksakoe, of St. Petersburg, is now in Paris.
The spirit of Webster came to a spiritual medium not long since, and
i wrote on a slip of paper, “ It is tite times.”—Court Journal,
N6v. 1, 1878.
209
THE SPIIUTIJ ALIST.
PROFESSOR ZOLLNER’S EXPERIMENTS WITH j
DR. SLADE. |
The Spiritual Reporter, of Manchester,* publishes the !
following extracts from a work by Herr Friedrich Zollner, |
Professor of Physical Astronpmy at Leipsic University, |
translated from the German by Esther Becker:— j
The Professor being anxious to see more of the temporary j
disappearance of objects, a sitting was held May 5th, at 11 I
a.m., at which the following extraordinary phenomena took j
place. . j
“ Ready immediately for a trial, Slade asked Mr. Yon j
Hoffmann to give him some book, and latter took an octavo j
volume from the little bookshelf against the wall. Slade j
laid it upon the slate, held the slate under the edge of the j
table, and immediately drew the slate out without the book, j
We searched the card table thoroughly, inside and out, the I
little room was also searched, but all in vain, the book had j
vanished. After about five minutes we took our places again I
at the table, with a view to further manifestations. Slade j
opposite to me, Yon Hoffmann between us to my left. We
had scarcely sat down when the book fell down on to the
table from the ceiling of the room, giving my right ear a
sharp rap as it passed. The direction in which it came
appeared to be an oblique one, from a point above. Slade
while this happened was sitting before me with both his
hands quietly on the table. In our next morning’s seance, |
in clear sunshine, I was destined to be the witness, quite un- j
expectedly and without preparation, of a much more striking j
manifestation of this kind. I bad taken my place as usual
with Slade at the card table, opposite to me stood, as had
often been the case in other experiments, a small round
table near the card table. The height of the round table j
was 77 centimeters, the diameter of the top 46 centimeters,
the material is birchwood, and the weight is 4*5 kilogrammes, j
Perhaps a minute might have elapsed after Slade and I had j
seated ourselves and laid our joined hands on the table, when I
the round table began to make slow swaying movements, j
which we both plainly saw by its round top, the lower part |
of it being hidden from us by the top of the card table ; it j
laid itself down under it, with its three feet turned towards j
me. Slade appeared equally ignorant with myself as to j
what we had to expect, and for about a minute nothing j
further took place. Slade was just about to resort to the j
slate in order to ask the £ spirits’ what else was going to j
happen, when I thought I would examine more particularly
the position of the table lying under the card table. To my |
own and Slade’s great astonishment we found the space |
under the card table quite empty, and the table, which a i
minute before we had present to our senses, was not to be j
found anywhere in the room. In the expectation of its re- j
appearance we sat down again at the card table, Slade close j
by my side at the side of the table opposite to that in the I
neighbourhood of which the round table had stood. We
had been sitting perhaps five or six minutes in breathless 11
anticipation of what might be about to happen, when j
suddenly Slade again affirmed that he saw lights in the air. j
Although I, as usual, could see nothing of them, I yet in- i
voluntarily followed with my eyes the directions in which j
Slade’s head kept turning, our hands still lying as before on |
the table, and my left leg almost constantly touching Slade’s |
right leg in its whole extension, as naturally followed from j
our both sitting on the same side of the table ; Slade, still I
looking upwards in different directions with growing asto- !
nishment and expectation, asked me if I did not see the j
great lights. I answered decidedly in the negative, but j
raising my head in the direction of Slade’s looks towards the j
ceiling of the room, behind my back, I suddenly saw, at a
height of about five feet, floating down on to the surface of j
the card table the hitherto missing table, with its legs j I
turned upwards. Although we involuntarily, to avoid being j J
hurt by the falling table, moved our heads to one side, Slade j ]
to the left and I to the right, we were yet both so smartly j1
hit on the side of the head before the round table settled on j!
the card table that I felt the pain fully four hours after it I
occurred.
“ On May 3rd, 1878, during a seance in which Herr 0. !
Yon Hoffmann took part besides myself, among other
objects there lay two snail shells on the table.” (The pro¬
fessor had bought the snail shells at the Leipsic fair in the
morning, and they had never been touched by Slade.) *l The
smaller snail shell belonged to a species common with us;
the larger, according to the account of the dealer, to a
species found on the coast of the Mediterranean, the name of
which he wrote for me as Capo Turbus (probably the Latin
may be Caput Turbo). The nearly circular opening of this
shell was about 43 millimeters, while that of the smaller
shell was only 32 millimeters at its greatest diameter. I
had, without any special object, placed the larger one over
the smaller, so that the smaller was completely hidden by
it. As Slade now held a slate in the usual way under the
edge of the table, to receive writing upon it, suddenly a
sound was heard as though a hard body had fallen upon it.
On the slate being irnmediately drawn out to look at, the
smaller shell, which I had one minute before covered as
described with the larger, lay upon it. As both shells had
lain on the table untouched, almost in the exact middle of
the table, and constantly under my observation, the pheno¬
menon of the passage of matter through matter received a
startling and quite unexpected physical confirmation.
u While reserving for my third. volume the description of
many other phenomena of this nature, I must yet mention
here a very remarkable circumstance. Immediately upon
Slade’s drawing out the slate with the shell upon it I seized
it to see if any change had taken place in it. I almost let
it fall again—so hot had it become. I immediately handed
it to my friend, who confirmed the fact of the heightened
temperature ; this phenomenon, taken in connection with a
circumstance connected with a succeeding experiment is, I
think, of scientific weight.”
Government Aid to Original Research.—Mr.. R. A. Proctor thus
answers in the Times some utterances of Professor E. Ray Lankester
about State aid to Science:—“ The scientific deterioration which Mr.
Lankester admits and deplores may, I think, be confidently denied.
Our men of science, our Herschels, Lyells, Darwins, Spencers, Tyndalls,
Carpenters, Huxleys, and the rest (I take simply the first names which
occur to me), do unquestionably publish their results more freely and
more quickly than the scientific men of former generations. This is not,
however, because they are less disposed to long-continued research and
study, or less willing to weigh all the evidence available. On the con¬
trary, it is in the main because they know that such a course is precisely
the one by which false theories and erroneous’ views will most readily
be eliminated. Not a few of the mistaken views which in former ages
were long adopted and taught owed their temporary vitality only to the
circumstance that they were not in good time brought into the light and
thoroughly ventilated. Moreover, the caution shown by men of science
in former times was notoriously due in great part to a somewhat con¬
temptible anxiety about priority. In this respect assuredly the tone of
scientific thought in our own time has not deteriorated. The particular
illustrations selected by Mr. Lankester are unfortunate. Faraday was
enabled to make his researches by the support of an institution wholly
voluntary in its origin and maintenance, and wholly independent of the
State. In that voluntarily-supported institution more has been done
for the advancement of science than in any State-supported institution
that can be named. As to Darwin, I would ask what would have been
the present position of Darwin researches had he been dependent oa a
Minister of Science, however lavishly such a Minister might have been
supplied with funds for the endowment of research. Whether such a
Minister had depended on his own judgment, or had been aided by the
judgment of naturalists five-and-twenty years ago, he would never have
dared to afford Darwin the means necessary for carrying on his
researches. An application for such assistance would have been re¬
jected twenty-five years ago, alike by the political and the scientific
world, with all but universal derision. The present attitude of the
public mind towards the views of our great naturalist is due in great
part, no doubt, to the soundness of his methods, the wide range of his
researches and observations, the care and caution of his reasoning ; but
in the main it is assuredly due to his skill in presenting his subject to
the general public—in other words, it is due to the process of popu¬
larisation which Mr. Lankester deems so mischievous. And as in this
special case the only chance of State endowment would have resided in
that weight of public opinion which popularisation has since brought to
bear, so generally, if science enters ‘ the pleasant paths of endowment,’
she will owe that result not to the caprice of a Minister or of a party,
but to public opinion influenced by the popularisation of science. For
my own part, I must confess I dread such a result rather than hope for
it, believing that, as Alphonse Decandolle said four or five years since,
the great danger for science in England at present is the increasing
tendency of scientific men to lean on the State. We know what hap¬
pened to literature in France under the burden (for such it really was)
of State aid. No true lover of science can wish that she should in a
similar way be trammelled by State restrictions under the guise of State
assistance.” What chance is there that a Government office would now
aid psychological research ?
* Published at 153, Mottram-road, Hyde, Manchester.
A SPIRITUALISTIC MEETING AT LANGHAM HALL.
On Thursday, last week, a public( meeting, convened by Mr. Enmore
Jones, was held at the Langham Hall, Great Portland-street, London,
to meet Mr. D. D. Home and Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken. In accordance
with his previous announcement, Mr. Jones took the chair. The hall
was about half full at the beginning of the proceedings, and three-
quarters full towards the close. Among the listeners were the Rev. Dr.
Irons, Canon of St. Paul’s Cathedral, and M. Gustave de Veh, of
Dresden.
Mr. Enmore Jones said that Mr. Home, who had been his guest
during his visit to England, was so ill that a few days previously a
not press him to attend that meeting. It was the intention of Mr.
Home to leave for Paris in a few days. He had a love for Mr. Home,
of whom he had seen much; he had never heard him say an improper
word, or known him to do an improper action. The work done in the
. world by Mr. Home had been true and mighty, and he hoped that the
phenomena produced through his mediumship would be testified to that
evening by those who had seen them. Mrs. Jencken had promised to
be present that evening, but ladies were not always punctual.
Here, at the request of Mr. Jones, a portion of the Te Deum was sung
by the audience.
Mr. Enmore Jones continued that some time ago, when he was very
ill, Mr. Home attended him with all kindness, night and day, and proved
a son to him indeed. Afterwards they went to Tunbridge Wells, and
in the course of a sitting there, held in the light, a fleshly living arm
formed in the air, while Mr. Home’s hands and arms were in sight;
the materialised hand struck him on the hand three times, thus appeal¬
ing to the three senses of touch, sight, and hearing.
Mr. Thomas Shorter and Major Forster then addressed the meeting,
at the invitation of Mr. E. Jones. Major Forster announced that his
conversion to Spiritualism was largely due to some of the earlier
manifestations he had witnessed in America, in the presence of Miss
Kate Fox, now Mrs. Jencken.
The Chairman then gave out the following hymn, entitled Angel
Friends, which was sung by the audience :—
Floating on the breath of evening,
Breathing in the morning air;
Hear we oft the tender voices
That once made our world so fair.
We forget while listening to them
All the sorrow we have known;
And upon the trials present,
Faith’s pure shining light is thrown.
Soothing with their magic whispers,
Calming all our wildest fears;
Thus they bring us sweet submission,
Peace for sorrow, smiles for tears.
Bless you, angel friends, oh, never
Leave us lonely on our way;
For your gentle teachings ever
Meekly may we watch and pray.
Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken, who had entered the hall during the pro¬
ceedings, was here escorted by the chairman to the platform, amid warm
applause. Loud spirit raps, which were heard all over the hall, occurred
near her occasionally throughout the evening.
The Chairman next invited Dr. Carter Blake to address the meeting.
Dr. Carter Blake said that the topic he had to speak on, that of the
present of Spiritualism, was as vague as that in the old picture which
used to appear over the leading article of a paper called the Tunes
about twenty-two years ago, when he was first investigating the subject.
There was the closed book of the past and the future, and the open book,
with its scattered leaves, of the present. The words of the hymn by
Dr. Newman which had been sung, however, exactly pitched his key¬
note—
u Keep thou my feet; I do not ask to see
The distant scene ; one step enough for me.”
He had no desire to intrude on the mysteries of le grand peut-etre, on
which he could say nothing, and was content with such positive know¬
ledge as could be acquired. Spiritualism, like all other sciences, must
pass through the intellectual stages indicated by Comte. First, we had
the theological stage, in which every event which was singular was
charged to the account of a Deity, or referred to the action of some
supernatural being ; secondly, the metaphysical stage, in which forces
were imagined to perform certain functions, though the dimensions of
such force varied in inverse ratio to the increase of knowledge; and
thirdly, the positive stage, in which experiment and science would simply
record the facts to which some future philosopher might assign a cause.
We were rapidly moving in Spiritualism towards the third of these
divisions, and away from the first. As a science like this had to pursue,
like all others, an orderly career, so the Spiritualism of the present was
in advance of that of the past generation, by reason of the series of
accurate facts which, for example, Mr. Cookes, F.R.S., had accumu¬
lated respecting the genuine psychic powers of Mr. Home, and others
on repeated occasions had brought to bear on the frequent and genuine
phenomena shown by Mrs. Fox-Jencken. [Here violent raps were
heard from the part of the platform near Mrs. Jencken.] Those raps
were, in their nature, of unknown origin so far as regards the modus
operandi, and they were well worthy of investigation. The scientific
man, even though the objects of his investigation may seem trivial,
might possibly reap as great a reward as did John Hunter when, after
years of experiment on the insignificant surface-veins of a mangy stag in
his backyard, he developed an operation for the cure of aneurism, which
had since saved thousands of human lives. And as the modern
astronomy was evolved from astrology, as the modern chemistry was the
outcome of the alchemy of the middle ages, so Spiritualism (as a branch
of the greater science of Theosophy) was beginning to cast off the coats
of its earlier chrysalidan youth. The present state of the science was
therefore an augury of the future, and so long as Spiritualists went
cautiously, and pulled together with one strong slow tug, their boat
would inevitably reach the goal in advance of the leaky craft of the
Materialists. Above all, the scientific man, who was the “ sworn inter¬
preter of Nature,’’ had nothing to fear from any results which might be
associated with his teaching, or any superfluous theories which might
encrust it, as the shell of a limpet was often covered with barnacles.
The limpet had its own function to perform, which we might imitate,
to stick fast to the rock.
Mr. Enmore Jones then asked Mr. Humphreys to speak.
Mr. H. T. Humphreys said that Spiritualism should be pursued in a
religious spirit, otherwise there might be some possibihty that in idly
encouraging the lower manifestations, they were practising the necro¬
mancy condemned in the Scriptures. He did not advance this idea
dogmatically, but as his individual opinion.
The hymn Lead, Kindly Light was then sung :—
Lead, kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom,
Lead Thou me on;
The night is dark, and I am far from home,
Lead Thou me on ;
Keep Thou my feet, I do not care to see
The distant scene : one step enough for me.
I was not ever thus, nor prayed that Thou
Should’st lead me on;
I loved to choose and see my path ; but now
Lead Thou me on ;
I loved the garish day, and, spite of years,
Pride ruled my will: remember not past years.
So long Thy power hath blessed me, sure it still
Will lead me on,
O’er moor and fen, o’er crag and torrent, till
The night is gone.
And, with the morn, those angel faces smile,
Which I have loved long since, and lost awhile.
Mr. Enmore Jones said, that Mr. S. C. Hall and Dr. Maurice Davies
l\ had promised to attend that meeting; he was unaware of the cause of
i their absence. As regarded Spiritualism, in the past men had asked
I for “ faith,” but in the present they wanted “ knowledge.” In searching
! among hymn-books of Christians, containing some 8,000 hymns alto*
gether, he had been unable to find more than twelve hymns common to
all the collections, which fact was a disgrace to Christianity. He had
been searching for hymns to be sung at that meeting, which hymns
| were to be found in every Christian hymn-book. He had known what
it was to sufler bereavement; he had lost nine children and a wife, and it
I was a truly vital question to him to know that the dead still live; he
and friends on the right and left of him had searched for and obtained
that knowledge. Spiritualists ought to show the churches that that
(| which they sing on the Sunday and deny on the Monday is equally
j j true on the Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday.
}! A Canon of the Church of England recently told him that he didn’t
(j believe a word of the Biblical miracles; they were all impossible; there
> | was not a word of truth in them. He (Mr. Jones) replied, “ You are
H a very ignorant Canon”—(laughter)—then showed him the table at
(| which he often sat with Mr. Home, and told him of miracles he had
| i seen in his own house. (Applause.) He wanted Spiritualists to aid
| him to spread knowledge of Spiritualism in every postal district of
(j the metropolis.
) i A vote of thanks to Mr. Enmore Jones was proposed by Major
11 Gales Forster, and seconded .by Dr. Carter Blake, the latter observing
( that Mr. E. Jones, as one of the original bail for Dr. Slade, deserved
| the thanks of Spiritualists,
j The meeting then broke up.
i (I Mtss Linda Dietz, sister to the Mrs. and Miss Dietz so well known
j j i to London audiences, has, according to the American journals, made a
i 11 great hit at the New York Union-square Theatre, in a piece entitled
] (| Une Cause Celebre, by Yictorien Sardou, the French Spiritualist,
fi I think the person who is terrified with the imagination of ghosts
j | and spectres much more reasonable than one who, contrary to the
i | i reports of all historians, sacred and profane, ancient and modern, and
I (! to the traditions of all nations, thinks the appearance of spirits fabulous
i (| and groundless. Could not I give myself up to this general testimony
| . of mankind, I should to the relations of particular persons who are now
| ( i living, and whom I cannot distrust in other matters of fact.—Addison.
i) | Mrs. Weldon’s Case.—Mrs. Weldon informs us that next Tuesday
| (i evening, at eight o’clock, she will address a public meeting at St. James’s
| (i Hall, Regent-street, London, on the Lunacy Laws. It will be re-
]) | membered how narrowly she escaped all the horrors of a madhouse, and
] (j how the circumstances were such that official investigation on the part of
II i the Lunacy Commissioners or other authorities seemed to be desirable.
] /1 As Mrs. Weldon fearlessly supported Dr. Slade in his hour of need,
! (] Spiritualists should attend and hear what she has to say about her own
jJ j case.
I (| Spiritualism in Hackney.—In consequence of a secession from the
I) i Hackney Psychological Society, another association has been formed in
I) i the district. A Christian Spiritual church has been established, and
j( j last Sunday fourteen of the members of the latter partook of the Lord’s
j) i Supper. The other section of Hackney Spiritualists gives more atten-
i) i tion to experimental investigation. Spiritualists in the neighbourhood
i( i are quite numerous enough to bear this division without inconvenience,
| J | and to start on their separate paths with friendliness.
210
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 1, 1878.
211
Nov. 1, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
DK. SLADE’S SUCCESS IN AUSTRALIA. j
Djr. Slade and Miss Slade have arrived safely in Mel- j j
bourne, and one of the chief Australian daily papers, The Age, j \
of August 20th, gives the following report of one of his first j (
stances there :— | (
Spiritualism is just now very much to the front in Mel- j
bourne. The lectures of Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, j /
delivered to crowded audiences at the Opera House every j)
Sunday evening, have naturally attracted a sort of wondering I
curiosity to the subject, and the interest has probably been j
intensified by the strenuous efforts that are being made in |
some of the orthodox pulpits to prove that the whole thing j
is an emanation from the devil. The announcement that j \
the famous Dr. Slade had arrived to strengthen the ranks of j j
the Spiritualists has therefore been made at a very critical j (
juncture, and I should not be surprised to find that the con- j
sequence will be to infuse a galvanic activity into the forces i
on both sides. Though I do not profess to be a Spiritualist, j <
I own to having been infected with the fashionable itch for I!
witnessing “physical manifestations,” as they are called, |J
and accordingly I have attended several circles with more or 11
less gratification. But Dr. Slade is notan ordinary medium,
even among professionals. The literature of the Spiritualists
is full of his extraordinary achievements, attested, to all j i
appearance, by credible witnesses, who have not been j ]
ashamed to append their names to their statements. But j1
there was one drawback to all these credentials in my mind: 11
Dr. Slade had been sentenced at the Bow-street Police- j j
court, in October of last year, under the Vagrant Act, for j1
obtaining money under false pretences. Professor Lankester j i
was the prosecutor, and the chief witness against Dr. Slade j ]
appears to have been the well-known conjuror, Mr. Mas- r
kelyne. From all I can gather the evidence was very un- j i
scientific and inconclusive, and the Higher Court seems to J ]
have thought it so, for on appeal Dr. Slade’s conviction was
quashed, and the immediate effect was to create a good deal j!
of sympathy for him in all ranks. The newspapers were j ]
flooded with accounts of his stances, and among his defenders 11
were medical men, clergymen, and others. He was on his j \
way to St. Petersburg when arrested, to fulfil an engagement
to submit the phenomenon of psychography, as the inde¬
pendent writing by the psychic or medium is called, to a
committee of scientific experts. I see that his engagement
has since been fulfilled, and I presume very much to his
satisfaction, for on one occasion writing in six different
languages was obtained on a single slate, and one day, ac¬
companied by two learned professors, Dr. Slade had a sitting j
with the Grand Duke Constantine, who obtained writing on i
a new slate held by himself alone. From St. Petersburg !
Dr. Slade went to Berlin, where he is said to have obtained
some marvellous manifestations in the house of Professor
Zollner, and where he was visited by the court conjuror to
the Emperor, Samuel Bellachini,No. 14, Groszbaron-Strasse, j
who made an affidavit before a public notary to the following
effect:—
I hereby declare it to be a rash action to give decisive judgment upon
the objective medial performance of the American medium, Mr. Henry
Slade, after only one sitting, and the observations so made. After I |
had, at the wish of several highly esteemed gentlemen of rank and
position, and also for my own interest, tested the physical mediumship
of Mr. Slade in a series of sittings by full daylight, as well as in the
evening, in his bedroom, I must, for the sake of truth, hereby certify
that the phenomenal occurrences with Mr. Slade have been thoroughly
examined by me, with the minutest observation and investigation of his j
surroundings, including the table, and that I have not in the smallest I
instance found anything to be produced by means of prestidigitative j
manifestations, or by mechanical apparatus, and that any explanation j
of the experiments which took place under the circumstances and con- j
ditions then obtaining, by any reference to prestidigitation, to be j
absolutely impossible.
I am giving these details because they will furnish some
insight into my mental relations with Slade and his history j
when I entered his room, over Mr. Terry’s bookshop, in
Russell-street, in company with a friend, for the purpose of |
witnessing his powers. The Bow-street episode was a crux
not easily to be got over, but on the other hand, against the
rather clumsy evidence of the English conjuror, Maskelyne, j
I was compelled to set the sworn testimony of the German
conjuror, Bellachini, which I give in full, in order that any¬
body with sufficient curiosity and leisure may verify it by com- 1
municating with him. My normal state, however, is that of
scepticism, or perhaps I should say Pyrrhonism. The
problem of my own existence is such a portentous one that
the phenomena of the Spiritualists seem to me to make a
really smaller tax on what I suppose I must call the faculty
of belief. That I am able to think, reason, move, and
perform the multiplicity of functions that make up my
existence automatically, or without any apparent driving
force, is just as wonderful in the sense of being just as unin¬
telligible as the automatic movements of the inanimate
objects, which are endowed with a functional life by the
touch or will of the living psychic. Call the force what you
please, say that it is identical with the mesmeric fluid of
Mesmer, the odyle of Reichenbach, or the nerve-aura of Dr.
Richardson, the difficulty still remains unexplained. The
Spiritualists get over it, of course, by insisting that he is
literally a medium through which immaterial intelligences
work, as the electrician works through the battery at his
hand. The Materialist, on the other hand, will have it that
it is all owing to will-power; that the nerve or executive
force of the human will is not confined within the limits of
the body in which it is imprisoned, but can be extended to
almost any distance, and may operate upon almost any object.
I am not concerned with th^ philosophy of the question just
now, however. My object in visiting Dr. Slade was to seek
for a nearer solution than I had attained to yet, and my
frame of mind, therefore, can be understood when I was
introduced to him with my friend, whom I shall call Omega,
and who was bent on pretty much the same errand. Dr.
Slade and Mr. Terry constituted the circle of four who sat
around the table in the centre of the room almost as imme¬
diately as we entered it. There was nothing in the room to
attract attention. No signs of confederacy, human or
mechanical. The hour was eleven in the morning. The
window was unshuttered, and the sun was shining brightly.
The table at which we sat was a new one, made especially by
Wallach Bros., of Elizabeth-street, of polished cedar,
having four slight legs, one flap, and no ledges of
any kind underneath. As soon as we examined it Dr. Slade
took his seat on one side, facing the window, and the rest of
us occupied the other three seats. He was particularly
anxious that we should see he had nothing about him. It
had been said that he wrote on the slate by means of a crumb
of pencil stuck in his finger nails, but his nails were cut to
the quick, while his legs and feet were ostentatiously placed
away from the table in a side position, exposed to view the
whole time. He first produced a slate of the ordinary
school size with a wet sponge, which I used to it. It was
opaque, and had the grey colour of a new article. A chip of
pencil about the size of a grain of wheat was placed upon it
on the table; we joined hands, and immediately taps were
heard about the table, and in answer to a question, “Will
you write ?” from Dr. Slade, three raps were given, and he
forthwith took up the slate with the pencil lying on it, and
held half of it under the table by his finger and thumb which
clasped the corner of the half that was outside the table, and
was therefore easily seen by all present. His left hand
remained near the centre of the table, resting on those of the
two sitters on either side of him. Several convulsive jerks
of his arms were now given, then a pause, and immediately
the sound of writing was audible to every one, a scratching
sound interrupted by the tap of the pencil, which indicated,
as we afterwards found, that the t’s were being crossed and
the i’s dotted. The slate was then exposed, and the words
written were in answer to the question which had been put
by Omega as to whether he had psychic power or not. I
pass over the conversation that ensued on the subject, and
go on to the next phenomenon. In order to satisfy myself
that the “trick” was not done by means of sympathetic
writing on the slate, I had ten minutes previously pur¬
chased a slate from a shop in Burke-street, containing three
leaves, and shutting up book-fashion. This I produced, and
Dr. Slade readily repeated his performance with it. It was
necessary to break the pencil down to a mere crumb, in
order to insert it between the leaves of the slate. This done,
the phenomena at once recurred, with this rather perplexing
difference, that the slate, instead of being put half under
the table, forced itself by a series of jerks on to my neck
and reposed quietly under ray ear, before the eyes of every one
212
THE S PI ft X Y U A LIS T.
tfov. X,
present. The scratching then commenced ; I heard the t’s
crossed and the i’s dotted by the moving pencil, and at the
usual signal I opened the; slate and found an intelligible
reply to the question put. On this occasion it will be seen
the phenomenon occurred out of the usual course. The slate
was on my shoulder, and not half under the table, and Dr.
Slade’s hand was easily watched holding the corner of it.
Immediately after, the same slate, by a similar wave-like
movement, passed across me and rested on the hand of
Omega, the writing taking place as before, the slate being
detached from Mr. Slade’s hand altogether. I subscribe the
message, as given in a clear, legible handwriting : <e In¬
vestigate all subjects, and hold fast to that which is good
and true. The object of this is to give hope to those of no
hope, by proving the soul can never die.” The next mani¬
festation was the levitation of one of the sitters in his chair
about a clear foot from the ground, and the levitation of the
table about two feet. I ought to have mentioned that
during the whole of the seance there was a good deal of by¬
play going on. Every one felt the touch of hands more or
less, and the sitters’ chairs were twice wrenched from under
them, or nearly so, but the psychic could not possibly have
done it. It only remains to point out the favourable con¬
ditions under which the phenomena were witnessed. First,
it was daylight. Second, there were three independent
witnesses. Third, the evidence was furnished by three of
the senses of each witness, namely, the eyes, the ears, and
the touch. Fourth, the manipulation of the slate was
rendered impossible by the precaution taken to have a new
slate, which Dr. Slade had not handled. Fifth, the writing
was legible. Sixth, the answers written were an intelligent
reply to questions put. Seventh, Dr. Slade’s legs were
visible all the time. Eighth, some of the writing was done
on the slate placed on my shoulder, and some more on
Omega’s hand on the opposite side of the table, and not
under the flap. Ninth,-at no time throughout the entire
seance was Dr. Slade’s hand under the table, but at least
six inches outside, within the observation of everybody.
With this summary my business ends. The slate with the
in its leaves is still in my possession, so
original writing
that the hallucination or
good.
mesmeric theory does not hold
A SCENE FROM “ THE CROWN OF FIRE.”
The following scene, entitled “The Baptism of Power,” is extracted
from the late Mrs. F. Gr. M‘DougaH’s poem, “ The Crown of Fire,” a
portion of which has been published in The Banner of Light. Mrs.
M'Dongall was an American medium. The scene here reprinted bears
r jference to the last night on earth of Joan of Arc:—
Night closed around her with a shroud so deep,
It made the dungeon darkness more intense
And palpable.
She arose,
And, trembling, stood in loneliness profound.
The chains that, for six heavy months, had sunk
Deeper and sorer in the tender flesh,
Still bound and tortured her. And yet the Land
So dearly loved, for whose great Life she dared
The chain, the dungeon, and the insulting scoff's
Of cruel foes—enraged and brutish men—
In all its empire, had no single arm
To guard or save her—to protect that heart
Which would have freely given its last rich drop
To save her country, or to serve her king.
Her honours desecrated—powers withdrawn—
Her life endangered, and her glorious deeds
Shrouded in awful darkness, she was left
Without a friend, thus horribly alone!
And bitterer far than all the bitterness
O’ersurging her young life, one barbed thought
Cut through her, stinging to the very quick—
Her powerlessness to aid the suffering—
To minister, as long bad been her wont,
Unto the troubled and the sore of heart.
Ah! this was wrong indeed', to take away
That God-gift which had made her noble life
So rich in blessing, that her loftier deeds
Paled in the presence of sweet charities,
Which comforted and blest the humble poor.
There was no mother, brother, father, friend,
To come and look upon her, where she lay,
The prey of human wolves, whose savageness
The gauntest prowler of the plains would shame !
Fouler than jackals, fiercer than the fiercest
Of all the tiger race, they clutched their prey,
And, in the true cat-nature, played with it:
The helpless writhings and protracted torture
Gave keenest pleasure to their hellish hearts.
Sometimes, borne up by powers
Divine, Omnipotent, she rose above
The bitter cruelty that bound her life
In one fierce round of torture. But the cloud
Now fell upon her with a crushing weight
Of agony, which filled her, soul and sense,
With pangs unspeakable.
But suddenly a deep, inshining light
Illumined the dark dungeon with such splendour
That she, though long inured to heavenly light,
Was almost blinded.
Face to face she stood,
Poor outcast of the Earth, yet unabashed,
Before the bright Archangel, Grasping close
The hand of benediction, dfie full tide
Of strength, of faith, of power, suffused her soul!
For agony of joy she could not speak;
But bowing her fair head, the genial tears
Fell fast and eased her aching heart,
Michael.
“ Never before, my daughter, have I seen
Thy life so bright, thy light so clear and steady,
Thy faith so true, thy soul so tall and stately,
As I can now behold them. . Joyfully
And reverently the highest consecration
I now confer. Supremely worthy thou
For this last rite, the Baptism of Poweb.”
He laid a hand upon the upturning brow,
And looked into the wondrous eyes, until
The infinite of Heaven was pictured there !
All the large love that energised her soul
To do and dare, in superhuman deeds,
The sweet forgiveness that forgot all wrong,
And only cherished blessings for the scourger,
The hope divine, angelic and far-seeing,
That looked away—away beyond the veil!
And, above all, the faith sublime and calm,
That, in the midst of darkness, dropped its anchor
Fast by the pillars of Eternal Truth ;
All these were wrought in such a blaze of glory
That the high Angel’s eyes, half blinded, fell
As if they could not bear to closely scan
The characters of that resplendent story.
“ Oh Angel! ” she exclaimed, “I know that now
I shall go forth a conqueror. No more
Shall all their hellish hosts encompass me,
Beyond the reach of Heaven ; for in this light
And in this presence now I feel the power
To lead me forth triumphantly away,
Beyond the reach of my most mighty foes !
When God and Angels are upon my side,
How should I, could I fear 1 ”
Michael.
“ My daughter,
Thou sayest well; and these thy holy words
Shall be borne out by higher, nobler action !
Immortal gems of honour and renown
Shall crown and consecrate thee with such splendour,
Which all-corroding Time shall never tarnish.
“ Rememberest thou, my child, how, long ago,
A word came unto thee ? And now it lives
In high fulfilment and fruition. Maid,
1 Where thy saddest, deepest dole is,
Find the Holiest of Holies.’
Just as I to-night have seen thee,
With no shade of Earth between thee,
And the highest Heaven, that now
Lights thy soul and crowns thy brow !
“ Had thy life been led in light,
Garlanded with blossoms bright,
This perfect glory, which now fills
Thy heart, and all thy being thrills
With a faith sublime,
Had not been reached, had not been known,
And thou hadst never filled the throne
Which stands for thee in heavenly state,
With pureness all immaculate.
“ Now triumphant over time
Walk the path that martyrs trod,
Walk with Angels, Jesus, God,
O’er the toils of Human Hate,
Led by an o’ermastering Fate,
With a power thy foes to meet
That shall make their scourging sweet,
That shall stir in Hell’s abysses
Strength that’s never foiled, nor misses
Its true aim, but through the dark
1878.
ftov. 1, 1878.
TI1E SPiRITUALIST.
213
Shall lead thee safely, Maid of Arc,
And moor, at last, thy little bark
On the still waters of that sea
Which laves thy shore, Eternity.”
He laid a hand upon the lifted brow,
And thus unto her reverent spirit spoke:
“Joan of Arc, my tender child,
Amid all foulness undefiled,
Amid all falsehood meekly true ;
Let my light touch thy soul, endue
With godlike strength. Still undismayed
Before all ill, Heroic Maid!
From this hour all weakness flies thee;
Into Power I now baptise thee—
Power to meet the wolfish pack
Which are howling round thy track;
All their fiendish arts defeat
With a wisdom pure and sweet;
Unshrinking in the conflict dire,
Dare the stake, disarm the fire !
Thus uplifted, calm and free,
To the heavens, that welcome thee,
Take thy honoured place beside
Thy only peer—the Crucified !”
He paused; for oh ! his words had grown too awful
For human ears or human heart to know.
A thrill of horror shot through every nerve,
And left its passage frozen. Changed to stone,
She had been listening, till at last no sound
Was given back by her congealing senses.
He saw his error, and he sought to heal
The poor soul-stricken by a thought of love.
Michael.
Oh, maiden, think alway on Him
Who sits amid the seraphim,
Only waiting till they sunder
Bonds that part ye. Think, and wonder
At the joys of Heaven above,
In the infinite of love.
In the shadows, trusting, stand;
In the darkness clasp His hand ;
Know, whatever may betide thee,
He is walking close beside thee—
Will be—till the evil flown
He may make thee all His own !
Think of this, oh maiden, true,
And let the thought thy soul endue
With truest power.”
She looked up, and a flush
Warming the paleness of her marble cheek,
Went like a flash of sunshine over snow.
And her sweet voice, so tender and so tremulous,
Broke forth beseechingly:—
“ Oh, mighty Angel 1
Speak, and tell me truly. Would such a thought
Suffice to strengthen, and to lead me forth
Through perils and through sufferings infinite ?
To know I am beloved is sweetest solace;
To feel, and understand, the sympathy,
Precious and sacred, of responsive souls—
The sweetest, the divinest of all ties —
Fills me with joy seraphic: yet I feel
A narrowing in it, to the centre, self.
The larger love my heart so long has cherished—
The love of thee, my own beloved Country !
With all the good I’ve truly sought to do,
Yet have not all accomplished, in that hour
Of sternest trial must my armour be.
Oh, France ! dear France ! I hold thy honoured name
Deep in my deepest nature. It shall be
Last in my thought, and last upon the lips,
That yield with thee, their human speech for aye.”
Her arms were folded, as to clasp her prize ;
The hands were crossed upon her throbbing heart
As her last prescient words went out in silence.
She stood before the Angel, so sublime
He hardly dared to look upon her face,
Which shone with such a high and godlike grandeur
As never had before been seen in woman.
He laid his hand upon her reverently,
As if receiving, not conferring honour,
And spoke in a soft whisper : “ Rest, my child !”
The splendours of the beaming eye were softened
By filmy shadows ,* over them fell
Their hazy curtains ; and the pensile lid
Dropped its dark fringes on the marble cheek,
And shut out from the mind all consciousness.
The Angel laid her gently on the couch,
Praying the shadows of maternal Night
To soothe and heal with rest that sweetest sleeper.
A reader residing in British Columbia says that Spiritualists there
are becoming quite an important body, because of the rapid rate at
which the movement is spreading.
GUARDIAN ANGELS.
Not only in the quiet night,
Not only in the busy day,
Not only in the morning’s light,
Or when the daybeam fades away,
But, silently, as sunray bright,
Come those departed from thy sight,
To follow where thy footsteps stray,
At morn, at noon, and evening grey.
With love illumed and joy bedight,
The visitants from heaven’s height,
The guardian angels of thy way. J. F. Hunt.
ASPIRATION AND INSPIRATION.
Tell him that his very longing
Is itself an answering cry ;
That his prayer, “ Come, gracious Allah !”
Is my answer, “ Here am I.”
Every inmost aspiration,
Is God’s angel undefiled ;
And in every “ Oh my Father 1”
Slumbers deep a “ Here, my child.”
Tholuck.
gTorresponiience.
[ Great freedom is offered to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should bekept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.']  
UNCONSCIOUS CEREBRATION.
Sir,—The following case of what Dr. Carpenter would call “ uncon¬
scious cerebration ” may be worth noting. Wishing to express sym¬
pathy with a friend in a letter I was writing, a confused jumble only of
the following passage from All’s Well that Ends Well (I did not at the
time remember even which play of Shakespeare it was in) entered my
head :—
“ ’Tis pity
That wishing well had not a body in’t
Which might bo felt; that we, the poorer born,
Whose baser stars do shut us up in wishes,
Might with effect of these follow our friends,
And show what we alone must think ; which never
Returns us thanks.”
Knowing the first line or two correctly, I mechanically began writing
them down, and then, without the least thought or conscious memory,
my pen ran on (I do not mean that the act of writing was what we call
automatic) till the passage was nearly completed as above. But just
then the fact that I was recovering the words without knowing it
struck me, and instantly the unconscious process ceased; and it was
only by one effort of recollection, and then not quite correctly, that I
could supply the rest. It is probable that all recognised consciousness
implies some degree of reflection, and possibly other mental processes
besides memory may be impeded rather than expedited thereby.
  C. C. M.
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—As I believe I was among the first to pay a visit to
Mrs. Loomis, I think it right to add my testimony to that of your
correspondent <! R.” and others in favour of her power as a clairvoyant
healing medium.
I was much out of health at the time of my visit; the medium
quickly discovered the malady, and I am pleased to say that I derived
great benefit from her treatment.
Mrs. Loomis also showed considerable power in the delineation of
character.
I may add that a relative is now under her advice, and I have
reason to believe that her case is thoroughly understood.
James Deane.
Olapham, October 15, 1878.
SPIRIT DRAWINGS.
Sir,—A very valuable and unique collection of drawings, produced
under what is known as “ spirit influence,” is now for sale in London
at an address which I shall be happy to furnish to any person inquiring
for the same.
Prominent among them is a painting of American autumn leaves,
wrought through the hand of Mrs. Mapes, wife of the celebrated
Professor of Agricultural Chemistry, and is of unequalled beauty, both
as regards colouring and manipulation.
These drawings should certainly be seen by all Spiritualists and
others interested in abnormal phenomena, as they furnish a proof that
something of a far higher order than the usual material-seeming
phenomena can be produced, even through physical mediumship. As
one test that the paintings were actually done at the time indicated, it
is recorded that the colours were found to be wet when the light was
struck.
A description of the manner of production of each drawing is affixed
to the back of the frame, as well as the attestations of many well-
known witnesses, including Judge Edmonds and others. Many of
them are handsomely mounted, and, apart from their intrinsic value
and beauty, would grace the walls of any drawing-room.
Emily Kislingbury,
88, Groat Russell-stroot, London.
214
THE SHiHlTUALlST.
Nov. 1, 1878.
THE WILLIAMS-BXTA CASE.
Sir,—Respecting the Williams-Rita affair, I am very apprehensive j
that those reported Spiritualists who seized the mediums are not suffi¬
ciently experienced in the true nature of materialisation, or they would
have waited a little longer before seizing, or giving publicity to their
hasty acts.
Pray, why ask public mediums to visit Holland, and then not ask, or cause
them to be searched before the seance began ? If after so doing no calico
or beards were found on them, it would distinctly prove that the naked
spirits had brought those things to cover themselves, or some one of the
sitters had secretly done so to damage the mediums. When a form is |
projected from its medium, it first comes with hands and head only
materialised, as in dark seances; the body comes in in folds of white
calico; shortly the body and legs also become solid, but all is of such a !
nature thatit can instantly vanish or become invisible. Now if the form
called “ Charlie ” was seized and instantly vanished, then Rita would be |
colljared and condemned most unfairly, he being in a trance state. If |
any drapery was left behind, the spirit had to vanish so quickly, that it j
might leave behind as matter, what it and unseen spirit helps had
brought. If they can bring hats, boots, and sticks from one room into
another with locked doors, so they can and do bring things to dress j
themselves in, and usually take them away again. I know nothing of
Rita, having never yet seen him, but Williams I have known long, and
cannot yet believe him guilty. Nor does Mr. Riko’s statement show j
where all the white raiment of “Charlie ” went to when seized.
As to the British National Association of Spiritualists interfering in j
matters of this kind, it is absurd and out of its province to act as police- i
men, and to cripple a medium’s honour and freedom ; the law is bad
enough and wants relaxing, but the Association has nothing to do with j
mediums off the British National Association of Spiritualists’ premises. |
If it does otherwise, it must watch Eglinton at the Cape, and Abdulla, j
who may be seized in the same way by inexperienced people; then he i
will also suffer, and so bring forth lots of work for the British National |
Association of Spiritualists, which itself is only learning from mediums, j
I will help to condemn any medium who is guilty; but let us first be |
certain by testing both again, and not trust to those who are not j ,
witnesses to our tests here. Charles Blackburn. j i
Parkfield, Didsbury. j J
[Before he left London, Mr, Eglinton was advised by us to give no stances j j
to strangers, unless he was held by both hands from first to last, so that if any- j |
body did anything, or if spirits or mortals brought in any drapery, he must j |
be held blameless. It is pleasing to see from the letter recently published by j I
Mr. Berks Hutchinson that so far he has acted upon this advice, and given j
general satisfaction.—Ed.] !
. Sir,—I wrote you an opinion a few days ago touching the Rita and i
Williams’ affair in Holland ; since which I sent for Williams to inter- I
rogate him, and to have a test seance with him at Signor Rondi’s studio, j
22, Montagu-place, London, on Friday last. The house is half a mile
away from Williams’s residence, and I invited Lady G , also Mr. j
and Mrs. Fletcher and Signor Rondi, to be present.
They arrived about three o’clock; and we all heard Williams’s flat j
contradiction of his guiltiness, he having been in a semi-trance at the j
Holland seance, and his attendant spirits, “ John King and Peter,” not j
having arrived, he was awakened by the screen being knocked down j
over him, and a rush into the cabinet. He says he brought nothing j
but his ordinary clothing with him, and had left his carpet bag at the j
hotel—so whatever was found during the scrimmage did not belong to j
him; nor was he engaged there at all, for it was Rita’s seance, &c , &c.
I replied, “We will end this affair, so far as I am concerned, by now
having a test stance in the presence of these witnesses.” He replied,
“I am quite willing, if my attendant spirits will obey my wish.” |
I then asked Williams into an adjoining room, and took also |
Signor Rondi as a witness, leaving the two ladies and Mr. Fletcher j
for a few minutes only. Myself and Mr. Rondi made Williams ]
strip himself, whilst we examined his clothing and pockets, and were j
satisfied there was no calico, or oil, or anything different from I
our own clothing. We waited until he dressed, and then took him back j
into the next room, placed him in a chair in a corner of the room, j
behind two green baize curtains, and whilst I was drawing together the
curtains “Peter, the spirit,” shouted out, “Mr. Blackburn, very glad j
you are here !” at which the medium and ourselves all laughed, for the
exclamation was so sudden that Williams had scarcely got completely
seated. The room was darkened by a Venetian blind, and brown paper
over that; a little gas was on, but Peter requested the gas to be put
out, as he would show himself by his own light, so the gas was put out.
We then all heard the medium breathing heavily, as if he had gone
into trance, when suddenly Peter told us to change places, and he would
come out of the cabinet. He said that Lady G was to sit next the
cabinet, and I next to her, and Mr. Rondi next to me, then Mrs.
Fletcher, then Mr. Fletcher, and all to join hands.
This being done Peter opened the curtains, came into the middle of the j
circle, and lighted up something white in his hand, for as he breathed
unit it illuminated his face (which is very different to Williams’s), |
and showed a mass of white calico on his head in turban shape, and a
separate lot over his arms, shoulders, and breast. His light went out;
we heard the medium again groaning and his chair cracking. Then
Peter came and stood in front of me and Lady G——; blew on his i
light, showing himself plainly. I said to him, “ Now, Peter, is your i
time. Whilst your medium is groaning take me into the cabinet by i
the hand, and don’t leave go until you bring me back to my chair.” j
He said, “ Come along.” So Heft Lady G ’s hand and gave ittoPeter, ;
wlio led me into the cabinet, and placed my left hand on Williams’s !
head ; I felt his hair and face ; my right hand felt his shoulders and
body without any calico on them whatever. Peter and self went back
to my chair, he never having loosed me for one second. The company 1
then asked to see the “ medium,’’ and Peter took us all into the cabinet,
and with his light showed him plainly in trance. I speak as I ex¬
perience, and trust others will do the same, without prejudice.
We quickly broke up the seance. After such evidence I must say
“ I am satisfied,” and I think my previous letter will help to throw
light upon this subject; Chas. Blackburn.
Sir,—As my occupations here hindered my attendance at the special
meeting of Council held last Tuesday, perhaps you will allow me to find
utterance through your columns.
In the first place, let me put on record my most hearty thanks to our
energetic Dutch friends for the service they have rendered to truth in
unmasking an imposture. After this general expression of feeling, it
may be permitted me to pass a slight stricture on their letter without
risk of appearing unappreciative. On reading the account of what first
aroused their suspicion, namely, the fact of the landlady having “ heard
footsteps distinctly, and the creaking noise of boots in the room from
which the object had been brought,” it struck me that there was nothing
really suspicious in this circumstance beyond what had been imported
into it through the carelessness of the sitters. If the room in question
was accessible to the mediums, why ask for the object to be brought
from it ? It is unfair to tempt a servant’s honesty by leaving money
loose about the house; and in like manner it was inconsiderate in these
gentlemen to require, as a test of superhuman power, a feat which could
so readily have been accomplished by mortal means. But if there had
been no access to the room in which the object lay, then the sound of
footsteps and the creaking of boots is just what ought to have been
expected, if there be any truth in the theory of the transcorporeal action
of spirit. I never had the good fortune myself to meet any spirit except
such as we see around us daily in tolerably permanent cases of flesh and
blood. But in all the instances I have heard of or read about, the
spirits of living persons, when acting at a distance from their natural
bodies, seem to manifest a palpable, audible, and lively, not to say
boisterous, materiality. There was nothing, therefore, in the landlady’s
testimony calculated to arouse suspicion, supposing due precautions had
been taken to render access to the room impossible. But under the
actual conditions of easy entrance, of course corporeal action on the part
of one of the mediums was a thousandfold more probable than trans¬
corporeal. .
To pass on now to another point, it seems to me undesirable that a
social and scientific body like the B. N. A. S. should usurp the functions
of a criminal court. If Williams is a knave, why, we are dupes—and
there’s an end of it. But it does eminently befit an Association such as
ours to ascertain and make public the exact truth with regard to all
phenomena alleged to be spiritual. And here is a case which, above all
| others, cries aloud for examination. John King has long figured before
the world; his pedigree has been traced, his biography written, his
photograph taken ; his ta&Ze-talk has been treasured up ; he has
| flourished long and begotten offspring : if he fall, he does not fall alone.
And now it turns out that John King was, all the while, a false beard,
| some dirty muslin, and a bottle of phosphoric oil! He is proved to
! have consisted of these simple ingredients on one occasion, and the pre-
i sumption, of course, is that he was never anything more. It would
j require very strong evidence, indeed, to make it anything but the height
of folly to assert the contrary. And yet how much of the fabric of
belief in Spiritualism really rests on the shoulders of this apparently
collapsed spirit 1 There are a large number of persons whose experience
of Spiritualism is confined to public mediumship, and among public
mediums I venture to say there was no one who was regarded with more
confidence than Williams. It is, therefore, a matter imperatively
demanding the attention of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists to discriminate, if possible, between the true and the false
elements in Mr. Williams’s mediumship, if he will submit himself to full
examination. Has he indeed been able, by means of the slender
paraphernalia discovered about his person, to impose successfully for so
many years on a number of intelligent investigators ? Then in that
fact itself, judged from a purely scientific point of view—I mean from
the point of view of common sense, unencumbered by ologies or isms—
we have a psychological phenomenon worthy of all study and elucidation.
There is much about John King, however, that is difficult of explana¬
tion, even in the light of recent disclosures. How was Williams
enabled to float up to the ceiling of his room, as I have seen him do ?
And what became, of the lower part of his body when he presented
himself, as he was wont to do, over the middle of a solid table 1 I was
once admitted into the cabinet, and held a living man in my grasp, when
the well-known form of John King floated up to me from the outside,
and addressed me in its usual voice. I am now driven to the conclusion
that some one else must have been put into the cabinet for me to hold.
If so, Williams must have had an accomplice in his own rooms. This
is a cold-blooded way to be writing about a man for whom I confess to
entertaining some regard. But what is there left to do when the design
of dishonesty is proved ?—for that is what our Dutch friends have
brought to light. A good many, I daresay, were, like myself, fully
convinced already that John King was Williams with the addition of a
beard, and Peter, Williams again, disguised only by a wriggle. But I
always took the charitable view that the medium was a passive instru¬
ment, and not the active contriver of the masquerade.
If Mr. Williams cares to submit himself to the scrutiny of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, such genuine medial
powers as he possesses might still be of interest to the public. But I
would suggest that, with a view to securing honesty in the future, a full
confession of all previous trickery, accompanied with practical illustra¬
tions of how it was done, should be rigorously insisted upon as the
indispensable preliminary to any further dealings with him on the part
of the Association. The proper province of that body is the investiga¬
tion of truth, not the punishment of offences. St. Georoe Stock.
8, Museum-villas, Oxford, Monday, October 14th.
Nov. 1, 1878.
THE SriBITU ALIST.
215
HOO JAMIE DEE’d.
Sib,—Your Scotch readers may appreciate the following lines. Their
story is not a fiction. I copy them from the MSS. of an old friend.
When he fand he was nearin’ this life’s nether end
He sent for the fiddler, his faithfu’ auld friend,
To come wi’ his fiddle, an’ play him awa’,
For nae langer the bow then himsel’ he could draw;
And he bade him play till him nae wild rantin’ reel,
But “ I’m wearin’ awa’ to the land o’ the leal.”
Now dinna mistak’ me, an’ binna advised
That the fiddle he lov’d an’ the Bible despised,
A scorner he was not, but thought it nae wrang
The sentiment pure o’ that auld Scottish sang,
Ance mair in his faint throbbin’ bosom to feel,
Whan wearin’ awa’ to the land o’ the leal.
He had sawn his wild aits in the days o’ his youth,
An’ ’twas nae little drinkin’ that sleekened his drouth ;
For he tauld a gude story, an’ sang a gude sang,
An’ sat like a monarch gude fellows amang.
But aye was an honest an’ kind-hearted chiel,
An’ we trust he’s awa’ to the land o’ the leal.
For friends, wi’ the days o’ his youth, passed awa’,
Grief cam’ to his dwallin’, that comes to us a’,
An’ sobered him doon to a thochtfu’ auld man;
An’ ye ken this is pairt o’ the mercifu’ plan,
That sorrow on sorrow maun aft on us steal,
To wear us awa’ to the land o’ the leal. D. L. N.
Edinburgh, Oct. 27th.
The Lunacy Laws.-—Mrs. Weldon is a spirited woman; the cause
she undertakes she battles through with courage. The one she
fought recently in the courts cost her a great deal of money. She,
therefore, advertises that, on the next Guy Fawkes’ Day, she will speak
at St. James’s Hall, first upon the special subject of that cause cSlebre
the Queen v. Menier, and then upon the larger topic of the Lunacy
Laws in general. Should all this fail to bring grist to the mill, in other
words, should the necessary £300 not be raised, Mrs. Weldon will sell
to the highest bidder a portrait of herself, by Mr. G. F. Watts, R.A.
She will also read letters and remarks from Lord Shaftesbury and Mr.
Gladstone.—The Court Journal.
Social Influences in Scotland.—Principal Shairp, of St. Andrew’s,
spoke at a meeting of the Educational Institution of Scotland on
Scotchmen and Scotch manners. He said that north of the Tweed
sectarianism and love of money were special characteristics, and by
appealing to these there was not one national institution guaranteed by
union which would not disappear. In Scotch education the social side
had been almost entirely neglected, the result of which was to be seen
in the High-street of Glasgow, which he considered the nether pit of
social barbarism. Highlanders were spoiled by contact with tourists
and by preying upon strangers. This he considered might be partly
owing to the long struggle to hold their own with southern neighbours
and sectarian Dissenters, which had so long devastated and was devas¬
tating spiritual life.—Court Journal.
A Relic op Shelley.—An interesting relic of Shelley has reached
London—a spacious sofa large enough for a bed. It has for many
years been in the possession of Baron ELirkup, the aged English
painter settled in Florence, and is now the property of Mr. Trelawny,
but remains deposited at the residence of Mr. William M. Rossetti. It
is of Italian manufacture, and of simple but shapely form, with
balustraded sides and back. The question has been raised as to
whether it is the sofa which Shelley ordinarily used both day and
night in Pisa, or whether it was purchased by him in his last days to
serve as part of the furniture of Leigh Hunt’s Pisan apartments.
Anyhow, its authenticity as a relic of the author of Epipsychidion is
beyond all cavil.—“ Atheneeum," October 26£A, 1878.
A Four-Yeab-Old Preacher!—There is now in Louisville a little
negress who is a perfect child wonder. She is a Scriptural marvel.
She does not even know her letters, yet she can quote accurately almost
any passage in the Bible. At the age of nine months she could talk,
and would frequently tell her mother what her idea of heaven was. As
she grew older she would sit for hours and expatiate on the beauties and
glories of the other world. The old coloured folks would listen to her
sayings for hours. A reporter interrogated her—“ What is your name,
little girl? ” “ Alice Coatny.” “ How old are you? ” “ Ise just four
years and twenty-eight daysbid to-night.’’ “Where were you born? ”
“ I was born in Liverpool, England—’cross de Atlantic.” “ How long
since you felt the power within you? ” “ I don’t know; Ise always felt
the power of God.” “What do you talk about when you speak to a
crowd ? ” “I talk about Jesus, about heavenly things, about how Jesus
died and was crucified; how He rose again in three days and sitteth at
the right hand of God.” “ Can you spell ? ” “No, sir; I don’t know
my A B C’s yet.” She then went on in a rapturous strain about things
Biblical and spiritual, completely non-plussing the reporter. She was
accompanied by two coloured men. They talked in an enthusiastic
manner about her. She said in her conversation that she believed in
two kinds of baptism. She spoke of the different modes of salvation ;
how to reach Paradise ; how to be converted from a bad man to a good
one, &c. Her sayings were entirely original, and were not spoken in a
hesitating voice, but in a quick, keen, and forcible manner. As young
as she is, a negress, without education in the principles she sets forth,
her power partakes strongly of the marvellous.—Louisville-Courier
Journal.
A CURIOUS STORY ABOUT ISABELLA OF SPAIN AND A
SACRED CROSS.
(From the u Fanner of LiyhtJ')
I have a valued friend and correspondent, Dr. J. Milton Sanders,
formerly of this city, quite a noted man of science, now residing in
San Domingo City, Island of San Domingo, of the West Indies, who in
a recent letter to me wrote, among a great many other things, as
follows:—
“ San Domingo City, 1877.
“ The Hon. A. G. W. Carter.—My Dear Friend,—I will give you
some information regarding this old city of Christopher Columbus. I
would begin by acquainting you with the fact that the remains of the
‘ great Admiral ’ have lately been discovered in the cathedral here.
About one hundred years ago the Spanish took what they conceived to
be the remains of Columbus from this city, and conveying them to
Havana, they deposited them in the cathedral there. But it appears
that they were mistaken, and took the remains of Bartholomew, the
brother of Columbus, instead. At that time this cathedral (built here by
the great navigator himself) was in the hands of the monks. These
cunning gentry, it now appears, fooled the Spaniards, giving them the
remains of Bartholomew for Christopher.
“ Not long ago, as the workmen were excavating in the cathedral
here, they came to a solid leaden sarcophagus, with the initials of
Columbus on the outside. On the inside was his entire name in solid
gold letters. This is no deception, for before the coffin was opened all
the consuls here were summoned to be present, and they all saw the
name inside of it. This caused great exultation here, and corresponding
chagrin in Spain and Havana.
“ By the way, now that I am upon the subject of the ‘ grand
Admiral,’ I would mention that when Columbus left on his first voyage
of discovery, Queen Isabella had a beautiful cross made, and gave it to
Columbus, with the request that he would erect it upon the first land he
discovered, so that beneath it they could give thanks to God for his
guidance of the little Pinta to her destination. The piece of wood I
enclose to you is a piece of that identical cross. It has been deposited
here in the cathedral ever since Columbus erected it. As a fragment of
it had to be removed in order to make it fit the new altar, it was
resolved to divide the portion so cut off, and distribute the pieces
among the consuls and other important personages here. The piece I
send you was given to me by Mr. Paul Jones, our consul here. There
is no doubt of its being a portion of 1 the true cross' ”
Enclosed in this letter I found a small bit of wood which appeared
to me to be of black walnut, and of course I prized it highly as a great
curiosity. I afterwards received from my friend other small pieces of
this true cross, and one of these a short time ago I sent to my sister,
Mrs. Emma Carter (who is an excellent medium), at Cincinnati, and told
her to hold it in her hand by herself alone, and see what would come
of it. It seems she did so, and the other day she sent me the following
as the result of the psychometric manifestation through her, saying for
herself, “ I write this much from holding the little piece of Isabella’s
cross to-day : ”—
“ To Judge Carter.—Respected Sir of the Nineteenth Century,—In
behalf of the cross I, Isabella of Spain, presented to the noble
Christopher Columbus on his first voyage of discovery of a new con¬
tinent, in the year of our Lord 1492, I do claim that the said cross was
the support upon which the life of Christopher Columbus hung. But
for its power the whole ship’s crew would have mutinied, Columbus
been overthrown, and a failure the result of the enterprise.
“ Upon the discovery of land, Christopher Columbus, in his royal
robes, presented by me, and bearing the Spanish colours, leaped to the
land, followed by an ecclesiastical priest, and the crew carrying the
sacred cross. An altar was raised to Heaven by them, and a solemn
mass Christianised the new-found world. To Columbus and Isabella of
Spain remain the glory of America’s discovery! To the cross, be it
said, yet lives the power—its centre pole perpendicular in space, its
arms circling the earth, and the dead Christ powerfully ruling the im-
! prisoned soul.
“In this nineteenth century Isabella would have her daughter
I America fight for greater freedom ! If she fail by the right of speech,
I let her handle the might of arms to crush tyranny and set upon the
I throne, both religious and political, the principles of the individual
| rights of both the sexes.”
So you see how easy it is for us of the spiritual faith and knowledge
I to bring even centuries together, and make of them an ever present! I
j have little or no doubt about what this spirit Isabella tells us in refer-
! ence to the cross she presented to Columbus, that it was the sacred
| symbol by which the ship’s crews of that first voyage of discovery
| were held together, and if it had not been for its presence among them
| they would have mutinied against him, and cast him into the sea, as
| was Jonah of old. It is an historical fact that the crews of Columbus
before discovering land were about to mutiny, and it is said that
Columbus, the day before land in the far-off horizon was announced
| from the look-out, promised his unruly companions that if land was
I not discovered on or before the morrow he would cast about his flag-
1 ship, the little Pinta, and return to Spain. But the morrow came,
and the land of San Salvador was descried as a cloud in the horizon far
] away.
I I trust the readers of the Banner will find as much interest and
pleasure in reading this account as 1 found in the occurrence of the
I facts which I have here narrated, whether they have full confidence in
all that is said or not. A. G. W. Carter.
New York, 1878.
j We regret to state that Mrs. Bellew is still suffering severely from
‘ the effects of the Sittingbourne railway accident.
216
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 1, 1878.
MR. A. R. WALLACE’S “TROPICAL NATURE.”*
(Abridged from a Review in “ The Times.'’)
Although Mr. Wallace lias been accused of having a powerful
imagination, so powerful as to be misleading, we do not think that he
himself would lay any claim to that form of the representative faculty
essential to the poet. The reader need not take up this volume in the
expectation of finding in it any gorgeous and vague descriptions of
tropical scenery and life, any of those characteristic reproductions in
which Kingsley revels in his At Last. Mr. Wallace possesses, how¬
ever, in an eminent degree the power of clear and instructive descrip¬
tion, and in the volume before us he gives us the elements which we
may combine for ourselves into a thousand pictures, none of which are
likely to surpass reality. About one-half of Mr. Wallace’s new work is
occupied with a systematic account of the varieties of vegetable and
animal life to be met with in the tropics, from the primaeval giant of
the forest down to the insect that finds a home in a crevice of its bark.
Some timorous persons dread that the spread of scientific knowledge
will wither up all the beauty with which the face of the universe has
been clad; that it will take all the soul out of poetry, and scare away
sentiment and religion to some Edenic world where the tree of know¬
ledge has not yet been plucked. Let such persons read this volume by
Mr. Wallace. Here they have a plain and unadorned, but full and bold,
statement of the results of scientific research with regard to some of the
most beautiful and grandest features of this beautiful world, which, we
are sure, will leave most readers fuller of wonder and of a sense of the
mysterious and unseen than ever. What Mr. Wallace says with regard
to the emotions excited by colour and by music may be applied to nearly
all the varied phenomena with which his work deals; they “ seem to
rise above the level of a world developed on purely utilitarian prin¬
ciples.”
One delusion which Mr. Wallace disperses is as to the prevalence and
richness of colour among tropical flowers. The truth is that, while
patches of gorgeous colour are here and there met with, there is much
greater abundance, variety, and beauty of colour among the flowers of
temperate and sub-Arctic regions; while even in respect to the colours
of insects and the colouring of birds, Mr. Wallace has some corrections
to make in popular belief. Colour itself, he shows, is not the evanescent
and accidental feature it is commonly thought to be, but is intimately
connected with the organisation of animal and plant. A most interesting
chapter is devoted to humming birds, of which there are something like
400 species, and which are by no means confined to the tropical zone.
It is a very common delusion that these most ethereal, and probably
most combative, of created beings, feed upon the nectar of flowers—a
delusion which has often led to the death of the tiny creatures in
captivity ; the fact being that it has been proved beyond a shadow of
doubt that their main food is tiny insects, such as are often found
imbedded in the nectar of flowers. The humming-birds, Mr. Wallace
shows, are radically different from the sun-birds of the Eastern hemi¬
sphere, and, indeed, are essentially modified swifts.
To the biologist and all who take an interest in modern scientific
speculation, the chapters on the colours of animals and plants will be
specially attractive, all the more so that in the chapter on the former
subject Mr. Wallace criticises, and we venture to think invalidates, to
a considerable extent, the theories of sexual selection put forward by
Mr. Darwin to explain the conspicuous colours and other adornments
which are found on most male animals, while they are mostly absent
from the female. This is a subject which we cannot discuss here. Let
us only remind the reader that, according to Mr. Darwin’s theory, these
conspicuous differences between male and female have been gradually
developed from the fact that the latter in her selection of a mate always
gives preference to males which, in one direction or another, are adorned
the most. No, says Mr. Wallace ; the real state of the case is that the
female has little or no choice in the matter; the superabundance of
ornament in the male arises simply from his superior vitality and
energy, the most vigorous and lively males naturally having the choice
of the finest specimens of the other sex, who, poor things, probably do
not dream of having any choice in the matter. Thus, according to Mr. |
Wallace, sexual selection plays but a subordinate part, if, indeed, it |
plays any part, in the development of animal life, and the main, if not
the only factor to be taken into account, is natural selection. We do not j
pronounce in favour of one or the other; we simply state the case as between
these two eminent exponents of the theory of development, and we have
no doubt it will give rise to some lively controversy among the disciples
of the two theories. Those, however, who know Mr. Wallace in con¬
nection with certain “ other-worldly ” manifestations, know that he is
not an extreme evolutionist; and, although he makes continual refer¬
ence to the theory as explaining many of the phenomena of the tropics,
still it is abundantly evident that he regards it only as applying to a
method of action adopted by an unseen intelligent power to carry out
the system of the universe of which He is the author ; that while science
can explain the raison d'etre of many of the phenomena in the universe,
still the old-fashioned methods of explaining the purpose subserved by
these may also be quite consistent with truth. Because we know by
what means the flowers are tinted and the birds bedecked, can tell how
the Alps have been sculptured, and show the moon, not as a pale-faced
goddess, but a withered planet, must, therefore, the face of the universe
lose all beauty for us—must poetry become impossible, and atheism in¬
evitable ?
What Mr. Wallace says with respect to the colours of flowers, and of
the colour-sense and its origin in man and animals, is extremely inte¬
resting. Speaking of the historical development of the colour-sense in
man, he refers to the recent controversy as to the sense of colour among
the Greeks, and to the colour-terms in ancient literature generally, and
concludes that the only deficiency was one of nomenclature.
The two concluding chapters are on “ by-paths in the domain of
biology,’’ the author’s address at the Glasgow meeting of the British
Association, and “ the distribution of animals as indicating geographical
changes,” a lecture given last autumn at the Geographical Society, and
of which we gave an abstract at the time.
Altogether Mr. Wallace has done well to gather into this form the
results of his own long-continued observations, as well as those of others,
on tropical animal and vegetable life. The book is evidently meant to
be a “popular” one, and there is nothing in it that the intelligent
general reader will not understand. Mr. Wallace makes no attempt to
minister to the prevailing desire to have instruction seasoned with
sensation. He tells a plain, unvarnished tale, intrinsically interesting,
thoroughly trustworthy, free from all technicalities, and likely to prove
attractive to all with a healthy appetite for information.
On Monday evening next, the fortnightly discussion meetings of the
National Association of Spiritualists will be opened at 38, Great
Russell-street, London, with a paper by Mr. J. Bonwick, F.R.G.S., on
If Soul-beliefs among the Ancient Egyptians.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
G. H. D.—You wish to anonymously publish censorious remarks about persons
with known names and addresses. Please put your name and address
for publication to your letter, thereby raising yourself to their plane in
the matter of fearlessly uttering your conscientious opinions before the
world, and wo shall be happy to print your communication. It ought not
to be shot from under cover at known people. To advocate a principle is
one thing ; to censure individuals is another.
Readers in distant foreign countries who receive The Spiritualist from
London by post are reminded that their subscriptions expire at the end
of the year, and that if they wish the supply of the journal to be con¬
tinued in 1879, their remittances should reach London by the end of next
month. Each of the present readers abroad is requested to bring
this paper under the notice of other Spiritualists, whose order of mind is
such that they ought to take it in. It is growing into the recognised
channel for international communication among Spiritualists.
Cambridge.—We cannot, on the authority of an unverified spirit message,
charge four persons with “ a foul conspiracy,” especially when the trust¬
worthiness of the four persons has been guaranteed by two well-known
Spiritualists. Without the proof, your letter would be justly libellous in
the eye of the law.
R.—Perhaps in the South Pacific some gorilla-like savages may be found so
low in intellect that when they pay a man for several years’ hire of a
plot of land, they firmly believe that he has a moral right to take all
the huts they have erected on the land without paying the owners thereof
anything for them. Such creatures would deservedly be worked too hard
by their superiors to be able to give attention to the cultivation of their
spiritual nature.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare litorary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A. ;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. Gd., post free (Illustrated with diagrams)
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Tropical Nature, and other Essays. By Alfred R. Wallace. Lohdon: Macmillan and
Co., 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST
Nov. 1, 1878.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
tliis extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them ; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals .were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . .
The Teacher. „ IT. „
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ .
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . . >
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , . . ...
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . . • .
». d.
. 16 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 G
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 5 0
. 2 6
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . *24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spikittjalist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds ...... 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhisf Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 1G
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Trans»ated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fisko, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind!; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... ... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Altoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced iy Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, IP. (7.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Hontgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“ As a dispassionate scientific man, die appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr, Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical."—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and ‘hose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Charter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Medlumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—^Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Hex bert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Pi-cofi of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. O. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Fender’s Abuse of Spirituaiists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Variey, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Punphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Eoss-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Eevd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t&
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes. C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society agd the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, jEI 10s.
London; W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
iii
Price five shillings. Crown Svo. Post free. Cloth, red edges ,
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHO GRAPH Y,,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
synopsis oe contents.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychograpliy in the Past: Guldehstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. II. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidenee of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, B. H.Valter, J.L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II  From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. It.Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III  From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation ol
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adsbead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Coliyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 6s. Imperial Svo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to p resent or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given tlu'ough
the writing-mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon)”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—" O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship ol
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakol—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—‘‘ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D .—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthc dox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “M.A , Os.on.’’
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrisou—The Predieion.
By Alice Wolthington (Ennesfalleii)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Naiura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzi;;) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harris m—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Caldcr—
Dirge. By Mrs. Erie Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Mass.jy—
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism
By Lisette Makdougail Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Kuss.e,
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism And
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
IV
THE SPIKIT D ALIST.
Nov. 1, 1878.
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW TO PREVENT
MATURE DEATH BY
DISEASE AND PRE-
NATURAL MEANS.
T" ORD BEAOONSFIELD justly seated the other
^ day that “ the health of tlxe people Is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
FNO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO'S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure, for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Siomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
Tj^NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO'S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENG’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1S77.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
I.?NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
S-J “Since I have used ENG’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
E
NO’S’ FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
“Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.” '•
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
N .THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
3TiNO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.  ;  
ENG’S FRUIT SALT
i s particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
E
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus oi itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
retreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
orless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
out very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
tlie benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please. — I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, , “W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 80,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
Cf AUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
y Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—End’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Pam—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings,
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother-in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobolejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “with an appreciably successful result."
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability... . Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fall to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“ In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself... . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-boob elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Bngoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays,"
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“ A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa 1
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor ana Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gUt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late ‘Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. Cd post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d, per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Tnnsference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—^Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental: Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extaeis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S >i ritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of i’nrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals —SnaU Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Hseful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment ot Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHARTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision-tits
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcratt—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Eelt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions ot
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student-~Opposition to he Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—^Production of the Mesmeric 'Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: "W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing "Works, Fullwood’u Rents, High Holhorn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, Lond m. and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, Londc n,E.C,
