Fegisteeed as a NeWsfaper
SK© 0^ f)^YdSOI<Oaid®I<
#Itef toHIj S^irxlwaBsm m (&xmi prflw*
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosquc 246. Boule
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia
ROME : Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S,: “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 340. (Vol. XIV.—No. 9.) LONDON : FRIDAY^ FEBRUARY 28, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
‘ From Whence Cometh My Help.’’ By J. A. Campbell... 97
The Hydesville Manifestations:—Statement of Mrs. and
Miss Pulver—Statement of Mrs, Hannah Weekman—
Statement of Michael Weekman—Statement of Mrs.
Lape ...      97
Sunday Services at the Cavendish Rooms   98
The National Association of Spiritualists    99
American Tribute to the Memory of the Late George
7Ct.Thompson 100
Science and Spiritualism. By Henry G. Atkinson, Author
of Letters to Miss Martineau     101
A Seance in a Haunted House in Natal 101
Seances with a Modified Cabinet.—Slate-Writing Mani¬
festations. By Charles Blackburn 102
The Late Mr. George Thompson’s Recognition of Spirit¬
ualism    102
The Funeral of Dr. Hallock  103
Dr. Slade and “ Spirit Identity." By C. 0. Massey  103
Mr. and Mrs. Varley’s Ball    103'
The Memorial to the United States’ Government about
Spiritualism   ■ .'. ... ...: 104-
Correspondence:—The Science of Mind—The Religious
Aspects of Spiritualism—Thought-Reading and Con¬
juring—Seances with London Mediums : 105
My Mother's Garden.—By Ella Dietz. (Poetry.) 1.08
To Correspondents...  108
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record oj the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rnHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
Jl oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual"
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica-
ions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement 61 Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness ;GIis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeid (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.): Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Alcsakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author oi
the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. O.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.O.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling,
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
In the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W.H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper BranchOffice, 38. Great Russell-street London, W.O.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERISfor 1879, containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free,' 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal- deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. O,.,, .1+ •>„
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lan 10til ^llt> '
e, E.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS.
The Offices of the Association will be open between the
hours of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except
Saturday, when they will be open between the hours of 2 p.m.
and 6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR MARCH, 1879.
Monday, 3rd.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Paper by Dr. George Wyld on “ Christian
Occultism.”
Wednesday, 5th.—Soirde Committee at 5 p.m.
„ „ House and Offices Committee at
5.30 pm.
Friday, 7th, and every succeeding Friday.—^Experi¬
mental Research Committee at 6.30 pm.
Tuesday, VUh.—Finance Committee at 6 pm.
„ „ Council Meeting at 6.30 pm.
Monday, 17th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Paper by Mr. Alexander Calder on “ The
New Era."
Wednesday, 2Gth.—Library Committee at 4.30 p.m.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
RESEARCH COMMITTEE.
TO MEDIUMS:
This Committee, having in their charge the “ Weighing
Apparatus ” presented to the Association by Mr. C. Blackburn
for the purpose of obtaining absolute evidence of certain phe¬
nomena occurring in the presence of “physical” mediums,
invite such mediums, public or private, to communicate with
them with a view to experiments with the apparatus in
question. Desmond G. Fitzgerald,
(Chairman of Committee).
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman-roAd, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of hooks on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sbo.
The Religion op Spiritualism.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Will LECTURE
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
At the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer Street, W.
Admission Free.
Lecture begins at 7.30. Doors closed at 7.45.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following Engagements:—Hastings, Gensing Hall,
Afternoon and Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial
Society, February 4. Plymouth Mechanics’ Institute, February
12 (second time this season). Redruth Institution, February
13. Truro Institution, February 14 (second time this season).
Leamington Institute, February 25. Finchley (Church end),
February 27. Croydon Literary Institution, March 6 (second
time). Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-
street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
March 12th, April 9th, May 14th, June 11th. Tickets 6s., 3s.,
2s., and Is.
N.B.—The Second Recitation of the Series will be given on
Friday, February 28, instead of Ash Wednesday, February 26.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. 4. January. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Is Immortality a Delusion ? By Epes Sargent.
II.—Sister Celeste. By J. C. Earle.
III. —Spiritual Philosophy in Relation to Death and Spirit Life.
By Rev. J. Page Hopps.
IV. —Inspiration. No. 2. By Mrs. De Morgan.
V.—Reminiscences of George Thompson. By his Daughter,
Mrs. Nosworthy,
VI.—Zetalethes, the Truthseeker. By Miss Greenfield.
VII.—The Mound-Builders. By William Denton.
VIII.—Montanism.
Materialistic Mysticism—A Geologist's Confession—The Seat
of Evil,
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O
A YOUNG GENTLEMAN will be glad of any
office, manuscript, or literary employment. Highest
references. Address A. B. C., Sherborne Lodge, Tracey-street,
Kennington-road, London.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox. I
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS' BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co. London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Feh. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living."
Feh. 17.—Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kislingbury’s Paper.
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism."
March 17.—Mr. Calder, “ The New Era.”
April 7.—Mr. Morell Theobald, “Experiences in the Home
Circle,” No. 2.
April 21.—
May 5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.TeLE., “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise..
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “Review of the Session.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & CO.
Show Rooms:—& Ludgate Circus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of-printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
J. TURNER,
LOCKSMITH, BELLHANGER, AND GASFITTER,
Stove and Range Maker,
1, HIGH STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Every description of Patent Close Fire Kitcheners repaired
and fixed.
 Hot Water, Steam, and Bath Fittings. 
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Sonthampton-huildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
  FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 28, 1879.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Ca'dcr, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.TV.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coletnan. Beniamin, 1. Bernard.-viUas, Unper Korwood.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs., 19, Caiwbi-idg.e-Street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G-> M.s.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Honywood Mrs.. S2, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F A.. 24, St. Ann s-sauare. Manchester
Bonwick, J„ F.R.G.S.. Yale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, dohn.lO. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W, H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar.” Portsmouth;
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, a, Portman-street, Portman-square, 'W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Eomauds, T. H . 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59; Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton. R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald. Mrs. D. G.. fi. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F-, Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill. Kent.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20. Deiamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hunt. Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Barf , Lamnort-hall, Northampton,
.Toad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon. S.W.
Lsmont, John, 199, London-road. Liverpool.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street,' W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, ,T J., Elm Tree-terrace, TTttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., TTniversity College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, 'Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C.. 15. Harnur-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C„ 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Reirrers. Christian, 47, Morning*on-road Regent’s-Park.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8, Museum-villas. Oxford. ’
Theobald, Morel!, 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh. 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., X, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alsx. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W, Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg. Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, tel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,C.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell. La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq ., Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy 1,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town,South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de TEurope,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre.Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Lieut -Col. P. Jacoby, 11 :Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test, Esq., M.D.. Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
Loncon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq.,, F.R.G.S,, Waidrpn Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mcl'le. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake Cit^Tutah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epc'jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock. 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel. 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T, Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street. Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 58, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T- Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
£% OVERNMENT PROSECUTIONS FOR
aDT MEDICAL HERESY: a Verbatim Report of the Case
“ Regina v. Tebb.” Dedicated to the Board of St. Pancras
Guardians, London. With letters from the Right Hon. W. E.
Gladstone, M.P., the Right Hon. John Bright, M.P., and others.
Forty pp.. Price 2d., or Is. 9d. per dozen, or 12s. per 100. This
pamphlet should he circulated largely during elections of
Guardians and Members of Parliament. Published by Edward
W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.,
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
T. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d.,paper cover, “Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
® By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE, COM
PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It shows
(we think successfully) that every form of mediumship, now so
familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of
identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The
two bound in one, Is.—These hooks, consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrowing
parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer.St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. E. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN, "
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At_ home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from S o'clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
0 engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
TV/S'ISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
-LtJL Jubilee-street, Oommercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
MRS. M. G. PARKER, MESMERIC
. HEALER and DEVELOPING MEDIUM, 66, War-
wick-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Franklin
gives Seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Brunswiek-square,
from 2 to 5, every day except Sunday, and every evening from
8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engagements can be made
by letter sent to the above address.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE-
V_y ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients and maybe consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campcken-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Olairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vemon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 6. Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday evenings, office hours, owing to press of business,
extended to nine o’clock.
A SELECT CIRCLE is in course of forma¬
tion to hold weekly/Seances with a Physical Medium.
Applicants wishing to join said circle are requested to send
names and addresses to B. O., care of Miss Burke, 33,,Great
Russell-street, W.O.—Each member is expected to contribute
his quota towards suitable remuneration of the Medium.
TTnnali dello spIritTsMo In
-Ol ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15ih of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, vifi Boglno, No. 23.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fondfi par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1 st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSICHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Motze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
Brighton.—miss wood, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. — Terms on
application.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, hoard and all included, £3 per week
each ; or, for two persons,£2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Gos-
sonnerie, Paris.
% li'r.orb ol % yijnjr^LS ttf atth ']Mfe of jlptfitmEsttt.
No. 340.—Volume Fourteen; Number Nif<E.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28th, 1879.
“ FROM WHENCE COMETH MS'HELP.” !
BY J. A. CAMPBELL. i )
A few heathery hills and a snow-capped one, some sprays
of harebell and patches of buttercups, with dividing irregu- rl|
larities of greenest grass on the sides of them, and three little | i
boisterous, babbling Highland streams, clear as crystal, in |
their quiet side-pools, where rarely they have a mind to rest, !
and reveal to you tiny palaces of amber rock, where the min- ] t
nows spend their honeymoons ere they go forth down-hill to I
see the large world of waters below which men call Loch j
Awe, and end their days on the hook of some murderously I
idle tourist. Poor little minnows ! But why did I talk about j
you brotherling, you and your home? Oh, to explain why |
I send this funny little poem to The Spiritualist, which tells j \
how it all looked to me when Donald and I were lying on j
the braes that long summer afternoon before he went to the i
Silent Land, and I learnt to believe in Saxondom ; and to j
prevent anyone else thinking that I was n Dramatising the I
Day of Judgment,” as a dear lady of practical powers and j
evangelical opinions did, when she stole my manuscript I
book and judged me interestingly mad” after reading what ]
follows :— 11
Whiteness and light and mystery, j (
And the blue sky surrounding thee, ]
* Oh mighty, veiled Divinity ! '
Kneeling around thee in sublime repose,
Earth’s monarchs are adoring thee
In fullest folds the royal purple flows
Down from their shoulders lavishly;
With sapphire wrought, and emerald and gold,
And a deep diamond bed in every fold ;
White pearls thick scattered and half hiding it,
For me, a Patmos vision every whit,
In Braudu Pass this Thursday in July.
THE HYDESYILLE MANIFESTATIONS.
We have received the following letter from Mrs. Jencken:— j
Sib,—In The Spiritualist of Jan. 24th, in your article of “ Haunt-
ings and Apparitions,’’ you stated that in well-known documentary
evidence, the house my parents occupied in Hydesville, where Spirit¬
ualism took its origin in the year 1848, through my sister Margaret and
myself, was haunted long before my dear parents went to live in it.
This is a sad mistake, as there has never been such a thing as the
authentication of such a statement. Repeated efforts were made by
some of the leading people in Rochester to obtain knockings when
none of our family were present, without the least success; and pre¬
vious to my dear parents living in the house no ghostly sounds were
ever heard there.
I make this correction at once, as I do not think it reasonable it
should remain uncontradicted in a journal like yours, which has a wide
circulation and admitted character for truthfulness.
I also state what I have got to say now, because the witnesses to the
fact are living and accessible. Oblige me by giving publicity to this
letter in your paper, and believe me, very truly yours,
Katie Fox-Jencken.
397, Fulham-road, Feb. Hth.
The testimony is contradictory as to whether the house at
Hydesville, the birthplace of modern Spiritualism, was
haunted or not before Mr. Fox and his family took up their
abode there. Perhaps Mrs. Jencken is unaware of the
existence of the evidence we are about to quote, or knows
something to vitiate its trustworthiness. Any light which
can be thrown on the matter will be of historical value.
The following statements are quoted from Modern Spirit¬
ualism ; its Facts and Fanaticisms. By E. W. Capron (Bela
Marsh, Hew York: 1855) :—
H The house at which the manifestations first commenced,
* Ben Oruach.au was seen lighted, snow-capped, and half revealed in mist.
that have turned the eyes of the people of this generation to
a more minute and careful investigation of spiritual pheno¬
mena than has characterised any preceding age, stancls
among a cluster of houses known by the name of Hydesville,
in the town of Arcadia, county of Wayne, and State of New
York. It is a small framed building, one and a half stories
high, and, at the time of the occurrences which have made
it a matter of interest and curiosity to so many thousands,
bore unmistakable evidences of age; and had been the humble
shelter of many a family previous to that of Mr. Fox.”
STATEMENT OE MBS. AND MISS PULYEK.
“ It has generally been supposed, and so published, in most
of the accounts of the commencement of these phenomena,
that the sounds were first heard when the house was occupied
by a Mr. Weekman. This seems to be an error, as there
are, at least, two witnesses, whose testimony is recorded in a
small pamphlet published by E. E. Lewis, Esq., at Canan¬
daigua, N.Y., in 1848, who testify to the sounds being
heard by a family who occupied the same house in 1844.
These witnesses are Mrs. Ann Pulver and Miss Lucretia
! Pulver. The former testifies as follows :—
“‘I was acquainted with Mr. and Mrs. (who occupied
| the house in 1844). I used to call on them frequently. My
warping bars were in the chamber, and I used to go there to
] do my work. One morning when I went there Mrs. 
| told me that she felt very bad ; that she had not slept much,
if any, the night before. When I asked her what the matter
| was, she said she did not know but what it was the fidgets ;
! but she thought she heard somebody walking about from
one room to another, and that she had Mr. get up and
I' fasten down all the windows. She said she felt more safe
after that. I asked her what she thought it was. She said
I it might be rats. I heard her speak about hearing noises
after that which she could not account for.’
“ Miss Lucretia Pulver, in her testimony, says : 11 lived
in this house all one winter, in the family of Mr. . I
| worked for them part of the time, and part of the time I
boarded and went to school. I lived there about three
| months. During the latter part of the time that I was
there I heard this knocking frequently, in the bedroom,
| under the foot of the bed. I heard it a number of nights,
| as I slept in the bedroom all the time that I staid there.
I One night I thought I heard a man walking in the buttery.
I This buttery is near the bedroom, with a stairway between.
| Miss Aurelia Lozey staid with me on that night; she also
I heard the noise, and we were both much frightened, and got
j up, and fastened down the windows and fastened the door.
I It sounded as if a person walked through the buttery, down
I cellar, and part way across the cellar bottom, and there the
j noise would cease. There was no one else in the house at
I this time, except my little brother, who was asleep in the
! same room with us. This was about twelve o’clock, I should
| think. We did not go to bed until after eleven, and had
not been asleep when we heard the noise. Mr. and Mrs.
' I  had gone to Loch Berlin, to be gone until the next'
I day.’
‘ ‘ It seems, then, that these noises had been common to the
II house for some years before the Fox family occupied it. In
| the year 1874, it was occupied by Mr. Michael Weekman.
>:j Mr. Weekman and his family are not to be numbered among
11 the superstitious and credulous ; at least, their neighbours
|! never thought them so before they made their statements in
j regard to the occurrences at their house. As it may be of
) I importance, hereafter, to have all the proofs in regard to the
i first introduction of the modern manifestations, I will here
j introduce the testimony of Mr. and Mrs. Weekman. The
i certificates are those originally given to E. E. Lewis, Esq.,
11 and published as before stated,”
98
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 28, 1879.
STATEMENT OF MBS. HANNAH WEEKMAN.
i( We have lived in this place about five months. I have j
heard about the mysterious noises that have been heard in I
the house now occupied by Mr. Fox. We used to live in the j
same house; we lived there about a year and a half, and J
moved from there to the house we now occupy. About a j
year ago, while we were living there, we heard some one, as j
we supposed, rapping on the outside door. I had just got j
into bed, but my husband had not. He went and opened it, j
and said that there was no one there. He came back, and j (
was about getting into bed, when we heard the rapping on | J
the door again. He then went to the door and opened it, j i
and said that he could see no one, although he stepped out j i
a little way. He then came back and got into bed. He was j
quite angry; he thought it was some of the neighbouring j
boys trying to disturb us, and said that (they might knock j
away, but they would not fool him,’ or something of that i
kind. The knocking was heard again ; and after a while he i
got up, and went to the door and went out. I told him not j
to go out-doors, for perhaps somebody wanted to get him |
out and hurt him. He came back, and said he could see j
nothing. We heard a good deal of noise during the night; j
we could hardly tell where it was ; it sounded, sometimes, j
as if some one was walking in the cellar. But the house j
was old, and we thought it might be the rattling of loose j
boards, or something of that kind. !
“A few nights afterwards, one of our little girls, who i
slept in the bedroom where the noises are now heard, woke j
us all up by screaming very loud. My husband and I, and j
our hired girl, got up immediately to see what was the |
matter. She sat up in bed, crying and screaming, and it |
was some time before we could find out what the matter was. I
She said that something had been moving about, over her j
head and face—that it was cold, and she did not know what j
it was. She said that she felt it all over her, but she was j
most alarmed at feeling it on her face. She was very much j
frightened. This was between twelve and one o’clock at j
night. She got up and got into bed with us, and it was a j
long time before she could go to sleep. It was several days j
before we could get her to sleep in that room again. She was j
eight years old at that time. j
“ Nothing else happened to me during the time that we !
lived there; but my husband told me that one night he 1
heard some one call him by name, somewhere in the house j
—he did not know where—but could never find out where j
or what it was. I was not at home that night. I was j j
sitting up with a sick person. We did. not think the house j1
was haunted at that time. , 1
‘£ I do not believe in spooks, or anything of that kind; jj
but I hardly know what to say about it now; so many have j I
heard the noises that it seemed as if something was the
matter.
(Signed) “ Hannah Weekman.
“ Tuesday, April 11, 1848.” (
STATEMENT OF MICHAEL WEEKMAN. J
“ I am the husband of Hannah Weekman. We used to I j
live in the house now occupied by Mr. Fox, in which they jj j
say strange noises are heard. We lived there about a year (1
and a half. One evening, about bed-time, I heard the IJ
rapping. I supposed it was some one knocking at the door, j J
who wanted to come in. I did not bid him * come in’ as I K
usually do, but went to the door. I did not find any one j 1
there ; but went back, and just as I was getting into bed, I ! J
heard the rapping again, and opened the door quick, but j1
could see no one there. I stepped out a step or two, but i!
could see no one about there.' I then went back and got into j
bed. I thought some one was making game of me. After |
a few minutes I heard the knocking again, and after waiting j
a few minutes, and still hearing it, I got up and went to the j
door. This time I went clear out and looked around the |
house, but could find no one. I then stepped back and shut j
the door, and held on to the latch, thinking that if there j
was any one there I would catch them at it. In a minute or j j
two I heard the rapping again. My hand was on the door, |
and the knocking appeared to be on the door. I could feel [ |
it jar with the raps. I instantly opened the door, and j
sprang out; but there was no one in sight. I then went i
round the house again, but could find no one, as before. My j j-
wife told me I had better not go out of doors, as it might i-'
be some one that wanted to hurt me. I did not know what
to think of it, it seemed so strapge and unaccountable.”
(He here relates the case of the little girl being frightened,
as given above.)
“ One night after this, about midnight, I was awake, and
heard my name called. It sounded as if it was on the south
side of the room. I sat up in bed and listened, but did not
hear it again. I did not get out of bed, but waited to see if
it would be repeated. My wife was not at home that night.
I told her of it afterwards, and she said she guessed I had
been dreaming. My wife used to be frightened quite often
by hearing strange noises in and about the house.
<e I have heard so much from men in whom I place confi¬
dence about these noises that are now heard, that, taken in
connection with what I heard, I cannot account for it, unless
it is a supernatural appearance. I am willing to make
affidavit to the above facts, if necessary.
(Signed) “ Miohael Weekman.
“ llth April, 1848.”
STATEMENT OF MBS. LABE.
“ Mrs. Jane C. Lape testified as follows : ‘ I am the wife of
Henry Lape, and am nineteen years of age. I lived with
Mr. Weekman’s folks, about a year and a half ago, when he
occupied the house where Mr. Fox now lives. I stayed
there until the spring of 1847. One day, about two o’clock
p.m., while I was doing my work in the kitchen, I saw a
man in the bedroom adjoining the kitchen. The bedroom
door was open, and I saw the man distinctly. I was much
frightened. I had been in the kitchen some time at work,
and knew no one had gone into that room. There was only
one door to the bedroom joining the kitchen. The man
stood facing me when I saw him. He did not speak, nor
did I hear any noise at the time like a person walking or
moving about the room. He had on grey pants, black frock-
coat, and black cap. He was about middling size, I should
think, I knew of no person in that vicinity who wore a
similar dress. Mrs. Weekman was in another part of the
house at the time. I was very much frightened, and left
the room, and when I returned with Mrs. Weekman there
was no one there. She thought it was some one who had
been trying to frighten me; but we were never able to
ascertain who or what it was. I have always thought, and
still do think, that it was a supernatural appearance. I
never had been a believer in such things until I saw this. I
am willing to testify to the above statement.
(Signed) ( Jane C. Lape.’ ”
“ We hear nothing more of Mr. Weekman being disturbed
by the rapping or other manifestations, or there being any¬
thing of the kind, with that exception, until after the house
was occupied by the family of Mr. John D. Fox. It was .
reserved to that family to be the instruments of communi¬
cating to the world, or to this part of it, this most singular
affair. They were the ones who first, as if by accident,
found out that there was an intelligence manifested even in
this rapping, which at first appeared nothing more than an
annoying and unaccountable noise.”
SUNDAY SERVICES AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS.
On Sunday last the Sunday Lyceum was held at 11.80 a.m., at the
Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, London, when the attendance was
larger than before, and a new class added to those already formed. Mr.
Desmond Fitz-Gerald, the superintendent, addressed the teachers and
pupils, and then forty-five minutes were given by each teacher in hearing
from the pupils their views on the subject given out at the previous
meeting, viz.—“What is your idea of God, and what is your idea of
Man ? ” At the end of that time each teacher was called upon by the
superintendent to state as briefly as possible the thoughts and views of
his respective class.
This method of teaching, inaugurated by Andrew Jackson Davis, is
interesting and profitable to both old and young. The class will meet
next Sunday at 11 o’clock a.m. instead of 11.30 as heretofore, in order
that more time may be given to this work.
Mr. Fletcher delivered an address on Sunday evening, at 7.45, to a
large and appreciative audience. The hall was filled at an early hour.
The speaker was introduced by Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, who said :
“ We should consider ourselves extremely privileged at being able to
listen this evening to our highly-gifted friend Mr. Fletcher. The con¬
dition of Mr. Fletcher’s health warns us that we must begin to look after
our medium, and the question now is, not how much Mr. Fletcher is
willing to do for us, but whether we, as Spiritualists, can afford to accept
at his hands the use of this beautiful room, his valuable services, and
now his health 1 ’’ Mr. Fitz-Gerald further enjoined upon the audience
the necessity of harmonious feeling, thereby contributing to the success
Feb. 28, 3 879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
99
of ttte lecturer. He stated, in relation to any tests which had or might | (j
be given, that they were doubtless very exhausting to Mr. Fletcher; j j j
but if at the close of the lecture the audience should furnish favourable j /1
conditions, they might again be favoured with personal tests, as upon j (j
the previous Sunday evening. - j j
Miss Leslie Younge than sang with great expression a piece entitled j /
The Lost Chord, after which Mr. Fletcher was controlled, and announced [ ||
as his subject, “Passing through the Portal; or, the Change called j l
Death.” He said there is no such thing as death. History tells us in
that in the early times, and in the uncivilised portions of the j (|
earth, all the crude, undeveloped, and savage elements were j j j
but foundations, and necessary to the higher growth evidenced in our j j!
modern civilisation. That as each decade, had lived its life, it but i!i
passed through the portal, not to death, but to the resurrection i j!
of new forms of life in the mineral, vegetable, animal, and human i j!
kingdom. Theology teaches us that there is an immortal soul; it ! i
teaches of both death and resurrection; but it tells us nothing of passing I / j
through the portal, or of the time between their resurrection and ours. ! (]
The afflicted mother consults the clergyman regarding the whereabouts j 11
of her deceased child. The answer is, “ We hope, we trust, we believe, j /1
that your child is in heaven.” In other words, so safe in God’s | (j
arms that it is quite out of the reach of yours; so happy in j jj
listening to the songs of the angelic hosts, that it is perfectly !
insensible to the mother’s tears, and the great heart-longing that j (
mother has for her baby’s return. All this the clergyman tells ])
you he believes, but that he absolutely knows nothing. Poor |
consolation this to the eyes that gaze upon the vacant cradle; j j
for the arms that are so empty, and for the heart that wishes for its j)
baby, more than for even heaven itself. Science here enters the arena | j
of thought, and says that theological teachings of the immortal soul are j
nonsensical, that man has no soul, that it has searched through the 11
different avenues of nature, and that each line of nature furnishes some ! (;
evidence of its existence which appeals to one or all of man’s seven |! j
senses. It tells you that it has sent its most scientific men to the dis- i j j
secting room, that they there find every trace of anatomic life, but not I I
the shadow of what the religionists call soul. Failing to find this, they | j j
claim there is no soul, forgetting that when they search the dead body !) j
for animating life they are searching for that which has already left it. (j
Science tells us that as the beast dies so die we, and in this conclusion j > i
are wiser than they know; for all life is immortal, differing only in j j
degree, and as human beings have eternal life, so also has every other ! (I
form of life. Science walks boldly to the open grave, and stops. \ !
Spiritualism here enters the arena of thought and discovers the elixir of j j
life ; it shows plainly that the machinery of life, and the river of soul | I
which guides that life, are as much facts after death as before it. And the j > j
great change called death, that terrible King of Terrors, is only the j
band slipped from the machinery, is the bird outside the cage, is the I
jewel in the spiritual instead of the earthly casket; in fact, is only the j |
seventh day of rest, or the Sunday of the soul. And as on Monday the j j
operator starts the machinery in motion, so does the infinite operator ] (
of souls, after this temporary rest, set the immortal machinery in j
motion, reinvigorated and strengthened for its new life and its new ! (
duties. The great mistake made by the world is in supposing that j j
when the soul has fled the last rites are to be performed for the loved j j |
dead ; on the contrary, those rites are the Jirst rites. For now the I (
real life of the spirit begins ; and so long does the spirit linger over j j
and is connected with the old body, that the greatest care should be i)
exercised regarding that body. No strange hand should touch it—no ! (
unkind thought penetrate the sacred chamber of the body. Tears j j
should, so far as possible, be banished; music, sweetness, and love j)
should be the prevailing elements. As a bride is robed to meet her ! (
husband, so should this body be clothed, as symbolising the wedlock j
of the two worlds. Anything that would be unnatural to the spirit in i)
life is equally unnatural to the spirit in its new birth; and em- j (
balming the body, packing it in ice, or using any other of the estab- j
lished methods of preservation is a scientific torture, and only retards I )
the perfect freedom of the spirit. Truly, in the words of the poet, there j j
is no death:— j
The stars go down to rise upon some fairer shore, j j
And bright in heaven’s jewelled crown they shine for evermore. j j
There is no death. The dust we tread is quickened ’neath the summer j )
showers j (
To golden grain and mellow fruit, and rainbow-tinted flowers. ! !
And all around us, though unseen, the dear immortal spirits tread ; j j
For all the universe is life—there are no dead. I |
After the singing of a hymn by the choir, Mr. Fletcher proceeded to I j
give some tests of spirit identity, all marked in their character, and of j (
particular interest to the recipients. The public acknowledgments of ] (
their truth, which should have been made by the recipients at the i) j
time the tests were given, were subsequently made upon the chairman | j
asking any of the audience to state if they recognised their friends ; (
who had returned to them, and after the lecture other responses were ;)
given. j (
It is only fair to Mr. Fletcher that the responses should be made at j (
the time the tests are given, as this rare form of mediumship should | S j
be not only recognised, but encouraged by all who are benefited thereby, j l \
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS. j j
We have received the following letter:— j I
To the Editor of the “ Spiritualist." j) 1
SIR,':—As on more than one occasion lately you have brought my name 1) j
before the Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists, and i j i
also mentioned it in the pages of the Spiritualist, perhaps I may be allowed j (i
to ask for a little space in your next number. I am entirely indifferent to j j
hard words, such as “ trick ’* and “ subterfuge,’’ and previous to your letter to j j
Mr. Caldor in your last issue, it was not quite clear who were included in your j | j
accusation. That letter, however, says, as I understand it, that those words 1
were intended to apply to my motion in the committee. The value of your
withdrawal of them is, I submit, entirely destroyed, by the reason for doing
so which you have appended, and which in effect reiterates your belief in their
being deserved.
Under these circumstances, I feel bound simply to say, that when the words
“ general house arrangements ” were included in the resolution referring the
matter to the committee, it was distinctly understood by at least several
members of the Council that that was intended as a courteous way of
including a consideration of your tenancy. When the matter was discussed in
committee, a majority of its members were of opinion that that subject came
legitimately within its province to consider.
You further speak in your letter to Mr. Calder of the “ absence of members
of the committee who would have liked to have voted thereon had they known
what was under consideration.” So far from there being any truth in what
is implied in this remark, the committee purposely adjourned the discussion
of so important a matter from one sitting to another, in order that all its
members might be fully aware of what was being done, and special pains were
taken to facilitate the attendance of as many of its members as possible at its
final sitting.
I do not wish to disregard the express recommendation of the Council to its
members some months since, in the way in which you thought it right to do at
its last meeting, by commenting on the inner work of a committee, and giving
names and stating facts which ought not to be published, or I could make my
position much stronger.
Only one other point I will refer to, and that is to ask you to state in your
next number the exact nature of the several documents published unauthorised
by a committee. When I asked you kindly to do this before, I think you replied
in a footnote that such details were unimportant, or to that effect. But as you
have now referred to the matter again, it is only fair and right that this should
be done. Edward Bennett.
Richmond, Feb. 22nd, 1879.
In reply to the above Mr. Harrison says:—
“ When a motion was so worded as to give a committee power to deal
with a subject which the Council did not intend the committee to deal
with when it passed it, I admit with Mr. Bennett that several members
of the Council did know and, like its mover, kept silence about what
was intended. I was not one of the informed persons who looked on in
silence while this motion  the rest of the Council, and have since
resigned my seat on the board.
“ Before the committee passed the subsequent motions of Messrs.
Rogers and Bennett on the same subject, Mr. C. C. Massey told them
that several members of the Council did not know that the words of the
reference covered any such question of public policy as they were
forcing on the committee. But they persisted in their motions never¬
theless, and the committee sat twice, discussing a subject which it knew
the Council never intended it to consider.
“ If a director of a public company issues printed circulars to the
public with the name of the company at the top, and tells the public to
communicate with him at his private address, instead of with the
working officer, the secretary, and if the board of management only
discovers the existence of those circulars months afterwards by acci¬
dent, the contents of the circulars have nothing to do with the question
whether said company is well managed or otherwise.
“ The absentee members of the Council—who are better known than
four-fifths of the working members—should look after the manage¬
ment of the National Association of Spiritualists, because their names
induce the public to join it, and induce friends in foreign countries to
accept honorary membership, and have induced the past large sub¬
scriptions, also valuable gifts to the library.”
Since the foregoing was in type, I have^eceived the following letter :—
1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W., 26th February, 1879.
Dear Sir,—I have to acknowledge the receipt of your note of the 17th
instant, in which you withdraw certain words used by you at the last Council
meeting of the British National Association of Spiritualists out of “ personal
respect ” to me.
I beg to say that I think this withdrawal is insufficient, and that you owe
an ample apology to the Council, and to the General Purposes Committee, for
making charges which, in my opinion, are wholly unfounded.—Yours faithfully,
W. H. Harrison, Esq. Alex. Calder.
Directly the above was received, I sent the following reply :—
February 26th, 1879.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Dear Sir,—In reply to yours of this morning, I understand you to mean
that at all events my chief charge—that a motion in Council was so worded
as to gain for a committee power which the Council never intended to give—
is “ wholly unfounded.”
Mr. Fitz-Gerald voted for the motion, without thinking it had reference to
the unmentioned subject. I did the same. No doubt others who voted for it
will testify they did so without intending to give power to deal with the public
question unmentioned by the mover.
I endorse all the charges (so far as the facts relating to each came under my
observation) brought by Mr. C. C. Massey in his letter read at the last Council
meeting. If ho will withdraw them, and apologise, I will do the same. I am
so dispassionate in the matter, that any decision he comes to I will endorse,
and it is fortunate for me that such a trustworthy observer knows the merits
of this case in all Its details.
Meanwhile, please pick me out a single complete paragraph of mine con¬
taining a charge not demonstrably true, because until one such is quoted ver¬
batim in full, it is difficult for me to begin to think about an apology. The
word “ charges ” is too wide and vague ; besides, I have not brought half so
many charges as Mr. Massey.
If he will accept the trouble and responsibility, I shall be glad if you will
address future letters (containing the exact quotations requested) to him
about the suggested apology from me.
I am sufficiently disinterested to be willing to be bound by his equally dis¬
interested decision.—With much respect to you personally, yours very truly.
W. H. Harrison.
The new book, Spirit Identity, by “M.A. (Oxon), ” is published
to-day. About ten days hence it will be followed by A. Cleryymun
Spiritualism, with a preface by Mrs. Makdougall Gregory. Next Mr.
Harrison’s book will come out.
100
THE SPIBJ.TTJALIST.
Feb. 28, 1879.
AMERICAN TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF THE LATE ! i
GEORGE THOMPSON. • ' ' . ' n
The respect for the memory of that firm Spiritualist, the I j
late Mr. George Thompson, the slavery abolitionist, and |
former M.P. for the Tower Hamlets, is shown by a meeting |)
held in honour of his memory in Boston, Mass., and i
reported as follows in The Boston Journal of Feb. 4th last:— i
The ranks of the Old Guard are being decimated by the inexorable i i
) and of time. The Old Guard that fought in the van of the great |
battle for the freedom of the African race, to beat off the manacles from I
the slave. A few remain, frosted and glorified by the touch of age, and |
it was a happy idea that led the Wendell Phillips Club—composed of |
the leading coloured citizens of the West End—to hold a reunion at the ;
North Russell-street Church last evening of the Old Guard of |
Abolitionists in commemoration of the life and services of Geprge If
Thompson, the English Liberator, recently deceased. The Reception |
Committee was composed of William H. Dupree, President of the j
Club; Robert Morris, James M. Trotter, Lewis Hayden, H. S. j)
Brown, James H. Wolf, John J. Smith, George W. Lowther, and E. j J
W. Lawton, and the invitations were signed by George L. Ruffin, j
Charles L. Mitchell, T. R. Watson, E. W. Smith, and G. H. White as I
Executive Committee. Among those present in addition to those named, j
and most of whom were veterans in the anti-slavery ranks, were Dr. i
Henry I. Bowditch, the Hon. James N. Buffum and Charles Buffum (of j
Lynn), Thomas L. Harmon, Robert Brown Mowry, Lewis Ford, j
Robert Wolcott, William Crafts, the Rev. R. C. Waterstone, Father j
Henson, Charles K. Whipple, and others. Letters, in addition to the j |
others noted below, were received from Wendell Phillips, Lydia Maria j j
Child, the Rev. James Freeman Clarke, Lysander S. Richards, and i)
George W. Carnes, regretting their inability to be present. Two large I (
paintings of Mr. Thompson were exhibited, and a large audience of j j
both white and coloured fcitizens listened with interest to the exercises, i)
Mr. William H. Dupree, the President of the Club, called the meet- I j
ing to order and read the circular call, after which the secretary, Mr. i j
James M. Trotter, read a poem which was addressed to Mr. Thompson |
by Lydia Maria Child, in 1835 :— I (
I’ve heard thee when thy powerful words j \
Were like the cataract’s roar, j )
Or like the ocean’s mighty waves ’ i\
Resounding on the shore. - j(
But even in reproof of sin \ )
Love brooded oyer all, ~ ! {
As the mild rainbow’s heavenly arch j (
Rests'on the waterfall. j)
I’ve heard thee in the hour of prayer, , |"|
When dangers were around ; j )
Thy voice was fike the royal harp | . ; . j )
That breath’d a charmed sound. . j (
The evil spirit felt its power,
And howling turn’d away;
And some, perchance, “ who came to scoff, i )
Remained with thee to pray.” j j
I’ve seen thee, too, in playf ul mood, j (
When words of magic spell • i )
Dropp’d from thy lips like fairy gems,
That sparkled as they fell. j (
Still great and good in every change ! . j )
Magnificent and mild! | /
As if a ^eraph’s godlike power , j (
Dwelt in a little child. i)
. ' • 1 |f
Mr. George W. Putnam, who travelled for several years with Mr. i j
Thompson as his private secretary, then delivered a commemorative !
address.. He said his life was ^crowded with incidents intimately con- ! j
nected with the great reforms of the world. He was born in Liverpool !
in 1804, and his father was for a time engaged in the African slave j
trade, in which many prominent merchants were at that time engaged, j
He went out as clerk on a slave ship, but as soon as he realised the i
enormity of the traffic he sought means to leave the ship and return to j
his home. His father was poor, and he had scant opportunity for |
education, but he had a kind and loving mother. The religious element j
in his nature was very strong. He was early employed as an under j
secretary in tbe Methodist Mission House, and while there, from the ]
letters of the missionaries, he learned of the terrible effects of slavery j
in the Colonies. Mr. Putnam proceeded to give somewhat in detail the j j
early life of Mr. Thompson, showing that he entered upon the anti- !)
slavery work by answering an advertisement for an advocate of anti- i
slavery which was published by Zachary Macaulay, father of the great j
historian; that when he commenced lecturing on Colonial slavery he j (
had never been to the West Indies and had never seen a slave, but his
eloquence overcame the forebodings of jthe Quakers with whom he was
first called to speak. He soon had such hosts of engagements through¬
out England that he travelled day and night to meet them, and his fame
as an orator became as familiar to the people as household words. His
boldness and courage knew no limits, and he met with a grand success
until Colonial slavery met its deathblow. In 1833 Mr. Garrison visited
England to enlist the sympathy of the English people for the American
slave, and one of the first persons he met was George Thompson, who
was just then, at the suggestion of Bingham and others, entering upon
the study of the law, but his sympathies were aroused, and he returned
to this country early in 1834. He was denounced from one end of the
country to the other, and he and his family were turned out of the hotel,
when he was given a home in the family of Arthur Tappan. In Boston
he was denounced by the press and the clergy, and the same Boston
mob that dragged Garrison through the streets with a halter around his
[ neck thirsted for his life. The details of his being mobbed at Salem and
! the plan which was laid to capture him and take him to Boston were
vividly described. He spoke a few times in the towns around Boston,
but under dangers and difficulties. One of these meetings, held at
Abington, the speaker described. His coming to this country was not
in vain, and when he returned to England he met with a warm welcome.
Incidents of his love of justice and his noble nature were given, and the
address throughout was marked by interesting personal incidents. In
1850, then a member of Parliament, he again visited Boston, and was
refused a hearing in Faneuil Hall, but the outrage on free speech was
too great to be borne, and Mr. Thompson was invited to Worcester,
where a grand meeting was held. He also spoke at Plymouth, Fall
River, and other places, and was mobbed at Springfield, Rochester,
N. Y., and other towns. He was in Boston at the time of the excitement
over William and Ellen Crafts, and the visit made to them at the home
of Lewis Hayden by George Thompson and William Lloyd Garrison in
secret on a blight Sabbath morning was described with thrilling interest,
and a warm tribute was paid to Mr. Hayden, who made his home the
fort of freedom.
In conclusion he spoke of the incidents of Mr. Thompson’s life after
his second return to England, and also gave accounts of the fidelity and
heroism of the coloured people during the rebellion. The attitude of the
English Government toward this country iu its hour of peril, and the
good influence of George Thompson, was dwelt upon, and a description
given of the welcome accorded him on his third visit to this country in
1864, when Governor Andrew presided at a grand reception given him
in the Music Hall. The address was throughout one of unusual interest,
and was most warmly applauded.
William Lloyd Garrison was then called upon and given a generous
welcome. It was nearly forty-eight years since he gave his first
address to the coloured people of Boston, and he was now speaking to
a new generation. The state of things at the South was now
deplorable in many respects. The coloured people were still deprived
of many of their rights, but thank God there is now no slavery. The
coloured people of the South will not be in full possession of their
rights for the next four years, possibly not in ten, but they would
ultimately receive them. They were gaining in intelligence and
strength, and the South must beware of the future. He spoke of the
warm and devoted friendship of Mr. Thompson, and his labours in the
cause of freedom and humanity. There never was a more modest
man, but he had great power to move the hearts of men. He was a
grand character, but how misunderstood. He has gone to his reward,
and his memory should be held precious to the latest generation. Mr.
Garrison read an interesting reminiscence of Mr. Thompson which
had been sent by Lydia Maria Child, describing an incident of a
meeting held at Julian Hall in 1835, when the Southerners attempted
to get possession of him and send him South in a South Carolina vessel
waiting at the wharf. According to a preconcerted plan twenty-five
or thirty ladies gathered around him and conveyed him behind a green
curtain, when he passed into a warehouse and was safely carried away
by his anti-slavery friends. Mr. Garrison also read the placard
which called the mob around the Liberator office, offering a reward
of 100 dols. for the first person who should lay violent hands on
Thompson, that he might be £‘ brought to the tar kettle by twelve
o’clock.” In conclusion, he said if the coloured people were shot
down now they were shot down not as slaves, but as American
citizens, and American citizens were not to be shot down with
impunity. They would have, he trusted, a president by-and-by with
a backbone. President Hayes seems to have been deluded by the idea
that conceding everything to the South, they would concede everything
to the coloured people. The word £t conciliation ” had become as
loathsome as the word “ compromise.” The following letter from Mr.
Charles L. Mitchell from the poet Whittier was also read by Mr.
Garrison:—
Oak Knoll, Danvers, 2nd mo., 2nd, 1879.
Dear Friend,—I am sorry that it is not in my power to attend the com¬
memoration meeting to-morrow at the church in North ■ Russell-street, but I
cannot let the occasion pass without expressing my profound respect for the
character of George Thompson, and my high estimate of his services to the
cause of human freedom. It was my privilege to give him the shelter of my
roof for two or three weeks, when his life was endangered by mob-violence,
then at its height, and when it was not safe to let our neighbours know that
he was our guest. I was with him at the time of his greatest peril, when we
were surrounded by a mob of hundreds of excited men, from whom we were
providentially rescued, not without encountering personal violence. I can
bear testimony to the courage, fidelity, and self-sacrifice which he manifested
in that terrible year, when press and pulpit, caucus and Legislature, were
everywhere hounding on the people against us. Of his gifts as a public
speaker and debater I scarcely need speak. No one who had the pleasure of
hearing it can ever forget the power of his oratory. In the long list of those
who laboured and suffered as abolitionists, I know of no one more efficient, no
one more deserving of grateful remembrance. The friend of Wilberforce and
Clarkson, O’Connell and Brougham, all of whom bore testimony to his worth
as a man and his eloquence as an orator, he rests with them from his labours,
as must soon rest all who participated in the long struggle for the slave’s
freedom. Whoever else, in the lapse of years, may be forgotten, I trust the
children and the children’s children of the race for whom he laboured will
keep his memory green.—Thy friend, John G. Whittier.
Father Henson—the original from whom the character of Uncle Tom
was drawn by Mrs. Stowe—said that the first abolition lecture he ever
heard was by Gerrit Smith in 1833, and in 1834 he united with James
G. Burney in advocacy of the cause. In 1838 he came to Boston and
saw Mr. Garrison, Francis Jackson, Lawyer Sewell, and some other
friends. The year of full deliverance and jubilee was yet to come. He
wanted the rising generation to make their footsteps sure and strong.
In his characteristically happy manner he entertained the audience for
some time.
The Hon. James N. Buffum, of Lynn, gave some interesting
i (L
Feb, 28, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
101
reminiscences of his early experience in the anti-slavery cause, in
which he had been educated.
The Eev. Robert C. Waterston spoke of the testimonial to Mr.
Garrison, which was the fruit of a seed dropped by Mr. Thompson.
Mr. Lewis Hayden spoke briefly of the significance of the gathering,
thanked the old abolitionists for their labours in the name both of
the living and the unborn, and expressed the wish that their presence
and their labours could be graven upon the minds and souls of the
children.
It was well toward midnight when the meeting, after expressing
its thanks for the address, dissolved by singing “ John Brown’s Body.’’
SCIENCE AND SPIRITUALISM.
BY HENRY O. ATKINSON, AUTHOR OF “ LETTERS TO MISS MARTINEAU.”
There are two sides or more to most questions: you may
add a column of figures up or down; you may question
whether the egg was first or the hen ; and you may question
Mr. Darwin in vain as to how the sexes came to be
differentiated and correlated; but of the jargon about natural
selection, Pangenesis, and the survival of the fittest, I am
sick and tired. Mr. Darwin says that the female selects her
mate for his more decorated and handsome appearance; Mr.
Wallace says very much the reverse : whereas a ny simple
observer, free from theories, sees that with the lower animals
it has no relation to any superior beauty at all.
The sex question, and the question of origin, growth,
change, and reproduction cannot be ignored by Spiritualists,
as has been the case; for surely if there be one fact more of
a spiritual character than another, it is the germ question
termed <£ Pangenesis ”—the question of how the germ cell
becomes possessed of the tendency and ability to develop
into a living complex being, similar to the one from which it
is derived. The transmitted character, ability, and tendency
to development into a form of such a correlated, and inter¬
related, and inter-dependent organism, as that of a man, or
horse, or butterfly, is most unaccountable, hence the notion
of abstract metaphysical “ Forms ” on which the matter is
cast or moulded, the fancy of Plato denounced by Bacon. I
used to think that the matter in question, on leavening
principles, as it were, would come under some form of the
law of animal magnetism, but do not now see how that
would account for a small piece of a bignonia leaf developing
into a complete plant. Here we may indeed pause and
wonder—wonder defined as £< knowledge broken off.” We
must remember that the mystery does not only concern the
living form, for even in respect to the formation of crystals
Professor Tyndall says : “ There is something, in my opinion,
which the mind of man has never yet seized ; which, so
far as research has penetrated, is found indissolubly joined
with matter.” But a something joined rather leads back
to Plato’s “Forms,” yet it shows what an eternal puzzle it
is, and how the human mind ever struggles to solve it.
Now, if matter be formed of spirit, its nature is still that of
spirit; and if spirit, on the other hand, is an essence from
matter, as Milton gives it, then spirit is of the nature of
matter, so that work the figures up or down it comes to the
same thing. We must beware of taking words for things,
or even thoughts for things, for when we talk of mind in
nature, or of structural principles, or formative laws, or of
“ Forms,” we do but use words for an unknown element
better expressed as X, because that does not mislead with
the pretence of a faint appearance where all is darkness.
Even the terms law and principle are without meaning in
such a case, because a law is the rule, and not what rules.
The word “ spirit ” has never yet been defined. It is a great
point to know what we do not yet know, but what, is to be
known, and I believe that we must look for a light on the
principles of development through the facts of Spiritualism
chiefly. The real cause we can never know, but the laws of
transfer and the source and principles of the effects we may
know, as we knovtf the law of attraction, and by it account
for the tides. To begin, we must record the facts of that
vital mesmeric force involved in the investing of the new
matter with the special life-character of the plant or animal,
as the case may be, and to which the germ, partaking in a
latent way of the whole nature or tendency so to develop to
a similar form, must, I think, bear some relation, except
or the difficulty of the bit of bignonia leaf referred to.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, France.
A SEANCE IN A HAUNTED HOUSE IN NA.TAL.
Aylward, in his book The Transvaal of To-day, relates
the following story of a “ haunted house ” in Natal:—“ On
the arrival of the party of investigators and exorcists an
armed watch \^as placed around the house outside.. . . The
guard being posted, seven men entered the house and care¬
fully fastened all the doors and windows. . . . The candles
were lighted and in deep silence the watch was commenced. Ten
minutes after the arrival of the guests the seance commenced
by the fall of half-a-dozen pomegranates on the table.
This was succeeded by a shower of gravel, the small stones
of which I had the curiosity to inspect. No pebbles of a
similar nature were to be found within ten miles of the
place. One of the guards got up to examine the pome¬
granates. He had no sooner left his chair than it was flung
with great violence after him ; then lumps of ironstone, the
smallest of which weighed ten pounds, began dropping from
unexpected places, and a mass Of clay appeared to tumble
through the roof, breaking and scattering about the floor as
if it had come from a considerable height. The remarkable
feature about the whole affair was that not one missile struck
or injured any of the large party now assembled in the small
room. Their excitement was increased by hearing a violent
banging at one of the shuttered openings, but which, as we
afterwards learned, attracted no attention from the outside
guard. McCormyck, who is still a living witness of the
facts of this entertainment, being, after his own fashion, a
pious man, determined to show the power of his faith and the
strength of his exorcisms at his command. He stood up
with uncovered head and boldly addressed the ghost in Irish,
ordering it in the most solemn manner, and by the most
sacred influence known to Christians, to retire to where the
wicked ought to cease from troubling, and the weary are pre¬
sumed—by all but Spiritualists—to take their rest. Whether
led on by his subject, he went too far or not I cannot 'say ;
he was stopped in the midst of a torrent of eloquence by
what he afterwards described as a i kick from a three-year-
old in fact, a £ young paving stone ’ brought him to his
senses and his seat at the same time. This violent counter¬
attack was too much for the visitors ; already in a state of
high alarm, they . . flung open the doors and dashed out into
the moonlight, followed by showers of stones, mealie cobs,
potatoes, pomegranates, oranges, and all the handy weapons
of South African spiritual warfare that the deceased had
accumulated—where ?”
Aylward relates another South African “ ghost story” as
follows:—“A gentleman, who is most intimate with me,
was riding one day on a road skirted on the left by high
embankments, while the right sloped away into grassy
meadows, when a thunderstorm coming up from behind,
caused him to look back, that he might calculate whether he
could reach the town, two miles in front of him, without
being caught in the rain. The horse, as horses will, looked
around and backward at the same time. In a moment the
brute was madly plunging, striving to bolt up the high bank,
and endeavouring with evident terror, to get away from some
fearful thing. ... It was 4 p.m.. on an ordinary summer
afternoon. . . . Strongly interested by the fear so palpably
exhibited by his horse, . . . the rider again turned his eyes
towards the rapidl}” approaching storm. . . . He was not a
superstitious man, he was not drunk, or suffering from low
spirits, or ‘ want of spirits,’ and yet he saw in the broad day¬
light, coming floating towards him, with outstretched arms
in front of the moving mass of rain, but several feet raised
from the earth, a young, fair, ethereal, golden-haired female,
whose robes of glittering white trailed just over the highest
points of the grass. She spoke not, but came steadily down
upon him in advance of the storm. His horse now kicked and
plunged more madly than ever, and at length, wild with
terror, snapped the strong bridle reins into pieces, and tore
away in headlong flight straight down the roadway to the
distant village. . . . Twice during the headlong gallop, the
rider turned his head to watch the swiftly following rain,
which was still preceded by the fair girl and her outstretched
arms.
The new offices of The Spiritualist will be in the neighbourhood of
Piccadilly or Pall-mall.
102
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 28, 1879.
SEANCES WITH A MODIFIED CABINET.—SLATE-WRITING
MANIFESTATIONS.
BY CHARLES BLACKBURN.
Miss Cook is here for a little change from London, and I,
with others, have had several seances with her, so that I
might form a better judgment of the progress of the
development of the manifestations than from any weekly
reports to me by herself or Signor Rondi.
I find that the spirit can now, by practice, dispense with
the old form of cabinet. This is an immense advance in
proving the truth of materialisation ; but the medium is still
compelled to sit behind a curtain with her back to the light,
and that light must be very small; Miss Cook is placed in
an arm-chair, whilst lookers-on, who sit round, can dimly
see her. She then goes slowly into a high state of sensitive¬
ness, and a strong light would stop or prevent the conditions
necessary to enable the form to arise from her, therefore the
sudden admission of light at that time would act like an
electric shock on the medium, and drive the spirit form
instantly back from whence it sprang, besides seriously
hurting Miss Cook. But by arrangement of the sitters we can
always prove that two separate forms are there together and
solid at the same time, which is the point to substantiate.
After this prelude I will report a stance.
On Friday, the 21st, I invited Mr. A. B., of Rochdale;
Mr. B., of Eccles ; Mr. J. A., of Pendleton ; and Mr. G. of
'Withington, who, with my daughter, myself, and medium,
formed the party, which met at seven o’clock in my library.
We placed ourselves in total darkness first, round an oval
table, for physical disturbances, but very little power was
present. The medium, in tight black velvet dress, sat
between Mr. A. B. and Mr. J. A., and they held her hands,
but the tambourine, and bell, and iron ring, and table soon
began to knock about, and also the medium's chair, which
amused the two (who all the time held both the medium’s
hands), for some force would not let them replace her chair,
so we struck a light and began a materialisation seance. We
placed the medium in an arm-chair, drew a green baize
curtain at her back, about a yard, which shielded her
shoulders and head from a small gaslight, and she wrapped
her shoulders and neck up in a woollen shawl; she also had
on her tight boots with very many buttons. Our seats were
in a half circle in a corner of the room, close around her.
Mr. A. B. and Mr. J. A. sat where they could see the spirit
forming, and Mr. B., of Eccles, sat behind the medium’s back.
Shortly Mr. A. B. said: “ I see something white forming
about the medium’s feet.” This in time grew bigger
until of full size, and stood near Mr. A. B., who called out
to Mr. B., of Eccles, “ I should like you to put your hand
over the chair back, and feel for the medium’s head.” He
did so, and replied, “ Yes, she is herein deep trance.” The
form let us feel her muslin drapery, and asked Mr. A. B. to
feel her ears ; he did so, and found no earrings, or holes for
them. She then asked him to feel her medium’s ears; he
did so, and found on her ears, while she was in trance, two
pairs of coral earrings. He asked permission to feel the
spirit’s feet, which were bare, and he did so; but the medium
had boots and stockings on. My daughter was asked by the
spirit to go inside and take hold of both hands of the
medium. She did so, whilst the form drew more curtain
round her medium. My daughter called out, “ I have now
hold of both hands of the medium, and I feel on my right,
next you, all the spirit drapery.” Just at that moment the
spirit opened the curtain a little, and showed herself. She
said she must then go. She bade us each “ Good night,” and
we gradually turned on more light, finding the medium, as
at first, without any white drapery whatever. Thus ended
that seance.
On Sunday, 23rd February, myself and Miss Blackburn
tried another phase of mediumship with Miss Cook, viz.,
“ slate writing,” and were successful, though we also tried at
the seance on the 21st, but nothing came.
W e three sat at the same oval table as before with the gas
half down, and Miss Cook between us. I took the slate,
and with a long pencil I wrote (unknown to the ladies), a
few questions to the spirit, and received answers to each as
follows. The medium had her left elbow on the table, with
her head on her hand, whilst her right hand received the
slate from me with a crumb of pencil on it* The slate was
|| placed with questions upwards, facing the under part of the,
| table top, Miss Cook’s four fingers supporting the slate, and
| her thumb in view on the top of table :—
First Q.—Why did you not come and write for us at last seance $
j A.—Because I was too tired, Lilley.
| Second Q.—Will you write for us now on top of table ?
| A.—I will shortly, with your hand on slate.
j Third Q.—Why did you not go to the ladies’ bedroom last night ?
| A.—I did, hut hath were asleep.
| Fourth Q.—Can’t you get another spirit to write in French or
i English, and let us see what difference in writing ?
i A.—I will in a little while.
j Fifth Q.—Write us a long message about anything ?
| A.—I will write Miss B., but do go on talking.
The slate was here given to medium again with a crumb of
j pencil on it, and we heard the writing of the following :—
| I shall want to ask you a question, Miss B., to-night, hutd on't tell Katie.
I Sixth Q.—Now, give one proof on the top of the table, with slate,
j before we go to supper, and then another dark seance.
The slate was then cleaned, a crumb of pencil placed on
I top of table and covered by slate; the medium and myself
I placed our hands on it, and instantly we heard the following
! written :—
j A.—This is sufficient proof for all.
After supper we had a dark seance, and my daughter and
| self held both hands of the medium. The table and play-
| things became literally alive and dangerous; the medium
I shot upwards, her nose hitting the gaselier, and she called
j loudly to us not to cease holding her, and in that standing-up
j position the iron ring was put on my wrist. She was then
j gently let down. Next, the chairs were piled on the table,
| and I was obliged to a light up ” and end it.
I Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester, February 24, 1879.
THE LATE MR. GEORGE THOMPSON’S RECOGNITION OF
SPIRITUALISM.
“ Concerning the remarkable stance held at Liverpool
described by Mrs. Nos worthy, we (Psychological Review) are
favoured by Dr. Hitchman with a copy of the following
letter, addressed to him by Mr. Thompson after his return to
his home in Leeds :—
“130, Francis-street, Leeds, 4th Octobei*, 1875.
“ 1 My dear Doctor,—. . . I am constrained to assure you
that I shall ever esteem it a great pleasure and privilege to
have been brought so intimately acquainted with you during
my recent week’s residence under my daughter’s roof in
Liverpool; and by so doing to have been able in some degree
to become aware of your exceptionally high talent and deep
learning, and to enjoy opportunities of appreciating, in a
practical manner, the noble purposes to which you have
devoted such splendid gifts, in the acquisition of new truth,
even to modern Spiritualism. I have read your lecture on
that and kindred subjects in science and philosophy—de¬
livered in the Cutlers’ Hall, Sheffield, as well as your papers
recited in the Report of the British Scientific Association on
“ Anatomy of Intellect ”—with pleasure and profit.* What
we saw in Boundary-lane I hope you will give an account of
in scientific and literary detail, since such rare and stupendous
psychological experiences serve as a sort of further mathe¬
matical demonstration, by means of visible, tangible, audible
facts of the truth in nature of your well-devised a priori
hypothesis of a future life. To witness the materialisation,
step by step, as it were, of previously unseen intelligent
forces, or supermundane existences, from the merest outline,
or nebulous mist, to handsome, majestic, living personifica¬
tions of soul and spirit, nay, cultured refined minds, clad in
temporary framework of the most ornate Oriental grandeur
and brilliancy, to be privileged to witness all this is, I repeat,
something to be so thankful to God for, as to render the
language of man inadequate to depict.
“ ‘ Altogether, Mr. B ’s mediumship has evinced, to
my entire satisfaction, in every phase of psychological
phenomena, such wonders of Spiritualism as have never been
equalled or approached in America throughout a protracted
inquiry, and in presence of distinguished persons and ex¬
cellent mediums of either sex. I shall ponder deeply and
reverently on the sublime nature and solemn meaning of
Spiritualism in future, with a view more completely to
understand the true mission of this new revelation of
heaven to earth, or angels to mortals, and what may be its
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 28, 1879.
important results. I am unutterably thankful for the
blessings and favours already vouchsafed to me, in this
respect, at Liverpool, and will gladly return at any time to
witness such a seance, and under such conditions. ... .—I
remain, my dear Doctor, yours most fraternally,
r‘if Geokge Thompson.
“ ‘ William Hitchman, Esq., M.D., &c., Liverpool.’ ”
THE FUNERAL OF DR. HALLOCK.
{From “Mind and Matter” Philadelphia, January 25th.)
Dr. Robert T. Hallock, President of the First Society of Spirit¬
ualists of New York, passed to the spirit world on Friday evening,
January 17. He was seventy-three years old. His father and his
grandfather were Quaker farmers at Milton on the Hudson, and both
were noted as preachers. After aiding his father for a few seasons in
farm work, he studied medicine, and practised for several years in
Utica as a mesmerist and homceopathist. He was a regular attendant
at anti-slavery meetings, but rarely as a speaker, and on coming to
New York in 1852 he became interested in Spiritualism. In con¬
nection with Robert Dale Owen, Judge Edmonds, Dr. Gray, and
Messrs. Partridge, Fishbough, and Brittan, be investigated its pheno¬
mena, and from a materialist he became a firm believer in a spiritual
life. He was the founder of the Spiritual Conference in New York
city. He was also a member of the Polytechnic and Geographical
Societies of the Liberal and Farmers’ Clubs. At each of these he was
a regular attendant.
After his marriage, eighteen years ago, to the mother of Ella and
Linda Dietz, well known as actresses, he became a strong advocate of
women suffrage, and a frequent speaker. He listened, apparently in
good health, at the Liberal Club, on Friday last, to a metaphysical
lecture by Stephen Pearl Andrews, entitled “The Composition of
Lemonade,” and subsequently, without participating in the debate,
went into an ante-room to sit by the stove. There he was attacked by
heart disease, and he fell to the floor. He died an hour after being
sent home. He was conscious, and expecting to recover to the last. He
leaves four children.
On Sunday the Spiritual Conference, in the Harvard Rooms,
passed resolutions that the chair adjoining the platform, in which the
doctor regularly sat, should be draped with black, and remain indefi¬
nitely vacant.
Mrs. Frances Y. Hallock, his widow, her son, Frank Dietz, and her
daughter, Ella Dietz, are at present in London, England. The
doctor’s only son, Mr. Waverly Hallock, and his wife, of Brooklyn,
and Miss Linda Dietz, a well-known actress of the Union-square
Theatre, and the deceased’s sister, Mrs. Allen, were among the near
relatives present.
The funeral services were held at his late residence, 140, East
Fifteenth-street, at half-past ten o’clock on Tuesday morning, January
21st. Relatives and a large number of friends gathered to pay the last
solemn rites.
Mr. John Tyerman, of Australia, who is temporarily stopping in
the city, said he had been called upon to say a word before Mrs.
Brigham delivered the address. “ If a man die shall he live again ? ”
He spoke of the deceased as being a true disciple in the faith, and
though he was stricken down suddenly and without warning, he
believed that he was ready to go. Death was a part of the constitution
of things as well as life. He rejoiced that the friend and brother
before him was a true believer. To the surviving friends he expressed
his tenderest sympathies, and hoped that ere long the ties temporarily
separated would be united in a region "Where they would be broken
asunder no more for ever. He hoped that the survivors would so live
from day to day as to have nothing to fear, and would be enabled to
say at last that they had left the world something better for having
lived in it; that they had scattered a few seeds of truth by the wayside,
and passing on and having done this, would reap their reward where
tears and death are for ever unknown.
Mrs. Nellie J. Brigham then offered prayer, after which she
delivered the funeral discourse. She based her remarks upon the
words, “ Behold, I send to you the comforter, even the spirit of
truth.”
An opportunity was afforded to take a last look at the remains.
The pall-bearers were Professor S. B. Brittan, Messrs. Charles
Partridge, William Fishbough, and C. O. Poole. The corpse was
then taken to Milton, on the Hudson, the doctor’s birthplace, for
interment.
Among those who were present at the funeral we noticed Andrew
Jackson Davis, Dr. J. V. Mansfield, Charles H. Foster, Henry J.
Newton, Mrs. John L. O’Sullivan, Mr. Charles R. Miller (President of
the Brooklyn Society of Spiritualists), Mrs. S. B. Nichols, Mr. Kink,
Mr. and Mrs. Bisco, Mrs. Webb, Mr. Loomis, Mr. Phillips, Mr.
Cohn, Mr. Alfred Weldon, Mrs. Lillie Deveraux Blake, Mrs. Charlotte
Fowler Wells (widow of the late S. R. Wells), Mrs. Helen M. Cook
(Corresponding Secretary of the Woman’s Suffrage Society), Mrs.
Henry J. Newton (Secretary of the Sorosis), Mrs. Dr. C. L. Rowe,
Mrs. H. M. Slocum, Mrs. Jenny Croly (Jenny June), Mrs. Cranz,
Mrs. Jacobs, Mrs. Hull, Mr. Coleman, and others.
The Rev. John Tyerman will lecture at Doughty Hall next Sunday
evening. He leaves London for Australia in the steam-ship Cuzco, on
the 24th of next month.
The paper to be read before the National Association of Spiritualists
by Dr. Wyld next Monday is entitled “ Christian Occultism,” or Esoteric
Christianity.
108
DR. SLADE AND “ SPIRIT IDENTITY.”
BY C. C. MASSEY.
I have read with much interest the Australian account of
i Dr. Slade, published in your last number. No one will
| accuse me of being other than a friend of Dr. Slade; but I
! must say that he will assuredly come to grief, and bring the
| occult phenomena of which he is so great a medium into
| discredit, if he continues to assert that he obtains messages
| from deceased friends and relatives of those who choose to
| consult him.” In some cases this may be so; thotigh I
[ have heard of none that would bear examination. But in
| most of Slade’s “ messages ” this is almost, and in some
| quite, demonstrably not so. One of my own earliest
experiments with him in England anticipated Professor
Lancaster’s—that of writing a fictitious name—and I obtained
a truly affectionate and edifying reply under conditions which
made any physical agency of Slade absolutely impossible.
But as long as public mediums keep up the “ spirit identity ”
delusion—delusion, I mean, as regards the general run of
their manifestations—and as long as the belief of
Spiritualists backs up this delusion, so long will investiga¬
tion be weighted by a prejudice from which it ought long ago
to have been freed by the experience of intelligent observers.
Slade himself must surely know by this time that most of
his messages are quite untrustworthy as regards their pre¬
tended origin, and I can only hope that he is misreported
| in his alleged assertion to the contrary. Very probably this
is so, as hardly anything that a medium says or does is
fairly reported in the newspapers. But if my words can
reach him at this distance, let me entreat him, as a
friend and well-wisher, not to do his manifestations the
injustice of weighting them with a test that they most certainly
cannot bear.
Temple, February 21, 1879.
MR. AND MRS. YARLEY’S BALL.
| Last Tuesday night Mr. and Mrs. C. F. Varley gave a ball to their
j friends, at St, James’s Hall, London. Among those present were
j several known to the readers of these pages, namely—Mr., Mrs., and
| Miss Crookes, Mr. H. D. Jencken, Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken, Mr. Algernon
Joy, Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, and Mr. Harrison.
At a supper party in the course of the evening, Mr. Spagnoletti pro¬
posed the health of Mr. and Mrs. Yarley, and was warmly supported
by all present, Mr. Varley then said that for a long time he had been
[ unable to appear in public, because of bad health brought on by too
much head-work, but he hoped henceforth to go on with pleasure to
j himself, happiness to his friends, and utility to mankind. He was
i pleased to see that assemblage of his dear friends around himself and
I Mrs. Yarley that evening, and hoped to welcome them at his house, in
the pure air of the country.
I Mr. Frederick Varley proposed “ The Ladies,” and Mr. Harrison, in
I responding on their behalf, said that, like many other newspaper men,
| he could criticise other people’s speeches, but broke down himself on
j the two or three occasions he had tried to make extemporaneous
| speeches at festive gatherings. It was a great pleasure to him to meet
j Mr. and Mrs. Varley again; Mr. Varley had always been a close friend,
and years ago had not only instructed him much in science, but in
I matters of religion had placed him in a position to learn much about
j the life hereafter.
j Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald proposed “ The Health of the Visitors.”
| He considered Mr. Crookes to be the greatest scientific man of modern
| times. Mr. Varley’s characteristics were great originality and power of
i application; he was glad Mr. Varley was about to return to the work
I of his profession, but supposing that he retired from it that evening, he
II had made a great mark in the scientific world, and his name would be
(! connected for all time with the science of electricity. (Applause.) He
11 had not always agreed with Mr. Varley on scientific points, but found
'} him to be a foeman worthy of his steel.
I Mr. Varley said that Mr. Fitz-Gerald had made allusion to days
| when the possibility of laying Atlantic cables was a great question. In
i solving the question he (Mr. Varley) had for his colleague one of the
i most able scientific men of the day, Sir William Thomson, and Michael
| Faraday, his cousin, worked in alliance with him. Between them
| they discovered and laid down all the laws connected with the working
I of long deep-sea cables. He thought that at the latter end of the
i nineteenth century the name best known in connection with English
] science would be that of Mr. William Crookes. (Applause.) He had
i performed valuable experiments in such a patient way, and had never
| committed himself to any theory he could not demonstrate; in short,
| he had built up a great scientific reputation. After a few remarks
! about Professor Ayrton, Mr. Jencken, Q.C., Mr. Harrison, Mr.
| Chandler Roberts, of the Royal Mint, Mr. Spagnoletti, Mr. Loeffler,
i and others, Mr. Varley sat down amid loud applause,
i The guests, who had been so hospitably welcomed, then adjourned
' i to the hall, and dancing w'\s kept up till a late, or rather early, hour.
104
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Fib. 28, 1879.
THE MEMORIAL TO THE UNITED STATES’ GOVERNMENT
ABOUT SPIRITUALISM.
In 1854 a memorial, drawn up at request by the Rev. S.
B. Britain, about Spiritualism, and signed by 15,000
persons, was presented to the Congress of the United States,
praying for a commission of investigation into Spiritualism,
and we think it desirable to put this historical document on
record in these pages. At the request of Governor Tall-
madge, of Wisconsin, General Sheilds presented the memo¬
rial, which is here appended:—
| A MEMORIAL
“ To the Honourable the Members of the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States, in Congress assembled:
c£ Your memorialists, citizens of the Republic of the
United States of America, most respectfully beg leave to
represent before your honourable body that certain physical
and mental phenomena, of questionable origin and mysterious
import, have of late occurred in this country, and in almost all
parts of Europe, and the same are now so prevalent, especially
in the northern, middle, and western sections of the Union,
as to engross a large share of the [public attention. The
peculiar nature of the subject to which the memorialists desire
to solicit the attention of your honourable body, may be
inferred from the partial analysis of its phenomenal aspects,
which are imperfectly comprehended in the following brief
generalisation:—
“First.—An occult force exhibited in sliding, raising,
arresting, holding, suspending, and otherwise disturbing
numerous ponderable bodies, apparently in direct opposition
to the acknowledged laws of matter, and altogether
transcending the accredited powers of the human mind, is
manifested to thousands of intelligent and discriminating
persons, while the human senses have hitherto failed to
detect to the satisfaction of the public either the primary or
proximate causes of these phenomena.
“ Second.—Lights of various forms and colours, andhf dif¬
ferent degrees of intensity, appear in dark rooms where no
substances exist which are liable to develop chemical action or
phosphorescent illumination, and in the absence of all the
means and instruments whereby electricity is generated or
combustion produced.
“Third.—Another general class of the phenomena which
we desire to bring to the notice of your august body is pre¬
sented in the variety of sounds which are now extremely
frequent in their occurrence, widely diversified in their
character, and more or less significant in their import.
These consist, in part, of certain mysterions rappings which
appear to indicate the presence of an invisible intelli¬
gence ; sounds such as are occasioned by the prosecution of
several mechanical and other occupations are often heard ;
there are others which resemble the hoarse voices of the winds
and waves, with which, occasionally, harsh, creaking sounds
are mingled, similar to those produced by the masts and rig--
ging of a ship while it is labouring in a rough sea.
“ At times powerful concussions occur, not unlike distant
thunder or the discharge of artillery, accompanied by an
oscillatory movement of surrounding objects, and in some
instances by a vibratory or tremulous motion of the floor of
the apartment; or, it may be, of the whole house wherein the
phenomena occur.
|| On other occasions harmonic sounds are heard as of
human voices, but more frequently resembling the tones of
various musical instruments, among which those of the fife,
drum, trumpet, guitar, harp, and piano have been myste¬
riously and successfully represented, both with and without
the instruments; and in either case, without any apparent
human or other visible agency.
“These phenomena appear to depend, so far as regards
the process of their production, on the acknowledged
principles of acoustics.
“There is obviously a distinction of the sensational
medium of the auditory nerves, occasioned by an undulating
movement of the air, though by what means these atmos¬
pheric undulations' are produced does not appear to the
satisfaction of acute observers.
“ Fourth.—All the functions of the human body and mind
are olten and strangely influenced in what may appear to
be certain abnormal states of the system, and by causes
which are neither adequately defined nor understood. The
invisible power frequently interrupts what we are accustomed
to denominate the normal operation of the faculties, sus¬
pending sensation and the capacity for voluntary motion,
checking the circulation of the animal fluids, and reducing
the temperature of the limbs and portions of the body to a
death-like coldness and rigidity. Indeed, in some instances,
respiration is entirely suspended for a season—it may be for
hours or days together—after which the faculties of the mind
and functions of the body are fully restored.
“ It is, moreover, confidently asserted that these pheno¬
mena have been succeeded, in numerous cases, by permanent
mental and physical derangement, and it is positively
affirmed and believed that many persons who were suffering
from organic defects, or from protracted and apparently
incurable diseases, have been suddenly relieved or entirely
renovated by the same mysterious agency.
“ It may not be improper to observe, in this connection,
that two general hypotheses obtain with respect to the origin
of these remarkable phenomena.
“ The one ascribes them to the power and intelligence of
departed spirits, operating on and through the subtle and
imponderable elements which pervade and permeate all
material forms; and this, it should be observed, accords
with the ostensible claims and pretensions of the manifes¬
tations themselves.
“ Among those who accept this hypothesis will be found a
large number of our fellow-citizens, who are alike distin¬
guished for their moral worth, intellectual powers and
attainments, as well as for their eminent social position and
political influence.'
“ Others, not less distinguished in all the relations of life,
reject this conclusion, and entertain the opinion that the
acknowledged principles of physics and metaphysics will
enable scientific inquirers to account for all the facts in a
rational and satisfactory manner. While your memorialists
cannot agree on this question, but have honestly arrived at
widely different conclusions respecting the probable causes
of the phenomena herein described, they beg leave, most
respectfully, to assure your honourable body they neverthe¬
less most cordially, concur in the opinion that the alleged
phenomena do really occur, and that their mysterious origin,
peculiar nature, and important bearing on the interests of
mankind demand for them a patient, thorough, and scientific
investigation.
“ It cannot reasonably be denied that the various pheno¬
mena to which the memorial refers are likely to produce im¬
portant and lasting results, permanently affecting the physical
condition, mental development, and moral character of a
large number of the American people.
“ It is obvious that these occult powers do influence the
essential principles of health and life, of thought and action,
and hence they may be destined to modify the conditions of
our being, the faith and philosophy of the age, and the
government of the world.
“ Moreover, deeming it to be intrinsically proper, and at
the same time strictly compatible with the cardinal objects
and essential spirit of our institutions, to address the repre¬
sentatives of the people, concerning any and every subject
which may be fairly presumed to involve the discovery of new
principles, which must or may issue in momentous conse-
sequences to mankind, we, your fellow-citizens, whose
names are appended to this memorial, earnestly desire to be
heard on this occasion.
“ In pursuance, therefore, of the objects contemplated by
the present memorialists, and in view of the facts and reasons
herein contained or referred to, your fellow-citizens most
respectfully petition your honourable body for the appoint¬
ment of a scientific commission to which the subject shall be
referred, and for such an appropriation as shall enable the
commissioners to prosecute their inquiries to a successful
termination. Believing that the progress of science and the
true interests of mankind will be greatly promoted by the
proposed investigation, the undersigned venture to indulge
the hope that their requests will be approved and sanctioned
by the wisdom of your honourable body.
“ And to this end the petitioners will ever pray.”
The National Intelligencer of Washington, April, 1854,
Feb. 28, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
105
gives the following report of how the memorial was presented j
and received:—
“ I beg leave to present to the Senate a petition with some fifteen
thousand names appended to it upon a very singular and novel subject.
“ The petitioners represent that certain physical and mental phe¬
nomena of mysterious import have become so prevalent in tfiis country
and Europe as to engross a large share of public attention.”
[General Shields then proceeded to give a summary of the principal
features of the memorial, the reiteration of which would be unnecessary
in this place. At the conclusion of that portion of his address, he pro¬
ceeded as follows :—]
“ I have now given a faithful synopsis of this petition, which, how¬
ever unprecedented in itself, has been prepared with singular ability,
presenting the subject with great delicacy and moderation.
" I make it a rule to present any petition to the Senate which is
respectful in its terms; but having discharged this duty I may be per¬
mitted to say that the prevalence of this delusion at this age of the
world among any considerable portion of our citizens must originate,
in my opinion, in a defective system of education, or in a partial
derangement of the mental faculties, produced by a diseased condition
of the physical organisation. I cannot, therefore, believe that it exists
to the extent indicated in this petition.
“Different ages of the world have had their peculiar delusions.
Alchemy occupied the attention of eminent men for several centuries,
but there was something sublime in alchemy. The philosopher’s stone
or the transmutation of metals into gold; the elixir vitce which would
preserve youth and beauty, and prevent old age, decay, and de ath, were
blessings which poor humanity ardently desired, and which alchemy
sought to discover by perseverance and piety. Roger Bacon, one of the
greatest alchemists and greatest men of the thirteenth century, while
searching for the philosopher’s stone, discovered the telescope, burning-
glasses, and gunpowder.
“ The prosecution of that delusion, therefore, led to a number of
useful discoveries. In the sixteenth century flourished Cornelius
Agrippa, alchemist, astrologer, and magician, one of the greatest pro¬
fessors of the hermetic philosophy that ever lived. He had all the
spirits of the air and demons of the earth under his command.
“ Paulus Jovius says * that the devil, in the shape of a large black dog,
attended Agrippa wherever he went.’ Thomas Nash says, at the request
of Lord Surrey, Agrippa called up from the grave several of the great
philosophers of antiquity, amongst others Tully, who he caused to re¬
deliver his celebrated oration for Roscius. To please the Emperor
Charles the Fourth, he summoned King David and King Solomon from
the tomb, and the Emperor conversed with them long upon the science
of government.
“ This was a glorious exhibition of spiritual power compared with the
significant manifestations of the present day. I will pass over the cele¬
brated Paracelsus for the purpose of making allusion to an Englishman,
with whose veracious history every one ought to make himself
acquainted.
“In the sixteenth century, Dr. Dee made such progress in the talis-
manic art that he acquired ample power to hold familiar conversation
with the spirits and angels, and to learn from them all the secrets of
the universe. On one occasion the angel Uriel gave him a black crystal
of a convex form, which he had only to gaze on intently, and, by a
strong effort of will, he could summon any spirit he wished to reveal t6
him the secrets of futurity.
“ Dee, in his veracious diary, says ‘ that one day while he was
sitting with Albertus Laskin, a Polish nobleman, there seemed to come
out of the oratory a spiritual creature like a pretty girl of seven or nine
years old, with her hair rolled up before and hanging down behind,
with a gown of changeable red and green, and a train. She seemed to
play in and out of the books and up and down, and as she went, the
books displaced themselves to make way for her."
“ This; I call spiritual manifestations of the most fascinating kind
Even the books felt the influence of this fascinating creature.
“ Edward Kelly, an Irish man, who was present and witnessed this
beautiful apparition, verifies the doctor’s statements : therefore it
would be unreasonable to doubt a story of which the witness was an
Irishman. (Laughter.) Doctor Dee was the distinguished favourite of
kings and queens—a proof that spiritual science was held in high repute
in the days of good Queen Elizabeth.
“ But of all the professors of occult science the Rosicrucians were
the most exalted and refined. With them the philosopher’s stone
implied the possession of health and happiness, command over the ser¬
vice of superior beings, control of the elements, and the most intimate
knowledge of all the secrets of the universe. These were objects worth
striving ^or. The Rosicrucians were disgusted with the gross sensual
spirits wno had communed with man previous to their day, so they
decreed their annihilation and substituted in their stead a race of mild,
beautiful, and beneficent beings. The spirits of the olden times were
malignant and mischievous, but the new generation is mild and
benignant.
“ These spirits, as this petition asserts, indulge in the most innocent
amusements, as sliding, raising, tipping tables, producing pleasant
sounds and variegated lights; sometimes curing diseases ; and for the
existence of this simple and benignant race, our petitioners are justly
indebted to the brethren of the ‘ Rosy Cross.’
“ Amongst the modern professors of spiritualistic art, Cagliostro was
the most celebrated. In Paris his saloons were thronged with the rich
and noble, and his charming countess gained immense wealth by
granting attending sylphs to such ladies as were rich enough to pay for
their service.
“ The Biographic des Contempores, a work which our present
mediums ought to consult with care, says : ‘ There was hardly a fine lady
in Paris who would not sup with the shade of Lucretius in the apart¬
ments of Cagliostro. There was not a military officer who would not
discuss the art of war with Caesar, nor a counsellor who would not
argue points of law with Cicero.’
“ These were spiritual manifestations worth paying for, and our
degenerate mediums would have to hide their diminished heads in the
presence of Cagliostro.
“It would be a curious inquiry to'follow this occult science through
all its phases of mineral and animal magnetism, &c., until we reach the
present and slowest phase of all, spiritual manifestations; but I have
said enough to show the truth of Buckles’s beautiful aphorism, ‘ The
credulity of dupes is as inexhaustible as the invention of knaves.’
“ This speech was received with considerable attention, but was fre¬
quently interrupted by laughter.
“ Mr. Weller—What does the senator propose to do with the petition ?
“Mr. Betit—Let it be referred to three thousand clergymen?
(Laughter.)
P Mr. Weller—I suggest that it be referred to the committee on
foreign relations. (Laughter.)
“ Mr. Shields—I am willing to agree to the reference.
“Mr. Weller—It may be that we may have to enter into foreign
relations with these spirits. (Laughter.) If so, it is a proper subject
for the consideration of that committee. It may be necessary for
Americans to inquire if they lose their citizenship when they leave this
world. It may be expedient that all these grave questions should be
considered by the committee on foreign relations, of which I am an
humble member. I move its reference to that committee.
‘ | Mr. Mason—I really think it has been made manifest by the
honourable senator who has presented the petition that he has gone
further into the subject than any of us. I would, therefore, suggest
that it should either go to a select committee on his motion, or be
referred to the military committee, of which he is chairman. Certainly
the committee on foreign relations has nothing to do with it. Perhaps
it would be better to let the petition lie upon the table.
“ Mr. Shields—This is an important subject, and should not be
sneered away in this manner. (Loud laughter). I was willing to
agree to the motion of the senator from California, but I do not wish
the petition to go to the committee on foreign relations unless the
chairman of that committee is perfectly satisfied that he can do the
subject justice. (Laughter.) I had thought of proposing to refer the
matter to the committee on post-offices and post-roads, because there
may be a possibility of establishing a spiritual telegraph between the
material and the spiritual world. (Laughter.)
“ Mr. Mason—I move that the petition lie upon the table.—Agreed to.”
Mrs. Hardinge-Britten, in her History of American
Spiritualism, says :—
a It is almost unnecessary to state that the conduct of
General Shields in following up the memorial, which he had
undertaken to present by a speech which was calculated to
destroy every vestige of interest or importance contained in
that document, excited the just indignation of the memo¬
rialists, and called forth a scathing protest from Governor
Tallmadge. To this General Shields replied by a few lines
of defence on the strictly Congressional character of his pro¬
ceedings. Courtesy, honour, sincerity, a love of science or
respect for religion making no part in his conduct on the
occasion, of course found no place in his defence ; he had
acted within the rules and privileges of the Senate^ and so the
matter terminated.
f ‘ The memorial was, as ordered, ‘ laid upon the table; ’
but according to the law in such cases provided, it is still
preserved in the national archives, where it remains as an
evidence that in those days there were at least fifteen
thousand persons in the land who were better informed on
the philosophy of mental science and the high interests of
immortality than their elected representatives.”
CuTOsponuntce.
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
he returned; copies should he kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.']  
THE SCIENCE OF MIND.
Sir,—Mr. Cox says that it is the misfortune of psychology “ that the
greater portion of the names given to its phenomena are terms that
express some foregone conclusion. Scientific names should express
nothing but the fact.” Then why use the term psychology, when the
proper scientific naming is the physiology of the brain and nervous
system, as given by Dr. Gall, who would not accept the word phrenology
in use with his followers? Then, again, what has been termed thought
reading and thought sympathy is really brain sympathy, just as in the
instance given of the harp strings, which you would not call sound
sympathy. Now, my opinion is that nearly the whole of what is called
clairvoyance is merely brain sympathy ; and I think that the ordinary
law and fact of perception does not essentially differ from those extra¬
ordinary cases, but that exceptions show the rule.
In my Letters to Miss Martineau, p. 73, I say that the nerves from
the eye, for instance, do not pass direct to the perceptive faculties, but,
like the other sense-nerves, pass on to masses of grey matter at the
back of the brain, which, however, communicates with the cerebrum
and cerebellum. It occurs to me, therefore, that it is very possible
that the sense-impressions do not pass along the nerves into the pre-
106
Feb. 28, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
ceptive region of tlie brain as electricity passes along wires; but that
the nerves of sense maintain a receptive medium or condition of the
outer spread of the sense, which in its corresponding with or sympathy
with the brain-relation, passes through an intervening medium, and
influences it direct, without passing along the nerve, and that the com¬
bined actions and associations in thought occur in the same way. And,
indeed, one cannot see how thought could go on otherwise, that is,
without a spiritual pervading basis. I think that the muscular and
executive forces of the system are more nearly allied to electricity, and
the receptive and mental powers rather to magnetism. The slowness
of the action noted-of the nerve shows it not to be the act of percep¬
tion, which is instantaneous. It is a pretty simile, and a very ancient
one, that which likens a man to a musical instrument, and the mind to
music. But the further we proceed the clearer it becomes seen that
the science of mind is the physiology of the brain and nervous system,
and just as much a physical science as any other.
Henry Gr. Atkinson, F.G.S.
THE RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OP SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—A few weeks ago I had the honour of having a few thoughts on
the religious value of Spiritualism published in the The Spiritualist, and
the pleasure of reading the very interesting and valuable correspondence
that arose from Miss Kislingbury’s suggestive letter. It has been to me
somewhat of a surprise and a genuine pleasure to find how many minds
are also exercised in the same direction, and how man}’’ are also full of
the desire of rescuing Spiritualism from the unjust and unfair position
which it at present occupies. I say unjust and unfair, because we who
look upon it as a genuinely sacred subject, know that with all its short¬
comings it is the one known vital link between mortal man and immortal
man. The value of such a link who can estimate ? To those of us
who know, this link has never been long missing, though it has been
often hidden. This precious link, that of the mind of man uniting
itself deliberately with supersensuous subjects—by mind I mean both
soul and intellect; I probably express myself most unphilosophically—
we assume to have once more in our midst; and again our eyes are
open to see and know that what we once thought mystery and incom¬
prehensible marvel is not in reality concealed from us. All is ready
when we have the faculties to understand.
It appears to me that one of the loops in this priceless link is the
mystery of mediumship. I say mystery in the sense I have just
expressed, and mysterious only from our want of exact knowledge of the
positive cause or source of mediumship—not mysterious, because this
knowledge is purposely held from us. I hold, on the contrary, that all
knowledge is meant for us, and would be revealed were our intellects
sufficiently advanced to be in a receptive condition. This may be in the
dim future. In the present, it appears to me that, besides investigating
the phenomena of Spiritualism, profoundly and unceasingly interesting
as it is, this course alone will not help to rescue Spiritualism from
the present disadvantageous condition. I would not discourage seances,
quite the contrary; but I would, were it possible, that they could be
conducted as Mr. Fletcher’s guides in his very admirable lecture on
“ Mediumship ” pointed out. I had the great pleasure of being one of
his audience that evening, and it appeared to me that Mr. Fletcher
touched with a firm finger the keynote of what is wrong in what is
generally called Spiritualism; and if I am not intruding too much on
your valuable space, I confess I should like to say a few words that may
perhaps bear on the subject. The truth and beauty to me in Spiritualism
appears to lie in the union of ideas that appeal to our material senses,
and again, on the contrary, ideas that appeal to our spiritual senses.
There is a conviction of harmony in the whole thing that is most
grateful to our jaded faculties, I say jaded, for many of us must surely
feel worn with the jarring of our common sense so-called, and our finer
faculties when, before the light of Spiritualism dawned on our souls,
we were weary, and ready to say, “ There is, there can be no God.’’
Feeling all this as we do, yet we have most of us the pain of hearing
this grand doctrine of Spiritualism thoroughly misunderstood by those
who, of course, know nothing about it, and also by those who do,
because as everything presented to us in our finite nature has a weaker;
side, we persistently and perversely follow that side instead of per¬
petually striving higher.
Those who were among Mr. Fletcher’s audience will understand from
what he said on the subject of “ Mediumship.” Now, on that point
alone we are grievously in error, and using the Divine gift of medium-
ship, as is commonly done, must prevent us from either elucidating
urther light from above, or ourselves from rising from our present levels.
I cannot speak too highly of Mr. Fletcher’s noble desire of‘elevating
mediumship from the undignified position it now holds; and as he well
and truly said, as long as mediums are instruments useful to be played
upon in and out of season, and as long as these gifts are misused, so long
will Spiritualism be unable to develope as the power it should and
can be.
In returning home after Nthese Sunday evening lectures, I had the
unhappy necessity of passing by many, alas how many, crowded, noisy
public-houses, full of reeking, wretched humanity. The pain of con¬
trasting the atmosphere from which I had come and that inside these
so-called “palaces’’ was very keen. To listen to words spoken by a
man using his very highest and noblest faculties, and then to hear the
discordant hubbub from men exercising their very worst and lowest!
One can hardly believe they are the same creation. Yet they are ; and
if religion were the vital thing among us it is said to be by many, these
lower faculties of man could never be used as they are now. They
would die in time, rust away, and be re-born in a stronger form which
would not yield to unworthy temptations.
However, with regard to the religious aspect of Spiritualism, it seems
to me that until it is entirely taken in its two forms, that of its religious
and that of its intellectual value, it will never hold up its face to the
World with the bright, radiant, stedfast expression it should have. I
do not mean, however, to fall into the error of supposing or proposing
Spiritualism as a religion per se. It never can be a distinctive religion,
capable of disorganising the world for bad or good as Islamism, or
| Christianity, &c., and then foundering on the rocks of dogma; but,
] as I believe, that it illuminates all religions, and shows them all in
I essence one.
So it enlightens science, because those wise men who either have used
their own or others’ finer faculties in the pursuit of their studies, and
not banished what is usually called the spiritual element, must have
all felt the power of the future. The drawback at present to science is
] the want of the spiritual element, the onesidedness of it; the drawback
i of religion at present is the lack of reason and intellectuality in it. If
| it were possible to pursue the interesting scientific questions involved in
j the phenomena, honourably bearing always in mind the sacredness of
the subject; if it were possible to place mediumship in its various de-
1 velopments and forms in its right place, and to secure it from injurious
outward effects ; if it were possible to purge Spiritualism from its
| weaker sentimental or sensational side; then, I think, it might have a
I chance of holding up the rightful and radiant face now so downcast and
sad. I should much like to have seen again in print what I unfortunately
{ imperfectly remember of Mr. Fletcher’s addresses. I think them a step
] in the right direction : not meant for those who conscientiously find their
i higher faculties sufficiently sustained and enlightened elsewhere, but for
I those who conscientiously find they do not.
! I venture to throw out these few suggestions of mine, in the fervent
| hope that many who understand the difficulties of the question and the
I subject altogether far better than I do, would perhaps favour the readers
! of The Spiritualist with their views updrr this question. Can we raise
Spiritualism to or towards its right standing-place ? Until it is, to
use a simile of to-day, it will burn dimly as London gas, when it might
shine like the coming American electric light! Isabel de Steiger.
63, Bedford-gardens, Kensington.
Sir,—Dr. Wyld has unintentionally misquoted, when he credits my
pen with having written “ the mystery of the Logos is revealed from
within.” The written word was “secret,” “ mystery ” being a word
all should avoid using who do not want to be found members of that
woman riding on the scarlet beast, nor partakers in building up that
Babylon or city of confusion which has its foundation-stone in that one
word mystery over which she reigns.
Thanks be to God, there is no mystery in Him, though many of His
wonderful powers not yet having been developed in us, His offspring,
much remains to be revealed; and in the many passages in which our
translators credit Paul with having spoken of the mysteries of God, &c.,
| the word ought to be rendered revelations, or unveilings. It is to the
| simple that the Lord gives understanding.
I can assure your readers that the terrible process by which Dr. Wyld
would invite them to attain to the secret of the Logos is not the only
way by which beings on earth attain to the kingdom of Heaven ; and
that it is in no way necessary, or even possible, for a man to work out
his own salvation, in the sense in which Dr. Wyld applies that
word of Paul’s. The short and easy way is by faith. We are
the offspring of Divinity itself, and, therefore, the Holy One,
which will not see corruption. When he believes this, he at once,
vile and sinful as he has hitherto believed himself to be, finds his God.
| There is but one Saviour, Jehovah, manifested to us in Jesus, and all we
are His brethren ; the same holy blood flow in our veins, and we are the
| righteous branches of the pure vine. It is our unbelief which keeps us
! back from manifesting all the powers of Jehovah, and we go about doing
! our own will and reasoning, instead of doing His will and believing.
| It is the Holy One who holds the keys of David, and shutteth and no
man openeth, and openeth and no man shutteth, and everyone who
| believes will find he has that key in his hand, and will go out to save
j others. He saved others ; Himself He cannot save. When man
1 believes, as Jesus did, that he is one with His Father, he ceases to be
troubled about his own soul, but goes about doing good by his very
presence, longing not to evoke his own soul’s spirit, but to awaken his
brethren to know God as the centre of their Divine being. When man
knows Jehovah as his life he has not to determine to love the Lord, or
resolve to live a life of purity ; it is the natural outcome of the renewed
being to do these things, for it is a part of the Divine nature of which
he is. Then he understands the word, “ sacrifice and offering thou ddst
not desire, mine ears hast thou opened, burnt offering and sin-offering
hast thou not required. Then said I, Lo ! I come, in the volume of the
I book written of me; I delight to do Thy will, oh, my God, yea, Thy law
| within my heart.”
This is the true and high theosophy taught by Jesus. No prepara-
| tion is needed but a humble, receptive spirit, waiting upon Jehovah,
I who is within, to work out in us our salvation, we being quiescent,
I living in love one towards another and all flesh.
| As we live on the Logos, made flesh and dwelling in us, that which
is without will become as that which is within. Men will cease to know
matter as apart from spirit, for they will know themselves to be of the
same substance as the Spirit, full of power and truth. Equal to the
Father as touching His Godhead, and less than the Father as touching
His Sonship, he will know himself to be spirit, made manifest in flesh.
One body, one spirit, even as there is' one assurance of our calling.
One love, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, above all,
through all, and in all. And the peace of God, which passeth all
understanding, keeps our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.
February 1st, 1879. E. T. Matheson.
THOUGHT-READING AND CONJURING.
Sir,—While sympathising with and appreciating Mr. Serjeant Cox’s
| able paper on thought-reading, published in your issue of the 21st, the
1 greater part of which I would cordially subscribe to, I much regretted
Feb. 28, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
107
to find that he has fallen, as I believe, into the error in common with j
many Spiritualists, of regarding the public exhibitions of so-called
clairvoyance as genuine psychological phenomena. If it is not tres¬
passing too much upon your space, I think it will be interesting to j
many of your readers if I explain how these apparent feats are per- !
formed. In the first place, I may say that I have, to some extent, in- !
vestigated the matter, having recollections of Professor Anderson, and
having several times experimented with young Taylor at the Polytechnic,
and with “ Louie ” and her “ papa ” at the Royal Westminster j
Aquarium. As the last-named performers are more especially alluded
to by Serjeant Cox, and are probably more familiar to your readers, |
besides being essentially the same as all others, I will endeavour to
show that “ Louie’s” clairvoyance is merely the result of committing to
memory a previously arranged elaborate classified code.
Serjeant Cox gives an account of one of his interviews with Louie
and her papa in a very unscientific way, in my opinion. If he had
taken down the questions as asked by her,father verbatim, he would
have found that they varied in almost every instance, to some slight
extent, imperceptible save to those on the watch in that direction. If
he had noted every word of the questioner each time, with the corre¬
sponding answer, he would have obtained the key to a part of the code,
which, when explained, will be seen to possess the merit of comparative
simplicity, though, like short-hand, it would, no doubt, take a con¬
siderable time to learn thoroughly. Of course an indefinite number of
codes, each one different, might be arranged. I have not had the one
used by Louie and her father explained to me, but I will briefly show the
principles upon which all codes of this kind are based.
There are a great number of ways in which a simple question may be
asked, far more than any one would dream of who had not previously
given any thought to the subject. Supposing I wished to arrange a
clairvoyant code for numerals from 1 to 9999, I could do it by asking
a question in ten thousand different ways, and each way of asking the
question “ What is it V would immediately suggest the correct answer.
To explain. I arrange ten simple questions for the units 0 to 9, thus :—
“ Tell me,” suggests 0; “ Tell me, come?” suggests 1; “ Tell me, now,”
suggests 2; “ Tell me, Louie,” suggests 3; “ Tell me, my dear,” sug¬
gests 4 ; “ Tell me, quick,” suggests 5; “ Tell me, will you?” suggests
6 ; “ Tell me what it is,” suggests 7 ; “ Tell me, do 1” suggests 8;
u Tell me, at once,” suggests 9. And by placing “ tell me ” after the
word we have thus:—“ Come, tell me,” suggests 10; “ Now, tell me,”
suggests 20, and so on; and “ Come now, tell me,” suggests 120;
“ Come now, Louie, tell me,” suggests 1230, &c.
By using the words “ clearly ” or “ please ” before the word I double
or repeat the numeral suggested, thus;—“Tell me, please, come,” sug¬
gests 11; “ Tell me, please, now,” suggests 22, and so on. With this
simple code, which could be committed to memory in half an hour, I
could suggest by a question any imaginable combination of figures, from
1 to 9999, or even more, without attracting any particular attention from
the peculiarity of the questions asked.
Let us take some examples at random, and find questions suggesting
the numbers 8,778, 5,719, 9,756, 4,433, and 2,004. 1st. “Tell me,
Louie, what it is, do ? ” suggests 3,778. 2nd. “Tell me, quick, what it is
at once ” suggests 5,719. 3rd. “ Tell me at once what it is, will you ? ”
suggests 9,756. 4th. “Tell me clearly, my dear, please Louie?” sug¬
gests 4,433. 5th. “Now, please, tell me, my dear?” suggests 2,004.
As these numbers have been selected entirely at random, it follows that
any other combinations suggesting numbers could be framed with equal
facility.
The code for miscellaneous articles might be roughly classified in this
way L Questions commencing “ What” suggest metal. 2. Questions
commencing “ Now ” suggest things animal or human. 3. Questions
commencing “Please” suggest leather. 4. Questions commencing
“ Come ” suggest articles of attire. 5. Questions commencing “ Can
you ” suggest cardboard or 'paper. And so on, to perhaps a dozen or
twenty classes.
Examples.—“What’s this?” “A bunch of keys.” “What is
this?” “A key.” “What’s this, Louie?” “A pencil-case.”
“What’s this, quick?” “A ring.” “Now, plain or with stones?”
“ With stones.” “ Tell me, do, how many stones ? ” “ Eight.” See
numeral code above. “Now, what’s this?” “Ahead.” “Plenty of
hair or bald?” “Bald.” “How many hairs?” “274.” “Is that
right, sir?” Laughter. “Can you tell me what this is?” “A
visiting card.” “ Tell me, Louie, how many initials to the name ? ’’
“Three.” See numeral code. “Tell me the first?” “B.” “And
now the second ? ” “ C.” “ Perhaps you can tell me the third ? ”
“ R.” “ Can you tell me the name? ” Pause. “Now, Louie, I want
the name, please ? ” Pause. “ Quick, I must have it, Louie ? ” The
name is then given after about three questions are asked, and the
address, sometimes ; but it should be borne in mind that it takes many
questions to elicit surnames and addresses, whereas Christian names
are given immediately.
The above examples are given to show that parts of the code are
arranged to suggest each letter of the alphabet, all ordinary
Christian names, and combinations of two or three letters for surnames,
&c. As a rule the initials only on a visiting card are given, on account
of the increased difficulty and chance of making mistakes. After
exhausting all the available objects within reach, the performer finishes
up by touching in succession, in his walk back towards the stage, a
number of articles—easily within reach—previously agreed upon, such
as hat, gloves, umbrella, bonnet, ring, scarf, cloak, ear-rings, &c.,
asking Louie the same question for each, so as to throw people with the
“ code theory ” off the scent.
In the above I have given the merest rudiments of a very crude code.
It may be easily imagined that two people who devote their whole lives
to learning and perfecting a code of signals between each other, arrive
at a degree of perfection far surpassing even the imagination of the
people whose sphere it is to be taken in. I have been much amused
and entertained by the exhibition at the Westminster Aquarium, and
telling “ how it’s done ” is like taking the gilt off the gingerbread. It
will always be to me a clever and pleasing performance; but for the
credit of inquirers into Spiritualism I trust they will hesitate before
accepting from professional conjurers, as evidence of so important a
truth as thought-reading or clairvoyance, what is merely the result of
long practice and adroitness in the art of deceiving.
Fbed. Baubett.
Leacroft, Staines, Feb. 23rd, 1879,
SEANCES WITH LONDON MEDIUMS.
Sm,—I have, since my arrival in London, attended two seances, suf¬
ficiently remarkable, I think, to be worthy of record in The Spiritualist.
The first of these was with Mr. Fletcher, whom I had never seen before
meeting him here, and who could, by no possibility, know anything of
my private affairs. And, indeed, had he been for years a familiar friend
he could not, from knowledge gained as such, have described so accu¬
rately, as they were described in my seance with him, circumstances,
people, and the results of personal character upon existing conditions.
I have had many sittings with what are called test mediums, but a
large proportion of them have been either wholly disappointing or very
unsatisfactory from the extreme vagueness of the statements made, and
from an evident desire to elicit information by inducing the sitter to put
leading questions, or in other ways to throw light upon that which it was
desirable to see. But in the case of Mr. Fletcher the words were poured
out like water from an overflowing fountain, waiting for no comment, and
needing no suggestion to clear the way for the free and full current of
words which carried instant and irresistible conviction of true clair¬
voyant power. There was no shirking of distinct statements, no vague¬
ness, none of that allegorical word-painting capable of bearing almost
any signification which it might suit the fancy or the needs of the sitter
to attach to it, and with which any one who has had much to do with
trance mediums is only too familiar.
Individual character, states of mind, events past and present were
so clearly delineated, that what was said could only bear one meaning;
and it certainly was startling to see reflected in this magic mirror what
he, through whose medial power it was held up before me, could know
absolutely nothing about.
Mr. Fletcher might have been acquainted with me for years, and
have seen little or nothing of certain things which were spoken of
through his lips, as if the inner life, hidden behind a veil which even
friendship might not lift, were as familiar to him as household words.
In my experience I have met only one other test medium who so well
deserved the name; and of all the sittings I have had of this character,
the most impressively convincing was the one to which I have alluded,
without any attempt to describe it, for to do that would be manifestly im¬
possible. Those things which carry conviction with startling force to
one’s own mind and heart, are just those which cannot be talked
j about; at least, this is very often the case, as it certainly is in this
j instance.
| The other seance to which I have referred was held in the rooms of
| Mr. Williams last Thursday evening. I went, in company with Mrs.
\ Woodforde and my sister ; no other ladies were present, and only three
1 gentlemen beside the medium, one of them just entering upon a course
i of investigation.
l ' Mr. Williams’s right hand was, during the whole seance, held by my
[ sister, and the other by one of the gentlemen. We witnessed the usual
v manifestations of brilliant lights darting about—like our American fire-
j); flies—of winding-up the large music-box, and of the ringing of a small
i | j bell, which sailed over our heads with a star of light upon it to mark its
i \ | rapid flight through the air. The grand, full, mellow voice of John King
i j | welcomed us; and although he was, as he said, unable on that night to
i (j make himself visible, Peter materialised his face, showing it to us by
j 11 the light he held. This face was as delicate and clear cut as a Greek
. I j j cameo, and looked, in its pearly whiteness, like an alabaster vase, trans-
111 lucent, and lighted from within. The features were beautiful, and a
| \ | veil, not apparently more material than a white cloud, falling over the
j) | bowed head; and while this face floated above the table, coming close
U j to the sitters, one by one, we plainly saw the flexible lips move as the
jji eager voice asked, “Do you see me? Do you see me now?” We
I ) | thus saw a floating human head, with a mouth that moved and spoke,
i (j concentrating itself from a nebulous mist till it appeared somewhat as
|) | the full moon does when we see it on a clear night, and can imagine the
|) | dark spots to bear some resemblance to a face; and from this vague
! (| semblance it gathered shape and substance till the whole countenance,
j{ i with its delicate outlines and sweet, serious expression, was unmistak-
;) I ably visibly to us; then again melting into an undefined spot of light,
II j and from that fading gradually away.
i j | Mr. Williams would have to be a conjurer of wonderful ability to
i)! produce such an appearance as this, with no apparatus about him
i (i specially prepared for the purpose. And if he have such elaborate
|) | contrivances as would be needed to effect these varied and remarkable
| j! results, those who seek for and fail to discover the least trace of them
i j j must, one would think, be rather inefficient detectives. John King being
i) i requested to shake hands with us, a large, strong, and very cold right
j) | hand grasped mine, the right hand of the medium being all the time
I j | held or touched by my sister.
i) | Four different voices talked with us—three quite loudly; and two
|) | spoke much more softly (one quite in a whisper) to my sister, who sat
I {-! next to me. We have a friend in America, an Englishwoman, who is a
|)! powerful medium, and through her an Indian spirit, calling himself
; 11 Big Wolf, often speaks in the independent voice. This spirit promised
in that he would, if permitted, speak to us here; and just as my sister
|) | spoke of feeling a presence close to her side, the very peculiar and
|) | characteristic laugh of this Indian was heard, and he said, not in his
| usual loud voice, but with much evident effort, “ Big Wolf,” again
108
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 28, 1879.
laughing in his own odd way. The name was not so distinctly spoken
as to make me feel myself absolutely certain of it, but the laugh was
very characteristic and well remembered, as we had heard it many
times at home.
I received in this sitting two very marked tests, which certainly were
quite unlooked-for, as I had expected only physical manifestations.
Through two other mediums in London—one of them private—the same
old friend had come, and been described as holding out to me bound
books and a bundle of manuscript. Through one of these mediums he
expressed the strongest desire that I should prepare for publication a
volume which he hoped to have seen in print before he past away. .Not
a word had been said of this, when at the seance on Thursday night
Mr. Williams described and gave the full name of this friend, saying,
“ There is a book of his which he wants Mrs. Andrews to get
published^”
When the spirit Peter was speaking of two little boys who were present
(the tiny hand of one had been patting mine and my sister’s at intervals
throughout the sitting), he said, “ Mrs. Andrews’s little boys wish me
to say that David is here with them.” Some in the circle asked,
“ Who is David ? ” I was silent, but the spirit replied, “ He is not a
relative, only a dear friend; ” which was quite true. I had not
thought of his manifesting his presence on this occasion, and the
familiar name startled me, coming so unexpectedly through the lips of
another spirit, to whom both he and I were strangers.
There was also another name mentioned by the medium—that of a
friend known to no one here.
Surely, if intrinsic evidence of genuine medial power be possible, I
obtained it in these seances, which I have sketched only in faint out¬
line. Nothing is so difficult, perhaps nothing more impossible, than
to prove even the most matter-of-fact thing, generally accepted as
such, if absolutely perfect, unquestionable evidence, affording ho loop¬
hole of escape, and having no weak point assailable by critical logic or
resistable by determined scepticism, be demanded: and I know that
no evidence possibly attainable through spiritual phenomena can suffice
to convince people of anything—not even of the existence of the
phenomena themselves. They may always be set aside as mere sub¬
jective visions, delusions of a morbid imagination, or as the tricks of a
clever impostor. Therefore, I never testify to what I have seen with
any expectation of being believed by sceptics, nor with any
hope of living to see justice done to the sensitives, through whom
alone we can obtain those manifestations so invaluable in their sug¬
gestiveness, and in the evidence they afford of an intelligent power
acting outside the physical body. But I nevertheless feel that the
truth should be told, let who will reject it. “ He that hath ears to hear,
let him hear.” Louisa Andrews.
1, Bernard-street, Russell-square, London.
MY MOTHER’S GARDEN.
BY ELLA DIETZ.
I know where wild flowers blow,
In the early, early spring,
In a dear old garden far away,
Where my soul in dreams doth often stray,
When the winds are whispering j
And under the grey old apple trees,
I see the wind-flower nod in the breeze,
And I hear the blue-birds sing.
The apple trees are gray and bare,
But soon they will be white,
And the sweet song-birds will fill the air,
With echoes of delight.
In the trailing rose that I love best,
The tiny wrens will build their nest.
The purple flags are growing, .
By many a rock and stone :
The foxgloves white are blowing
On the hillside all alone.
And under the leaves of shining green
The periwinkles’ blue is seen.
The locust trees upon the hill
Are laden with sweet flowers ;
For in my dreams sweet June has come
With all its sunny hours,
And red, red roses everywhere
Shed odours sweet upon the air.
And when the night has fallen,
We sit and watch the stars,
Sometimes ’neath the vine-covered porch,
Or through the lattice bars ;
And the well-known constellations rise
And shine on us like loving eyes.
! < j The blossoms of the tender vine
! ) j Give out their fragrance rare ;
I ( j So sweet the promise of the wine,
! | j So sweet beyond compare :
| ) | Methought some presence half-divine
| ) | Was borne upon the air.
|) | And warmer, warmer grow the days,
| i i The cherries are red-ripe,
| ( i The robin loudly chants their praise
I) | From out his golden pipe;
| j | The strawberries are lingering on,
j ( | And currents red will come anon.
j) I At eve upon the hill’s green side
I ( I We sit, and far below
i) | We see the river’s flowing tide,
I i | Lit by the moon’s pale glow;
i ( | And through the misty shadows dark
I) j Is seen the firefly’s tiny spark.
O summer days ! 0 summer hours !
i)! When will ye come again ?
|) 0 summer nights, with cooling showers !
| ( O days of summer rain !
) O hills, where golden summer lies,
) When will ye greet my longing eyes ?
j ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
) i W. 0. H.—In the Nineteenth Century.
) j Published to-Day,
| SPIRIT-IDENTITY,
| | By M.A. (Oxon).
( i Cloth 8vo, red edges, price 5s, post free,
j I The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
| ! Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
) I Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
j | minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
( j Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
j j writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
) I The book also contains some
! SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
j Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
) The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
| STUDIEN UBER DIE GKEISTERWELT,
! By the Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
| j Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
j j The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
) | Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
| SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
| I This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
j ] observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ-
I i ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
) 1 “ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review.
) ]. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
5 j Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
| ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
| By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
( j Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
j i Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
) I “Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
| | Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
( | The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, Loudon.
I j Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
) | Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
| i poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
( I excellence.
) i The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
THE SPIRITUALIST
111
Feb. 28, 1879.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
BESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, E.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor oi
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to Mm
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. VoL I. Gt. flarmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III. „
TheReformei „ IV. „
The Thinker. „ V. .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual .
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
.he Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures . . . •
s. d.
15 o
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
0
6
6
6
C
0
7 6
2 0
3 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . 2 6
Keys of the Creeds ...... A 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . .' . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my .Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or. A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’.auction of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Oollyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation oi the United States of America
at Constantinople. ... 1 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, pri se
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.'
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Oolby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“ As a dispassionate scientiflo man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Orookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, hut also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of & priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
•facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientiflc spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
Intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence be has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged hfs task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and +hose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—Nouf/i Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdmaud Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—^Testimony of Vanous Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV.—^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter Vl Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Uoss-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena In America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Bane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutai'ch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and-Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt —
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Murtineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely hound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin's discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
1. —That Attested by the Senses:—
p Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J.L. O’Sullivan
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherhee, H. B. Storer
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaie—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation oi
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association,of SpirituaMsts;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. WaUace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wvld
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were .
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post tree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful hook to place in public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the tranee-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship ot
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium
ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
Vi.—Angel-Guarded.
Vh.—An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII.—The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals
ByEmile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A .
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady ot Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burae.
XXII —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—‘‘ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislinghury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII —The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “M.A., Oxon."
XXIX.—A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX “ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI.—The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIll.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV. — The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“ M.A, Os.on.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Predicaon. By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalural Philosophy,
Berne; translated firom Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis¬
lingbury
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harris on.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
C/2L^d&l\
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massoy.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties' of the Clergy in Relatiolr to
Spiritualism. ByLisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLI V.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G. S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
IVjTEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
-lYJL VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at 2'he Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.: or six copies post free
for 6d.
^TlSSf
WBBm
Wr
T H Ei 3'P IR I T U
Feb. >28^ 1879:
3Price.6d.; post.free,-Tjd^Vcloth. d
Prize Essays.^ ' .
ImHE . PROBABLE EFFJEjQIS ,,0F SPIRIT
f L UAiLI^M-'tfPblir Tbs fsOCmL, Mt)RAL, *ANl).REtI
GIOUS' GONDITJON- 0 E >S0CIE'B5. vvT-w6iEssa,ys' by Miss
Anna Blackwell and K[r..G.^|',iGr,een...,r A#
. These ^EBigArA ’V^PN^THElEipSTtl&'NJ'SEEOijr'D - GOHD'MEDi.iiS
.of the British National assomation'ot Spirithaiists.]
2TieASpi?ifMafis^‘Newspaper'’Brancli'’Offlce, London.
LUIirAC,Y, TiA^Y. amendment society
•,'4' ‘V^ifie'OiHce-co,ul,^i Fleet-street?;''OfQce hours, daily
between 11' and- 3 {(Saturdaysjj,l ‘.ajidlJl). : Secretary, James
Billington, who wilL receive .all letters1 for Mrs. Weldon.
MRS.; PARKER’S NEW ART OF HEALING.
' (Scientific, Psychological, and Restorative.)
[ 66,(WARWICK STREET, BELGRAVE ROAD, S.W.
N.B.—References to eminent medical gentlemen.
.Lectures to Ladies on Wednesdays,'at 3 o'clock: subject,
‘Health.” Her Tonic for the Skin gives youth and bloom,
instead of age and wrinkles. When conditions are favourable
Mrs. Parker is clairvoyant.
PRIMITIYE CHRISTrANITY AND/MODEBN
;t'SPiRirmLiS]k."; H
By EUGENE:-.GROWEliL, M.D.
One Qf the best.books pji|5lished in .cohnectipn, with Modern
Spiritualism for many ^eafs, and-a "standard work on'''the
subject. . The^antborfhas'-Studiedjthe facts arid phenomena for
.a lengthened period,'-and deals.in an intelligent mariner with
the problems arid dijfic$ties presented.
In two vrilsj; price 10s.'6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
IN .thirty .years,Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised Countries.on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands qf adherents,.and abqut thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived ijhej same ipopiijari ri^lu?e the outset
opposed railways,"gasj and tGalileo’s discovery of."the rotation
of the earth*. M
The Dialectical' Society,' under I the ‘.presidency of Sir- J ojm
Lubbock, appointed'a large^cbmmittee, which-for two ySars
investigated <thrii)hbrioirieriasclricrifriri^,in'the presence of.■non¬
professional mediums, and'firiaUyTripprtpdithty the facts ■W'eriB'
true, that the raps..ani.otber,n'ojs,e"s go,yjernedjby intelligence,
were real, and that s<)lid:bbje.Cts ririgibtime^‘,rii6ved'in'the.prie'-
sence of me'diuirislwithout ibeirig,fp'uqhe(J. ...''.ri V .'
Mr. William Crooke?, F.R.S.;, editor oi\Yi$QuapterJp.JuppnaJ,''
of Science; deviser of the radiometer,'and:-discoverer,of the
new metal:thallium, investigated the phenomenal of Spirit-''
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true.: Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr-Cromwell.Varley, Prof. Zbllner, arid a great
number of iritelligent professional nien have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT OIROLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present..
The assertions of a few newspapefs,, conjurers, and men
of science that the. alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue ' by •the fabt' that* mariifestations are
readily obtained by private fabiiHes, .ydth no’;.stranger
present, and without, deception by any, member of, the. famjly^
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pio-fl
fessiqnal. mediums for the'physiCab phenomena in all Greht
Britain, consequently,'if-thesewere all'tricksters^whieh they,
are not), they are so few im.nuiriber as'to bb uriabiedo bear *
out the imposture theory as the f oupdatioh.of fee great'mover'
merit of -modern Spiritualism- ^Readers shquld protectltherii-' [
selves against any , impostors, who may* tell .them that" the",'
phenomena are not'real,';h'y'tfyirig simple! home'eiqp’eriments,
which cost nothing, thus-showing* ho w legregiously'those‘dire
duped who trust in worthless authorities: f!
One or more persons possessing medial, powers without
knowing it are to be, found in nearly everyihpusehold, arid
about one new circle; in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena
,1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, flye, .or six individuals,
about the same nuinber of each Sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow every thing to be seen'clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface.1 . Wh'ether the hands touch, each
other or not is of little importance, Any table will do; \
3. Belief or unbelief has: no influence' en the'mariifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them'i's weakening.' ')
4. Before the iriariifeslati'oris begin,'if iS'w'ell to’ erigagein
general conversation or in singing, and it is best-that neither.'
should be of a frivolous nature.,
6. The first symptom of- the-invisible power at work-is often
a feeling like a cool wind s weeping, ovqr tlje hands'.' Thtf first
indications will pr.obably be table'tiltings or raps:
6. When motions of the table 'or'SoritfdS are produced freqly,'
to avoid confusion let one.person, only speak; ,hesshouldftalk
to the table as to an intelligent-being.! Let him tell the table'
that three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,”, one means.,“No,’' and
two mean “Doubtful,” and-ask-whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given An answer, then say, “ If
I speak the letters of the 'alphabet slowly, -willyou' signal
every time I come to the letter you want,, and spell us but a
message ? ” Should three signals,.-be given,, set to .work bn.the
plan proposed, and from this time an iritelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of.
messages, as judged by their religious arid philosophical-'
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are'
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two siances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Just Published,
I Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt
THE LAZY LAYS .
AND PRO SE ilM AGININ-GS
BY yriLLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
f The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the •
Author.
.' Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems, and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle 6. The
j Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The ■ Poetrymf Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
■ Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben‘Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s‘Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the-Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.1
—13. Materialistic Religion.—l3.‘'The Layfof .the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The.
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbelrbewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay "of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The'
Angel of1 Silence.4
hart 2.—The Wobblcjaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws. <
,24.! ThePublic 'Analyst.—26. 'General'Gfarit’s'Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28.' The July
Bug.—29.'The Converted Carman. i .
, OpinionSjOf the Press. „ 1 t
From The-Morning Post.*'. - !
Hhe- Morping Post, which strongly recommends , the book in a
reyi§>w:'neayly;a/column long, -says“Cd'mic literature .which
horiesljyydo^eryestthefepithet .seems to be rapidly-.'-becoming a
tfupg of tho,pas,t ;icpnse3riently any writer who, likq Mr. Harrison,
exhibfte a genuine vein: of jirimour,'.deserves the pi;aisp of all who
are iipt;fo'o'|tiipid'1io'erijoy'an innocent laugh'.'yNdt matihis muse
restiiitcts her,selfi6nly,;to srichhghteh utterances Con'the contrary, ■
some.ofihis poems'touch: on the deepest arid iriosTsariredheelings
ofourlfcoinMtavhuirianity. ■.4 .vTliemfifovtuhate 'Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures ,amongst the magicians. of . Whiteqh'apeUs quite
one of,the fuimiest things .thatilias .been published."foi-.-years, ...
The book, contains, quite. enougli tp ensure it a welcome, from.
which'its tasteful appearance will, riot detract.” . Tlie. 'Mdrning
Post’says of The Wooblejgw Ballads:—“Plo one can help laughing'
at them,” and it says that the Yhyines are pitched in “ soriSemiri'g'
like the same key. . as The' Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglbio'
Papers, “ with an appreciably, successful result.” . '
From The Court Journal. .
“All are of marked ability... .‘Occasionally we find verse of,
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.”
From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate .genuine, unforced 'hrimour*'should
not fail to read The^Lafj)-Lay$' and1‘Prose Irhaqiifings.' Written,1
printed, published-aridTeviewetlby William H. Harrison (38,‘Great
Russell-street). ♦ Both-the.verses andv the..short essdys are really
funny, and In some-of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy .to the fun. Tlie.Layofthe Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather;severe, arid so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one'of the most Idugh'able bits Is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.— 
, i From Public Opinion.
A»volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us.of.ttie wild chants that used to he sung at the
medtiri^s of the Cannibal Club,pome ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrisom-hoy^ver,’krib'vYs where tt> plant his fun, and an accn-
rate;sQierirific,riniifd.:like-hjs pan majee jokps with success.... To
all who wishfo T.ead'a'ril'easant' volume magnificently got up as a
gift-hook, we commend The Lazy Lays."
(A .... Prom The Bookseller.
An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written' with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and ,
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to, *
and the imprint hears that the work Is published ‘a.d. 1877 .
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077 ’
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
Prom The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
iarriin verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
alliof.them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
jamusing-reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con-
itai'n nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
Prom.TheBublin Vnhersity Magazine.
Haw.IJadji Al,Shacabac,' an amiable Turk, was photographed,
Is well done.'.. .‘ Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
Mr. W. H, Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
corinection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and.deals, in-pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
i “ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a niost welcome hook.. .‘How Hadji al Shacabac was .Photo¬
graphed,’.will he sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
j “Withisuch a. free, and easy.author it is naturally to beexpected
jthgrihis.Siubjects shquld.bear some trace of this peculiar idlosyn-
fcrasyV.arid iode.edjney are as free, and easy,as himself.-. • . The
poems are all characterised by;smopthness and rhythmical swing.
£ .'. The work iSJveiy ^elaborately bound in cloth-and gilt.... A
gorgeous,designupon.the cover.... If out readers wish to en¬
tourage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From fhe Liverpool Daily Courier.
’ “ In his handsomely hound-and. griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William.H. Harrigon provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its'contents...'. The-author is imbued
with.the true spirit-of humour, and. amuses all wliile offending
none.”.- ... « : . .
■ From The Western Daily Press (Bristol). ,
“A.volume from tBe-versatile pferi ofMr.'.W. H. Harrison, a
;welj-known contributor to the London and provincial .press, and
(editor: of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous'poems re-
jmind us o f the Ingoldsby Legends. ■ The Lay of the Photographer
\The- Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not.have been -unworthy of-B arham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers/’
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
.Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.’’
Prom Phe Bristol Daily Po£t.S. : •
\"A, curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
meifit.’.. The serious and 'seiitimdhtal Verses.hqlong to, the type
of Mrs. Heirians's or L. E. B.’s productions.” | t. fi|
TlW/r Frppc\-.TheKensingtanNews. / fKt&jl
•Ibis " aftAthe manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any;
ofitboj^/mejipy.spujj.'who.do quite as much good in(their dayand»
generation as the authors of the most serious works, A, The Lays'
are always-.wrigini^,(,spnaetimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar’”" f ;
‘ ‘V / From The Malvern News.
.“It is: in- if self ta: work., of itself,—original, and a cast-of its
author’s mind.-. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding In
tenderness arid pathos; sparkling with wit and humour;. arid one
that may be read many trine's over... The get-up of the book"ist
very handsome..”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers, entitled -The Wobblejaw Ballads, which,
appeared in the columns-of‘ this'paper a short time ago,
and which created such 7 a” jtorore 'at»the time." [N.B.'-An
irate member of the Town Council offtcjally called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone’to the- burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,’’ but the members' assembled laughed at‘the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
didnot mind them.\ ...“ It contains some very choice poems,
and prose essays, is bound }n cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
oa
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Greooby, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry' at Edinburgh University, ■
Dedicated by the Author. by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of'Atgyll. *
The second and slightly;revised and abridged edition, for
' its. quality-andjsize the, cheapest large work ever'published .
in this'jcountry in connedtibn with Spiritualism.
Just .published, price' 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for121s. .. Oppies may also be had bound.in half
calf, with-marbled edges, price Ss.’ySd. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS
■CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will: and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAP1ER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the/Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of'Error—Medical Irituition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies ahd Antipathies—Existence .of a. Peculiar Force
of Influence. *
CHAPTER IVDirect Clairvoyance- or Lucid. Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near’Objects: through'.- Opaque,* Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard, to'Absent Persons
—Retrdvision-i-Tntrdvision.
CHAPTER'V :—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted-Prediction of Changes'ln theHealth.or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others—Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of. it—Spontaneous Retfovisidn
arid Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech, and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference'or Serise.s and of Pain.
CHAPTER 'VP:—Mesmerism, Electrfi-Bioiogy, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially’the satne—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method, and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—Th'e" Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must he Studied.
CHAPTER VII’:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Tfance Produced, ai. Will bylfye S objects—CpL,Towiisend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsriot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
I often Predicted—M. Cahrignet’s Extatics—Visions of the S liritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII :'Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Pnrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom-
: eria—Suggestion—iSympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which .they'do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals j Susceptible. • of , Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of ' Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded bn It:
'CHAPTER IX-:— Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
: Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the-
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Qdylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications o,
j Mesmerism—Phsysiolosfical, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan
ity. Magic, Divinatiori, Witchcratt,' etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural’Carises—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Ekplari&tion of the Phenomena Attempted or
, Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of, Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam-
brilism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcratt—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Olairvoyance-7-Universal.Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
j the Future.
i CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
(Thing—Cautionstb'be'Student—Opposition to be Expected.
’ CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena . Observed in the Conscious or
Waging State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an impressible
, State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases—Conscious or Waking
'Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by , Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER Xlil:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep-^Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Phrish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London E.O.
