IIeG3 SIKIUJD AS A NEWSrAPEfi.
No. 399.—(Yol. XYI.—No. 16.) LONDON: FEIDAY, APRIL 16, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARE, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel*street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STEEET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
~ THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRO A UM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to u The Proprietors of ( The Theosophist’ ” at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with having written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 16, 1880,
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Rod Edges.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
61, LAMB S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from IS till 8. On ThurtdaT and
Saturday evening* from 8 o'clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Homo every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Stelaway Hall, Lover Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o'clock.
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand,
THE MEDIUMS' BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1868). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tkubxxb avd Co., London.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies ia pre¬
pared to visit patient*. Address, .
MR. OMERIN,
5, jrORTHUXBKHLAJTD 8TKKKT, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth Svo. Red Edges. Price Fire Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.O.
A 2Tcw Tnrautitm.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen's complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing.
Appearance.
IXVESTED AND XADB SOLELY BY
Very Stylish in
NATURE'S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
By this mysterious gift of God to wan, tha moat
shattered oonsUtutions oaa be built up in a abort
tuna, acute oaaaa ourrd in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored .imply by
the influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a naw life-potrrr to the nervous or feeble petieut.
Any form or modiumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. W ritten instructions
with anointing oil for aome use, or self tri slntstil
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER.
Moscow Hocsk (corner of Musooar-road and
Hereford-road}. Bays water, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
M DLLE. IIUET, good Modium for
■L Raps. At bom* from It till 5 o'clock. 173,
Rue St. Honor tf, Faria.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENTS PARK, LONDON, N W.
\f RS. WOODFORDE Any form
Iva Of Msdtunship developed. Mmmcnc Healing
at homo daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from 1
to 3 p.m., i, Kep pel-street, lliisssll sr|nam. w.C.
Crown Svo., pp. 156, cloth, price 8s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its bearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science and Religion.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . .His eclecticism has led him to recognise philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics; and we nave rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Roll Mall
Oasetts.
London : Tbubnkb and Co., Ludoatb Hill.
32 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 3d.
RATIONALE OF SPIRITUALISM.
E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria Lane.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photo*, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee ts. Sd.
Address, Mias Rom, cure of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-rood, Earis-court, 8.W.
T UNAOY LAW REFORM
ASSOCIATION, St, Berners strrer, and 78,
Chancery Lana, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 80 to 4 pm. Saturdays I to I
T’HE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
X OR TUB TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Betmar* This teeefterv con¬
tains a series of iUoai rations, setting forth the evening
adventure* of Profsosor Molecule, F.H.8., X.Y
B.I.OJLS.8., and his assistant. Dr. frotoplasier, in
their invostigatlon of Spiritual Phenomena. It ia an
excellent little book tor distribution among adentiAc
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newnsspsr
mys that the pamphlet displays real genius. Fries8d,
Ml free Pld. zh* ^phifsaWsf Newspaper Branch
zBce, 33. Museum street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
TEE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and oonolusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-oolf 8s. 6d.
osfc free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
Ths Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O.
A RLI85 ANDREWS, Letterpress,
e~\. Copperplate and Lithographic 1 Vinter, SI,
Museum Btrovt, Bloomsbury, w.C. Three doors
from Great Bussell Street.
ALLEGORICAL SKETCHES
L\- The Christmas No. of
"THE BETTER LIFE."
Pries la Sd.
Virronu Srciif Passe, 117, FraedStreet, London, W.
/r1HINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
J ▼ARE. Co-operative Stores and nil ether
Storm fully aquaOea tf not superseded far China,
CHaae, and Ra: then ware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the sciallost margin of profit on the pro-
payment system
J. M. DALE,
M, Crawford-otrsot, Bryanston-aquare, London.
V3"
el’
% of % Jhjagnps of anh of ^pi^iluaKsm,
No. 399.—VOLUME SIXTEEN; NUMBER SIXTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Prick Twopence.
10s. I0d. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
Tkt Spiritualist
Hts Imperial Hiomrns Ni>|
cholas of Roans, Duke ofj
Leurhtenberg
The Loan Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess 1
or Caithness
The Baroness Von Vay, Coun¬
tess Worm brand (Austria)
The Hoe. Robert Dale Owen,!
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakov,I
St. Petersburg
Sir Charles I sham, Bart.
Caft. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.8.,
C. G. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexandre Caldke, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National;
Association of Spiritualists
Oolovel H. 8. Oloott, President
of the Theoeophioal Society of
New York
Mrs. Maxdouoall Gebooey
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne)
Captain John James
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.8.A.
Mrs. 8. 0. Hall
Euqenb Gao well. Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wild, Esq., LL.D.
The Ret. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jenckbn, Esq., M.R.I.
O Blackburn, Esq., Parkfield,
Didsbury, near Manchester
J. T. Mauley, Esq. Madame Iaabbl db Stbioeb
TJu SpirUmmliM has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at S3, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve |\I
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstraaae, )|
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della M&ltonia, Florence; Signor
Boooa, Librario, Via del Oorso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Naatonale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefetaad, Enhertog 23. Alex- j ? <
under Gases, Buda-Peath ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne; tel
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 61. East Twelfth-street, New
York; Bmttntr of Light Offioe, 9, Montgomery-plaoe, Boston, K|
U.8.; Rtlipio-PAitooophtiol Jottmol Offioe, Chicago ; 819, Kear- Jsl
noy-street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia; .),
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
Prince Emile db Satw Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Von Disckinck . Holm-
feld (Holstein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of ' <
the Supreme Court, New York.
The Count db Bullet
The H< n. J. L. O'Sullivan
M. Adelbrrth db Bourbon
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
William CaooKn, Esq., F.RS.
jC. F. Vabley, K«q,,C.E., F.R.S.
I St. Geo rob W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
II. Friesk. Esq., Ph.D., Breslan |s|
! J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
| Ena Sargent, E*q.
Hkxkleioh Wedowood, Esq., )|
I J.P.
I Dr. George Wild
: W. Lind ebay Richardson, Esq.,
MI). Melbourne
J, C. Luxmoorr, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake,Esq. Doe.Set. (Si
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
: Aloernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. ]>
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
SJ. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
| (Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL. )
M (Cantab)
T. P. Baekas, Esq.. F.G.S.
J. N. T. Marthxzb, Esq.
Mrs. Showebs
William N KwroN,Esq.,F. R.G.S.
H. O. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
(John E. Pubdon, Esq., M.B., [
India
! William White, Esq.
Miss Florence Marry at
APRIL 16 th, 1880.
MESMERIC EXPERIMENTS.
Last Saturday afternoon, at 33, Museum-
street, London, Mr. S. R. Redman, the Mes¬
merist, performed a few experiments for us,
in the attempt to produce some of the pheno¬
mena of Spiritualism by the power of mes¬
merism.
The sensitive, Mr. Sparke, was thrown into
a mesmeric sleep, and brought to a great
extent under the control of the operator. He
was so much under control, that with his eyes
shat and bound round with a handkerchief, he
followed Mr. Redman everywhere at about a
yard’s distance; for instance, he followed him
round two rooms, then into a passage, then
down and up two flights of stairs, without
touching the walls or anything to guide him
in his path.
He was subsequently made to sit at a table
with writing materials, and silently “ willed ”
by Mr. Redman to write a short sentence
which had been handed to the latter upon a
piece of paper. In the manifest attempt to
read the mesmerist’s thoughts, the face of the
sensitive assumed an expression of earnest
attention; it became flushed, and the veins of
his forehead began to stand out. But the sen¬
tence oould not be passed though his organism
in this way.
“ Well, said Mr. Redman, 11 write what you
please—write something.” The hand of the
somnambulist began to move, and wrote the
word “something” which was a more literal
compliance with the order than was desired.
“ I mean,” said Mr. Redman, “ write what is
now uppermost in your mind.” The sensitive
then wrote “ Your work goiCve got to do” It
was asked, u Who has work to do ? ” The reply
came through the sensitive’s hand, “ G. JV.
Sparke” The question was put “What
work ? ” and the reply came “ What you started
this morning and couldn’t stop to finish” Thus
either some outside intelligence was writing
through his organism, or the sleeper was
curiously enough addressing himself in the
second person.
Seeing that no message could be passed
through the organism of Mr. Sparke by will-
182 THE SPIRITUALIST. April 16. 1880.
power, eight small objects were placed in a row
upon the table, and while the back of the sen¬
sitive was turned, one of them was mesmerised
by Mr. Redman, who then said—“ Now Sparke,
turn round quickly and pick up the object with
a blue light upon it.” He turned, and in¬
stantly picked up the right object out of the
eight; there was not a moment’s hesitation.
This experiment was performed a second time,
but not so quickly, by the sensitive, after which
there were three or four failures. It seemed
as if the concentration of the minds of the ob¬
servers upon the desired result, interfered with
its attainment, as is commonly enough the case
'^relation to the phenomena of spirit circles.
At Mrs. Mary Marshall’s stances it was
a common thing for the spirits to ask a sitter
to write a dozen names upon a slip of paper,
and among them the name of a dead relative.
The sitter was then instructed to point to each
name in succession, and the spirits gave three
raps when he came to the right one. If they
knew the name, why did they not spell it out
at once ? The experiments with Mr. Sparke
may answer the question. It was found to
be easier to make him indicate one object in
eight by mesmeric processes, than to send a
written word through his organism by the
same power.
In the last number of The Spiritualist, a
description was given of the making of
‘‘passes” over the head of a person in a
public audience, who afterwards slipped out
of his seat while Mr. Redman’s back was
turned, and allowed another observer to take
the place. The sensitive then saw (as he was
told to see) a blue light and a rose upon the head
of one of the sitters, but upon the head of the
wrong man in the right seat. An experiment
was tried on Saturday, in the attempt to ascer¬
tain whether he saw the light upon the head
of the wrong man because of mind-sympathy
with Mr. Redman, who believed at the moment
that the light ought to be seen there, or
whether some halo unseen by normal vision
were really hanging over the particular spot.
Accordingly Mr. Redman was blindfolded,
and led about the room by Mr. Harrison till
he did not known his whereabouts; then he
made passes over the head of a sitter (Mr.
Wheelhouse,) whom he could not see, so that
he did not know over whose head he had made
the passes. He then ordered the sensitive,
who had not been allowed to see the preceding
operations, to bring him the blue light which
was upon the head of one of the sitters. With
much slowness and hesitation the sensitive
M tried to lift an invisible nothing, if the phrase
; may be permitted, from the head of Captain
a James. Mr. Redman then stated that the
)| idea had been in his own mind all the time
| that he had mesmerised the head of Captain
■Sj James, although he was not sure of the point,
s Thus the actions of the sensitive seemed in
i I this case to be governed by the unspoken
K| thoughts of the mesmerist.
♦
A DREAM REVELATION.
The following strange dream-story is pub-
K lished in LippincotCs Magazine:—
There is an inexplicable story—which I he¬
rn lieve has never been published—among the
Si traditions of the fat, fertile hill country of
1)1 Western Pennsylvania, the most unlikely quar-
i ter in the world to serve as a breeding place of
K| mystery. It was settled almost wholly by
ijl well-to-do farmers from the north of Ireland,
j)j economical, hard-working folks—God-fearing
|p too, after the exact manner described by John
m Knox, and having little patience with any
|S other manner. Not a likely people, assuredly,
to give credence to any fanciful superstitions,
Ip and still less to originate them. The story,
|p indeed, has a bold, matter-of-fact character in
S every detail, which quite sets it apart from re-
|>j lations of the supernatural. I have never
ip heard it explained, and it is the best authen-
Ip ticated mystery in my knowledge.
Here it is in brief. Among the Scotch-Irish
{ settlers in Washington county, in 1812, was a
! family named Plymire, who occupied a com-
jp fortable farm and house. Rachel, the daugh-
|p ter, was engaged to a young farmer of the
Ip neighbourhood. On a Saturday evening in
Ip July, having finished her week’s work, she
K| dressed herself tidily and started to visit her
|p married sister, who lived on a farm about five
|p miles distant, intending to return on Monday
| morning. She tied up her Sunday gown and
Kj hat in a checkered handkerchief, and carried
p her shoes and stockings in the other hand,
p meaning to walk in her bare feet, and to put
i| them on when she came in sight of her destina-
p tion, after the canny Scotch fashion. She left
p home about seven o’clock in order to have the
>| cool evening for her walk. The road to the
sj farm was lonely and unfrequented. The girl
|p did not return home Monday, but no alarm
Ip was felt, as the family thought her sister would
ji probably wish to detain her for a few days;
Vi and it was not until the latter part of the week
P that it was found that she had never been at
her sister’s. The country was scoured, but in
April 16, 1880,
THE SPIKITUALIST.
183
vain; the alarm spread and excited a degree
of terror in the peaceable, domestic community
which would seem inexplicable to city people,
to whom the newspaper has brought a budget
of crime every morning since their childhood.
To children raised in those lonely hamlets
and hill-farms murder was a far off, unreal
horror.
The girl had left home on Saturday at seven
o’clock. That night long before ten o’clock
(farmers go to bed with the chickens), a woman
living in Green county, about forty miles from
Plymire farm, awoke her husband in great ter¬
ror, declaring that she had just seen a murder
done, and went on to describe a place she had
never seen before—a hilly country with a
wagon road running through it, and a girl with
a bundle tied in a checkered handkerchief, and
shoes and white stockings in the other hand,
walking briskly down the grassy side of
the road. She was met by a young man—the
woman judged from their manner the meeting
was by appointment; they sat down on a log
and talked for some time.
The man at last rose, stepped behind her,
and drawing out a hatchet, struck her twice
on the head. She fell backwards on the wet,
rotten leaves dead. Presently the man was
joined by another, also young, who asked, “ Is
it done?” He nodded, and together they
lifted the body and carried it away out of her
sight. After a while they came back, found
the bundle of Sunday finery and the shoes and
stockings, all of which were stained with blood.
There was a ruined old mill near the road;
they went into it, lifted a loose board in the
flooring, put the bundle, shoes, etc., with the
hatchet, underneath, and replaced the board.
Then they separated and went through the
woods in different directions. The farmer’s
wife told her dream to her husband that night;
the next day (Sunday), going to a little country
church, she remained during the intermission
between the morning and afternoon services.
The neighbours who had come from a circuit
of twenty miles to church, gathered, according
to their homely habit, in the churchyard, to
eat their lunch and exchange the news. Our
dreamer told her story again and again, for she
was impressed by it as if it had been reality.
After the afternoon service the congregation
separated, going to their widely-scattered
homes. There were thus many witnesses ready
to certify to the fact that the woman had told
the dream the morning after the murder was
committed at a distance of forty miles, when it
was absolutely impossible that the news should
k!
i)
! !
have reached her. There were no telegraphs,
we must remember, and no railways in those
days—not even mail carriers in those secluded
districts.
When the story of the girl’s disappearance
was told over the country at the end of the
next week, the people to whom the dream had
been repeated recalled it. Nowadays the mat¬
ter would serve as a good material for the re¬
porters, but the men of those days still believed
that God took an oversight even of their
dreams. Might not this be a hint from him ?
The Rev. Charles Wheeler, a Baptist clergy¬
man, of Washington, well known in Western
Pennsylvania and Virginia a generation ago,
and Mj*. Ephraim Blaine, a magistrate, father
of the present Senator from Maine, and as
popular a man in his narrower circle, drove
over to see the woman who had told the dream.
Without stating their purpose, they took her
and her husband, on pretence of business, to the
Plymire farm. It was the first time in her
life that she had left her own county, and she
was greatly amused and interested. They
drove over the whole of the road down which
Rachel Plymire had gone.
“ Have you ever seen this neighbourhood ?”
one of them asked.
u Never,” she replied.
That ended the matter, and they turned
back, taking a little-used cross road to save
time. Presently the woman started up in
great agitation, crying, “ This is the place I
dreamed of!” They assured her that Rachel
Plymire had not been on that road at all. u I
know nothing about her,” she said, “ but that
girl I saw in my dream came along here; there
is the path through which the man came, and
beyond that turning you will find the log on
which he killed her.” They did find the log,
and on the ground the stains of blood. The
woman, walking swiftly, led them to the old
mill, and to the board under which lay the
stained clothes and the hatchet. The girl’s
body was found afterwards, buried by a creek
near at hand. Rachel’s lover had already been
arrested on suspicion. It was hinted that he
had grown tired of the girl, and for many
reasons found her hard to shake off. The
woman recognised him in a crowd of other men,
and startled her companions still more by
pointing out another young fellow from the
West as his companion in her dream. The
young man was tried in the town of Washing¬
ton for murder. The dreamer was brought
into court, and an effort was actually made to
put her on the witness stand; but even then
184 THE SPIRITUALIST. April 16. 1880.
men could not be bung on tbe evidence of a
dream. Without it there was not enough
proof for conviction; and the jury, unwillingly
enough, we may be sure, allowed the prisoner
to escape. It was held as positive proof of
his guilt that he immediately married the sister
of the other accused man and removed to Ohio,
then the wilderness of the West.
A PUBLIC ADDRESS ON SPIRITUALISM.
On Sunday, April 4th, at an evening meet¬
ing held at the Steinway Hall, London, in
commemoration of the thirty-second anniver¬
sary of the advent of modern Spiritualism,
Mrs. Fletcher, who addressed those assembled,
in the course of her remarks said : A year ago
there was less encouragement for Spiritualism;
it was then a year weaker, and i'reethought in
this country was a year younger. In its early
days too it had more to fear from its friends
than from its foes; it was bom among tbe
unlettered and the enthusiastic. Why, it
might be asked, did not spiritual manifesta¬
tions first come in some noble cathedral, led by
a great high priest ? But God knew how to
do His work, His way was best, so Spiritualism
was born, so to speak, in a manger, but month
after month, and year after year, mediums
sprang up like wildfire, until Spiritualism had
established itself in every civilized nation on
the globe. But Spiritualism itself was not
new; the Bible was full of it from beginning to
end. Had they ever thought how nearly the
whole of the spiritual phenomena of modern
times were described in the New Testament ?
What a grand exemplification was given in the
account of the release of Peter from prison!
An angel appeared to Peter and unlocked the
heavy iron gates, so the materialising power
must have been great; and the circum¬
stance that the soldiers were thrown into
a deep sleep, indicated the presence of
strong mesmeric influence. The prison was
flooded with a great light. When the freed
Peter knocked that night upon the outer gate
of his own home, little Rhoda thought that it
was a spirit, so familiar did the family appear
to be with spiritual phenomena. As to writing-
mediumship, did they not remember the angel
hand which wrote upon the wall “ Merie, Jfene,
Tekel Uphar&in” and why should not God at
the present time be able to sendanother message,
to tell the people once more that they have
been weighed in the balance and found want¬
ing? Objectors allege that false and lying
spirits come to Spiritualists. Not always, and
did they not remember how in the Old Testa-
bj ment it was recorded that the Lord once put a
Rj lying spirit into the mouths of his prophets ?
k| Another objection was that the modern mani-
|>j festations were ridiculous. They should re-
m member that Ezekiel was taken up by the hair
| | of his head, and carried first to Jerusalem, and
Kj afterwards to another place, yet to-day people
i) j ridiculed the idea of anybody being carried even
>1 two miles by spirit power. If God sends evil
! spirits to the world now, He sends them as He
Kj sends evil men, He sends them as He sends His
? poor and His afflicted that we may do good to
j them, butnot be harmed by them. It was a good
Kj sign that Spiritualists were working among all
? | who were seeking for beneficial social reforms; it
j;j was to be found among those who were asking
m for a creed which is sexless, for God knows
Kj neither sex nor creed. Spiritualism visited
Kj the bedsides of the sick; Christ said that one
> sign he would give to his true followers, they
jSj should lay hands upon the sick and they would
j recover. Spiritualism said to the sick “ Take
i more prayers and fewer pills; ” to criminals
it said “ You are God’s sin-sick ignorant
nj children, and you must learn; ” it was
j<j philanthropic and philosophical as well as
j phenomenal. To her it was the truest,
j>j divinest, sweetest revelation on the face of
| the earth. Yet it was subjected to persecution.
Kj To disbelievers its facts were spurious and
? its mediums vagabonds. Only last Friday,
;i one of our mediums has been sentenced to
m three months’ hard labour by Keighley
| justices, under an old law which should have
been obsolete a hundred years ago. 'It matters
; not who the young man is, nor what is his
Kj name. It is enough to know that ho stands
jo in a gaol to-night j and that our mediums are
| called vagabonds by the law. Are wo a free
j country ? Is this law of England never going
j to claim its right to religious liberty ? Why
c have we Spiritualists not liberty to worship
0 God according to our conscience ? If we are
j>j vagabonds, then so must Moses have been,
| and the prophets of old, and Peter and Paul
k for exercising their spiritual gifts : and kings
j;| and queens are our aiders and abettors, and
S they also should be called upon to share the
< responsibility. And as you return homo to-
? night and gather those you love around you
>| in your comfortable houses and by your fire-
b| sides, just let a thought and a prayer of yours
Kj go forth to that prison, and that captive within
Kj it, who is there because he has exercised the
j) j gifts that God gave him. And let us feel
|S| that our religion of Spiritualism is worth even
j) I suffering for, for a time, and that God as He
185
April 16, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
gives the increase, as He gives the flower its
colour or its sweetness, and the sun its light
will give unto truth the victory.
— ♦
Cffrmjxrntom
[Great freedom is given to correspondents who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; copies
should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters mhich
are not anonymous.]
THE DEATH OF MR. Q. ANDREWS.
Sir,—All Spiritualists who have for years attended
Mr. Williams’ stances, at 61, Lamb’s Conduit Street,
will sincerely regret to hear of the death of Mr. GK
Andrews, whose untiring devotion to our cause con*
tributed most essentially to the success of those remark¬
able meetings.
Many troubles inevitably borne by him in the face
of the slow progress of the movement and the persecu¬
tion of blind prejudice, endear his memory to all friends,
as a true and faithful advocate of Spiritualism, under
circumstances of great inconvenience and personal
loss.
His passing over relieves him from all his sorrows,
which will now only cause a smile on his lips when
looking back to earth from the shores of Spirit land.
C. Reimers.
Richmond, April 12th, 1880.
THE MATTHEWS CASE.
Sir,—In reference to the remarks in your paper by
a Mr. F. T. Morton respecting the defence of Mr.
Matthews before the Keighley Bench and reflecting on
Spiritualists for not attending and giving evidence, I
have to reply that when Mr. Matthews was in New¬
castle on the Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday previous
to the case being heard, it is within my knowledge that
offers were made to go and give evidence if required,
but Mr. Matthews thought it would not be necessary,
seeing that such evidence would not bear directly on
the cases on which the charges were founded; but he
did ask for general support, and in response to which I
moved the following resolution at a public meeting in
this Society’s Hall, when an audience of from 230 to
250 persons were present; Mr. I. Mould, the President
of the Society was in the chair.
“ That this meeting of the Members and Friends of
the Newcastle Spiritual Evidence Society cordially sym¬
pathizing with our esteemed brother Mr. F. 0. Matthews,
hereby tenders to him their renewed confidence and
assurance of his genuine mediumship for clairvoyance
and other manifestations of spirit power proving the
absolute truth of the possibility of communion with the
spirit world; and we further testify with pleasure our
unabated confidence in his integrity and truthfulness
which we have had numerous opportunities of proving,
as well as his high-soul ed devotion to the principles of
truth and purity, and we at the same time offer to him
our unitea heartfelt sympathies in this his hour of
trial.”
This motion was seconded by Mr. J. Urwin, and
carried unanimously, not a single hand or voice being
raised against it. Am official copy signed by the
chairman and myself, as secretary of the Society, was
sent to Mr. Matthews, to be used in his defence, and
we are unable to ascertain if this was ever laid before
the Bench as evidence of his integrity; in fact from the
entire silence about it, we fear that the solicitor in
charge of the case has not made the use of it we think
he might have done. It is most difficult to learn what
was the line of defence adopted, and we are utterly at
a loss to know why an appeal was not made to a higher
tribunal. It is, I think, the profession we should
educate in the matter rather than the magistrates; it
is plain that even in the Slade trial they did not know
how to defend it. It appears to me that mediums are
charged with pretending or professing by subtle craft, &c.,
to deceive and impose. Now, this appears to me to throw
the burden of proof respecting pretending, or pro¬
fessing to deceive or impose, on the prosecution, and I
fail to see that in either case they proved their case, as
they did not attempt to show that they fraudulently
imposed, but proceeded on the assumption that all so
called spirit manifestations are fraud, and they simply
content themselves with producing evidence as to the
manifestations and not as to the impossibility of com¬
munion with the spirit world, and I for one do think
that the solicitors in charge of such cases should be
obliged to demand proof of such before conviction.
With respect to genuine mediums there is no pretension
to deceive; it is conjurors who pretend to deceive.
The Spiritualists in Newcastle and district, I am
sure will gladly do all in their power to second a
combined effort in this matter, only let it be decided
what is the best mode of procedure, and they will
work at it heart and soul, not only to obtain Matthews’
release, but also to petition Parliament for a repeal of
the obnoxious Acts, a course which finds favour here.
On the motion of the President, a subscription was
raised to help supply what might be required for
Matthews’ defence, and in two evenings the sum of
£18 16s. was raised and handed to Mr. Matthews,
and we hope Spiritualists elsewhere will also aid him
by contributing to this necessary fund. H. A. Kersey.
Newcastle-on-Tyne, April 13th, 1880.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE PROVINCES.
Sir,—Spiritualism in the provinces has at least three
strong centres, namely, Newcastle, Glasgow and Cardiff.
At the latter town much quiet work is being done;
the local society of Spiritualists though not large in
numbers, is united and earnest. Several mediums are
under development, and Messrs. Sadler and Spriggs,
as physical and materialising mediums obtain phen¬
omena under good test conditions. A young lady who
has the misfortune to be blind has recently developed
the faculty of psychometry with such success as to
promise remarkable results when she is more fully
developed. Under influence too, she is rapidly be¬
coming a first rate speaker and occupies the platform
at the Sunday services. Messrs. Morse, Walker and
myself have visited the town with good results, and
respectful attention is manifested by outsiders, where
a short time since only ridicule and intolerance were
manifested.
An excellent entertainment promoted by the Man¬
chester Association of Spiritualists, on Good Friday,
would have given a stranger a tolerably correct im¬
pression as to the influence of Spiritualism in that
town. About 200 friends partook of tea, and many
more came to the entertainment. I heard it remarked,
“ You Spiritualists certainly know how to enjoy your¬
selves,” and the chairman in opening the proceedings
struck the key-note by declaring that it was hoped
and intended the evening should be one of enjoyment
and happiness. Excellent singing by the choir,
together with solos and recitations, occupied the first
two hours, followed by a comedy, which was very well
rendered by members of the society under the direction
of Miss Fox, and gave great satisfaction. Subsequently
dancing and other amusements were carried on till a
late hour.
186
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 16, 1880.
The West of England is far behind the times in
matters spiritual. A recent attempt to advocate the K
new truth in Cornwall brought forth rancourous
opposition. The Wesleys, George Fox and others, k
met with the severest persecution in that district, and i S
true to old traditions the people shut their eyes and j
stop their ears and cry ‘•devil” “humbug” “away j
with him;” but the day will yet come when the facts of
Spiritualism will be fully accepted even in such j
benighted regions.
Nottingham has at length a free platform and a j
strong society of Spiritualists. Regular Sunday services ;<
are held with good success. Spiritualism is ably ad¬
vocated and very fair reports of proceedings are given in
local papers, gentlemen connected with the press being j
in full sympathy with the efforts made. Many |
adherents have been gained, and there is every prospect i
of continued success. E. W. Wallis.
SPIRITUALISM IN MANCHESTER.
Sir,—I hand you a report of the half-yearly meeting
of the Manchester Association of Spiritualists, held last
Sunday, April 4th, after the usual meeting, at which
there were present a fair representation of members.
After the usual preliminaries, the following balance
sheet was presented :—
Receipts—Balance last year, £7 2s. 3$d.; Sub¬
scriptions, £8 Is.; Collections, £13 14s. 5d.; Sale of
Books, 6s. 2d.; Profit on Tea Meeting, 6s. 2d.; Seance
room box, 15s. 7£d.; Harmonium fund, per Miss B.,
£2 ; Lancashire Committee for Rent, 5s.; Balance de¬
ficit, 3s. 7|d.; Total, £32 14s. 3£d.
Expenditure—Rent of rooms, £8 10s. 6d.; Speakers,
and Mediums, £12 10s. 6d.; Advertisements, £4 8s. 9d.;
Pioneers for distribution, 12s.; New Books, £2 6s. 5d ;
Organist, £2; Placards, 17s. 6d.; Sundries, 12s. Id.;
Deficit, 3s. 7£d.; Balance in hand, 12s. lid.; Total,
£32 14s. 3£d.
The following are the names of the Officers and
Committee appointed for the next six months:—
President, Mr. Richard Fitton, Vice-President Miss
Blundell, Treasurer, Mr. Allan Hall, Secretary, Mr. Cross,
Librarian, Master T. Emery. Committee : Ladies—Mrs.
Chirwell, Mrs. Emery, Mrs. Braham, Miss H. Blundell,
Miss Johnson and Miss Goodall. Gentlemen—Messrs.
Chirwell, Ainsworth, Elliott, Goodall, W. Shaw,
Braham and Booth.
I have much pleasure in stating that our Association
is in a healthy state, our meetings well attended, our
platform well supplied, the books in the library well
thumbed, and we can find room for more volumes,
which will be forthcoming when our fund will admit of
more being purchased. Your kind insertion in the next
issue of the Spiritualist will oblige, yours truly,
R. Fitton.
44, Walnut Street, Manchester, April 10th, 1880.
Next Sunday evening Dr. George Wyld will deliver
a lecture at the Quebec Hall, Great Quebec Street,
Marylebone, on “ The Life of Sister Dora at Walsall
Hospital.”
Mr. W. Eglinton, who writes to us from Vienna, gives
detailed information setting forth that his mediumship
has been the means of making various influential
converts to Spiritualism on the continent.
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze has completed his voyage
round the world, for the purpose of observing spiritual
phenomena among various races, and he arrived safely
at Havre last week. He is now in Paris.
A neatly printed little half-penny periodical called
The Spiritual Pioneer, is published monthly at 63, Man¬
chester Road, Bradford, Yorkshire.
K
|>!
<
|(|
SPIRIT HANDS.
Mr. C. R. Williams, of 6, Field View, London
Fields, writes that at a recent stance at the
foregoing address, “ two lady mediums were
fastened securely with thread in the cabinet a
few evenings ago by two doctors. Two bells
were placed outside, fully six feet away from
the mediums, and visible to the sitters. In
about a minute they were taken up, thrust
through the apertures by hands perfectly
visible, and were carried to and fro inside the
cabinet which extends the width of the room.
Again, a sceptic, with assistance, tied and
sealed them, and hinting that he had given
them their quietus, the bells were placed out¬
side the cabinet. No sooner were they put
down than one was thrust out of each of the
apertures of the cabinet, which are about six
feet apart. The hands and arms carrying tho
bells were plainly visible to the elbow.
 ♦
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF MR. EDISON.
The Revd. A. L. Hatch, Congregational
minister, of 59, Liberty Street, New York,
made the following statement for publication
to the commissioner of the New York World;
it was published in that journal on the 17th of
March last, of which number Mr. Martheze has
sent us a copy:—
“ You know he [Mr. Edison] is a medium,
and his great invention of the quadruplex tele¬
graph instrument was revealed to him in a
trance state. He sat one day, and passing
into that condition seized some paper lying
before him and wrote until he had filled several
sheets with closely-written notes. Then
waking up and rubbing his eyes, he said he
thought he had been asleep, until his attention
was called to the paper, which he had not read
through before he broke out with his usual
expletives and said he had got the idea he had
been struggling for so long.”
PSYCHOGRAPHY.
The following is the official report describing
some recent experiments in psychography, at
the house of Mr. Epes Sargent, the American
author:—
At the house of Epes Sargent, on the
evening of Saturday March 13th, the under¬
signed saw two clean slates placed face to
face with a bit of slate pencil between them.
We all held our hands clasped around the
edges of the two slates. Mr. Watkins’s hands
also clasped the slates. In this position we
all distinctly heard the pencil moving, and on
April 16, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
187
opening the slates found an intelligent mes¬
sage in a strong masculine hand, in answer to
a question asked by one of the company.
Afterwards, two slates were clamped to¬
gether with strong brass fixtures and held at
arm’s length by Mr. Cook, whilst the rest of
the company and the psychic had their hands
in full view on the table. After a moment of
waiting, the slates were opened, and a mes¬
sage in a feminine hand was found on one of
the inner surfaces. There were five lighted
gas burners in the room at the time.
We cannot apply to these facts any theory
of fraud, and we do not see how the writing
can be explained unless matter, in the slate
pencil, was moved without contact.
F. E. Bundy, M.D.
Epes Sargent.
John C. Kinney.
Henry G. White.
Joseph Cook.
Boston, March 1880.
The original of the above report is in Mr.
Cook’s possession, and Mr. Joseph Cook
states:—
The writing found on the slates when they
were opened was in response to my question,
and was as follows : u I think in 1812, but
am not sure. Warner Cook.” This date was
correct. The doubt expressed in the reply did
not exist in my own thoughts, for I knew
what the date was. During the writing I was
not thinking of the date, however, but very
cautiously watching the psychic to detect
fraud.
In the second experiment the psychic closed
the slates in our sight after they had been
washed with a wet sponge and heavily rubbed
by a handkerchief in presence of us all, as
they lay on the table. After they had been
shut upon the pencil, the psychic, at my
request, placed on them two strong brass
clamps, one at each end. Thus arranged, the
slates were placed by him in my right hand,
which 1 extended at arm’s length over the
back of my chair into the open space of the
room, while I left my other hand on the table.
The psychic, twice or three times, turned the
clamped slates over in my hand, and then
returned his hands to the table, where, with
the rest of the hands of the company, they
were kept constantly in sight. In this position,
I held the slates a few seconds, and watched
both them and the psychic. He appeared to
be making no particular effort of will. When
R| the slates were opened, these words were found
!?! written on one of their surfaces in a feminine
>1 hand : a God bless you all. I am here. Your
|sj loving friend, Fanny Conant.” I have
c never heard of this person ; but the name was
> recognised by several in the company as that
|sl of a psychic now deceased, and lately well
<| known in Boston.
One of the observers who assisted in the
|>| experiments at my request was my family
S physician, Dr. F. E. Bundy, of Boston, a
graduate of the Harvard Medical School—a
f | man of great coolness and penetration of judg-
m ment, and by no means inclined to adopt any
|)| spiritualistic theory. Another of the observers
<1 was Mr. Epes Sargent, who is known to .the
Ki whole English-speaking world for the volumes
> which contain the results of the many years he
m has devoted to the study of psychical phe-
! I nomena. Another observer was an editor who
j?| has assisted in several important exposures of
>1 fraud on the part of psychics. One of the
SI three ladies present had herself performed
Is I psychical experiments for Mrs. Stowe, and
id had also exposed psychical frauds. Of the
j)| nine observers, a majority were not only not
b| Spiritualists, but thoroughly prejudiced against
j< the claims made in behalf of the psychic who
? led the experiments. Written notes of the
|)j facts, as they occurred, were taken by Dr.
Si Bundy and myself.
Among the names correctly read in a closed
|<; pellet was that of an officer in the regular
> army, shot dead in one of the preliminary
I skirmishes of the battle of the Wilderness.
|<| The instant the psychic pronounced the officer’s
< name the former fell backward with a quick,
i>| sudden motion, like that of one shot through
the heart. After a few seconds, the psychic
| wrote the word a shot ’’ in large letters on
|?| the slate.
The hands of the company were so placed
I on the slates in the first experiment that the
K theory of fraud by the use of a magnetic
;S| pencil is inapplicable to the facts. One of the
I I observers held an open hand tightly against
i>l the bottom and another on the top of the slate,
1| and any magnet concealed in the sleeves of
| the psychic could not have been so used as to
| move the pencil.
At the close of the experiments the com-
I pany unanimously indorsed a paper drawn up
|> on the spot—and were agreed that the theory
> of fraud would not explain the facts. While
| | they differed in opinion as to whether the
K slate pencil was moved by the will of the
kI psychic or by that of a spirit or spirits acting
188
April 16, 1880
T^e SPIRI
through him, the observers could not explain |>j
the writing except hy the movement of matter oj
without contact.
SIR WALTER SCOTT AND THE
“ SUPERNATURAL.”
BY J. A. CAMPBELL, B.A. (CANTAB.)
The real attitude of Sir Walter Scott’s mind i
towards what are ordinarily called supernatural ;
events, such as the re-appearance of the de- I
parted and the possession by mankind of ah- j
normal powers of vision, has been a subject |
much discussed; that stories of this character |
had for him a strong fascination is perfectly i
evident to all readers of his works. In his j
novels they abound: the bodach glas in Waverlcy
and the White Lady of Avenal in The Mon- kj
astery, are instances which will at once occur
to mind. The great poem of The Lay of the Last
Minstrel, and many of the shorter poems are
founded on traditions of such things, while the
notes to The Border Minstrelsy and the Letters
on Demonology and Witchcraft are perfect
treasuries of glamour. But, all these afford I
no evidence whatever of his belief in the I
possibility of the actual occurrence of any of j
the mysterious things which he knows so well j
how to describe: rather would the inference !
lie in the opposite direction.
He is almost eager, after telling a story of |
the sort, to disclaim any kind of sympathy j
with the credulity which could gravely accept j
it in its simplicity; he seeks about for an ex- i
planation that will show the supposed ghost ;
to have been the result of clever trickery on
the part of others, as in Woodstock ; or mere |
mental impression on the part of the seer
himself, as in the remarkable instance of Mr. ;
Rutherford’s dream, related in one of the !
notes appended to early editions * of The Anti- \
quary. The story is briefly this:—Mr. Ruther- i
ford, of Rowlands, in the Yale of Gala, was at
one time in extreme difficulty on account of |
the loss of some law papers which he believed I
to have been in his father’s possession. In j>
his sleep, his father, who had been long dead,
appeared to him, told him that the missing |
papers were in the hands of a certain lawyer, k]
who had then retired from business, and was
living in the country; giving his name and K|
address, and adding that should the circum- kj
stance of their deposit with him have been !?
forgotten by the old gentleman, it would ol
* The old well bound Edinburgh editions of BaUantjne, who jSj
wore Montrose’s buttons, and rode Old Mortality. For all I know >
the new cheap ones that make the eyes water and tear to pieces j) j
in the hand, may contain it also. ) ]
T U A L I S T.
probably be recalled on the mention of a piece
of Portugese money, about the changing of
which there had been some small trouble.
Upon enquiry being made, it turned out that
in every particular this information was
correct. Sir Walter’s explanation is very
characteristic : u That the dream was only
the recapitulation of information which Mr.
Rutherford had really received from his father
while in life, but which at first, he merely re¬
called as a general impression that the claim
was settled.”
It may be added that Mr. Rutherford him¬
self firmly believed in the actuality of his
vision, and as Dale Owen remarks when tell¬
ing the story in his Footfalls on the Boundary
of Another World, * 11 unless we assume it as a
point settled, that there is no such thing as
ultra-mundane communication, the simple and
natural conclusion in such a case surely is,
that the father really appeared in a dream to
the son.” How otherwise can the prophecy
or suggestion of the old lawyer’s probable
forgetfulness be explained; and a priori, from
my acquaintance with Scottish character in
general, I think it exceedingly unlikely that
a pecuniary transaction, j* especially one in
which he was personally so nearly concerned,
would ever be forgotten by a Scotchman. It
seemed however, after careful study of
his writings, only just to conclude that Sir
Walter’s name could not be added to the list of
those teachers who have found impressed—how
they could not tell, upon their deepest conscious¬
ness the infinite possibilities of the unseen, and,
not without pain, to acknowledge frankly to
oneself, that this gentlest and most just of
men in our own or any age, from whom of
all others we should have looked for a simple
faith in the promised ministries of heaven
and forewarned assaults of hell, was sceptical
in the extreme as to the possibility of “ the
laws of nature being suspended ” by any ex¬
ternal manifestations of their power.
What was my pleasure then, when looking
over the old numbers of TaiVs Edinburgh Mag¬
azine for the years 1843 to 1844, to discover
* London edition. Triibnor, February, 1861.
f Not that I for a moment give in my adherence to the vulgar
prejudice about Scotchmen 'which imagines them more grasping
than other folk; more careful and more prudent they certainly
are, but then prudence was of old time reckoned a cardinal virtue,
and remains so still, in spite of the boastful wasting of ill-gotten
money in selfish luxury and cruel sensuality, which damns into
yet blacker hell the robbers of the poor in France. England and
Italy. A thief is a thief all the world over, but the Scottish thief
differs from others, in that he is inclined to store up the reward of
iniquity, letting a little leak out occasionally to a Soup Kitchen or
a Missionary Society, whereas the others periodically disgorge
theirs, creating miasma and foul pestilence everywhere.
April 16, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
189
evidence of an unmistakable kind, which, to
my mind entirely contradicts this view. The
evidence I speak of is contained in a series of
papers written by one John Morrison, a per¬
sonal friend of Scott.*
Let the reader judge of its value after he
has read what I have to say.
In Lockhart’s life there is a well-known
story about the knockings that disturbed the
rest of Sir Walter and his wife during the
building of the new house at Abbotsford.
For purposes which will presently appear, I
now extract this account, and place it side by
side with Mr. Morrison’s record of the same
circumstance related to him by Scott.
We will begin with the life. Scott, under
date of April 30th, 1818, writes thus to
Daniel Terry :
“ The exposed state of my house')* has led to
mysterious disturbance. The night before last
we were awakened by a violent noise, like
drawing heavy boards along the new part of
the house. I fancied something had fallen,
and thought no more about it. This was
about two in the morning. Last night, at the
same witching hour, the very same noise
occurred. Mrs. S., as you know, is rather
timbersome ; so I got up with Beardie’s broad
sword under my arm.
“ Bolt upright,
And ready to fight.”
“ But nothing was out of order, neither can I
discover what occasioned the disturbance.”
“ On the morning that Mr. Terry received the
foregoing letter, in London, Mr. William
Erskine was breakfasting with him, and the
chief subject of their conversation was the
sudden death of George Bullock,{ which had
occurred on the same night, and as nearly as
they could ascertain, at the very hour when
Sir Walter was aroused from his sleep by the
mysterious disturbance here described. This
coincidence, when Scott received Erskine’s
minute detail of what had happened in Tenter-
don Street, made a much stronger impression
on his mind than might bo gathered from the
tone of an ensuing communication.” (Also to
Mr. Terry).
* “ Reminiscences of Sir Walter Scott ” by John Morrison.
?<»<’« Magazine for 1843; pp. 609, 626, 780.
tWhile the new house was being built, Scott and his wife slept
in the old part adjoining it.
1 George Bullock made the oast of heads from Melrose for the
ceiling of the new dining room, where they look ill-shaped and
ugly at a distance of sixteen feet from the eye, instead of sixty,
which is more nearly their distance, on the string courses of the
grand old abbey. He had at this time gone to London on busi¬
ness, and was expected shortly to return to Abbotsford.
11 Were you not struck with the fantastical
s coincidence of our nocturnal disturbances at
c Abbotsford, with the melancholy event that
>| followed ? I protest to you the noise resembled
I half a dozen men hard at work, putting up
Kj boards and furniture, and nothing can be more
<| certain than that there was nobody on the
| premises at the time. With a few additional
>| touches the story would figure in Glanvil’s or
Aubrey’s collection. In the meantime, you
^ | may set it down with poor Dubisson’s warnings,
j as a remarkable coincidence coming under your
; own observation.”
This is what Scott told Morrison at his own
[breakfast table:—
“ My wife,” saidhe,<£ awakened me atmidnight,
and declared that Mr. Bullock must be returned
from London, c for I hear him knocking in the
dining room.’ I prevailed on her to fall asleep,
i for it must be all nonsense; but she again
/] awakened and assured me that she not only
heard his hammer knocking in the usual way,
I but heard him speak also. In order to satisfy
her I arose and examined the premises, but
nothing was either to be seen or heard. On
the second day after, a letter sealed with black
arrived, stating that poor Bullock was dead—
mentioning the hour, which exactly agreed
with the time he was heard in the dining
room by my wife. I have heard (he adds)
R other editions of this tale; but what I have
k stated, I heard Sir Walter relate.”
We have here then two versions, each
I) from Scott himself, of the same story,
Kj varying remarkably in detail. To his old
Kj literary friend he says that he and his wife
j>j were both awakened by a violent noise, he
\)\ comments on the fantastical coincidence, and
Kj speaks of the few additional touches the story
jd would require to fit it for insertion in two
R celebrated collections of ghost lore. Bearing
j)l in mind the much stronger impression that
Kj Lockhart tells us was really made upon his
k! mind, we turn to the conversation with Mr.
kj Morrison to find the few additional touches
j)j supplied by his own hand. But first of all it
js| will be necessary to understand what manner
Kj of man was Morrison. At the time of this con-
| j versation he had only lately become acquainted
j>j with Scott, their congenial tastes soon made
| them fast friends, and a mutual love of legends,
i| antiquities, border ballads, and folk lore, led
!j| to those lone and delightful conversations
Ij which the Reminiscences describe — Artist,
land surveyor, kindly and honorable gentle-
j man, too, as we learn from the playful
| epitaph made upon him while he was still
190
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 16, 1880.
Hying, by the Ettrick Shepherd, and not less bj
from the modest and simple style of his writ- is!
ing, he was a person after Scott’s own k|
heart. From time to time he drew for him j>|
sketches of the Border Castles, Thraeve, the K!
home of the Douglases, and Smailholm Tower, Kj
and made a plan of Abbotsford, taking all j)l
the favourite places, Sir Walter writing in the bj
names himself. On the occasion of their first Kj
meeting the subject of second sight seems to j(j
have been introduced.
“ Mr. Scott told some remarkable instances, j>j
one of which I afterwards recognized in Kj
the Grey Spectre of Waverley. Have you Kj
any ghosts in Galloway? We have many, |?|
‘ Mary’s Dream,’ for instance, which is a true j)j
tale, and was told in my hearing, by Mary’s !<|
sister.
u Sandy had just sailed on a voyage, Mary j>j
had laid down to sleep; the rising moon was Kj
shining in at the window, when Sandy came and Kj
sat down with a soss on a chair at her bed-side. j<j
‘Dear Sandy,’ said Mary, ‘your clothes are all j)j
wet! ’ The spirit addressed her nearly in the j>j
words of the song. The lady used to say the |s|
song was improperly called a dream,—it was ja
a reality.”
We wiU now go back and note the particulars Kj
in Mr. Morrison’s account.
Here there is no mention whatever of the }?j
violent noise, and Scott does not say that he bj
heard anything himself, but on the other Kj
hand he does say that both the sounds of !<j
Bullock;s peculiar knocking, and also his |?|
voice were heard by his wife. He attempts |)|
no explanation, gives no hint of any doubt as |!|
to the actuaHty of the occurrence after the j<j
black-sealed letter had arrived, though he !?|
allows it to be inferred that at the time he b|
was inclined to believe the sounds to exist jsj
only in the imagination of his wife.
Can two such different accounts be re- j>|
conciled ? I believe they can, and that the clue j>j
lies in the character of the friends to whom |s|
they were given.
Terry, the London litterateur, living in the j)|
midst of a society where beHef in supernatural b
interposition would have been considered a ls|
mark of ignorance, if not a proof of imbeciHty, a
could hardly be expected to cherish in the j>|
matter very different convictions from those jS|
around him. Scott, with the impression made |<j
by the disturbance fresh in his mind, writes of j?|
it to Terry. The latter breakfasting with bj
Erskine, receives news of Bullock’s sudden \y>
death on the same night. Erskine writes to Kr
Scott, and mentions this circumstance. Can |g
anything be more natural than thathe should re¬
ply, passing the whole thing off as a fantastical
coincidence ? Morrison, the Galloway artist,
bred up in the country with a strong vein of
mysticism running through his thought, in¬
terested in every kind of legend that connected
him with the past, a beHever in the pos¬
sibility of communication with the unseen
world, perfectly understood and sympathised
with by Scott, but still a comparative stranger
to him, he tells him only a portion of the
truth—a far more important portion of it than
he had told Terry—but does not commit him¬
self in the matter, and leaves Morrison to form
his own conclusions. Taking this view of the
question, it seems probable that a closer in¬
timacy between them would have led to a yet
more clear statement of Scott’s real opinions.
Such, I hope shortly to lay before my readers.
A PROBLEM.
Stone throwing by spirits is so common that
Mr. William Howitt once wrote a bookful of
authenticated instances, since which several
new cases have occurred. At Cooks town, near
Belfast, for instance, as recorded in the Daily
Telegraph (London) and in The Belfast News
Letter at the time, stones fell wholesale under
the eyes of the police, and no trickery could be
detected. A boy seemed to be the centre of
the forces, and sometimes his clothes were cut
into shreds in an instant under the eyes of the
observers. At Beckham another case, a few
years ago, baffled the police hour after hour
in broad daylight, to the utter disgust of
Scotland Yard; so some weeks later, when
a man from there found a boy playing
with a little stone-throwing toy some miles
from Beckham, it was assumed to explain
the whole matter. In the following unplea¬
sant case, from Saturday’s Evening Standard,
it is a proper matter for inquiry among compe¬
tent and well-informed people, whether the
house in which previous annoyances had oc¬
curred is haunted, or whether the servant is
one of those unfortunate people in whose
vicinity very low manifestations take place.
Among those competent to sift the case, these
points are quite as open for examination as
that of trickery :—
On Saturday, at the Lambeth Police-court, Sarah
Ann Frances, 18 years of age, a servant, was charged
with wilfully doing damage to a door at the residence
of her mistress, Mrs. Augusta Howard, residing in
Cerise-road, Hanover Park, Peckham. The Prisoner
had been in the service of the prosecutrix, a lady over
80 years of age, some eight months. Within a few
days after she had entered the service a deal of annoy-
Apjliil 16, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
191
ance was caused by filth of all descriptions being thrown j
at the doors and windows in front of the house. To |j
such an extent did the nuisance proceed that the police i<
were communicated with, but until Eriday morning K
the secret of the matter was not discovered.—Inspector j)
Rutter, of the P Divison, remained in ambush near the j<
house of the Prosecutrix from three to about six o’clock I)
on Saturday morning. The Inspector saw the Prisoner, j <
shortly before six o’clock open the front door, and after is
looking round do something to the door. He then !(
went over and found the door smothered with filth. j<
Upon seeing the prisoner she declared she had not put jS
the filth there, but the Inspector was satisfied no one i)
else had been near the door from the time he had first i<
commenced his watch. It was further stated that in n
consequence of the Prisoner having the unpleasant duty I <
so frequently of clearing away the filth from the doors ; (
and windows her mistress had raised her wages. The i
Prisoner kept a kind of diary as to the number of times j<
the nuisance took place, and this she showed to her h
mistress frequently. The mistress also stated that she j;
had great faith in the Prisoner, and on Sunday night i l
the Prisoner expressed much sympathy for her, and h
expressed her opinion that some evil spirits must be in ii
the house or neighbourhood. The Inspector stated
that a former servant at the house was a short time 1)
back convicted at this Court for destroying windows at !<
a house where she was employed. For a long time in p
that instance the offender managed to elude conviction. j<
—Mr. Chance said he remembered that case, and this <
was even worse. No doubt the Prisoner’s object was to
work upon the feelings of her mistress so as to get a ;<
still further rise of wages or reward.—The Prisoner <
now denied the charge, but Mr. Chance said he should i>
remand her in order to ascertain something more of <
her character.
In defending attacks upon mediums, only solicitors <
and counsel who are publicly avowed Spiritualists K
should be engaged, in order that the movement may be j)
well represented.
“Passed to the higher life,” on Monday, April 5th, K
Florence Louisa, beloved child of Frederick Arthur D
Nosworthy, and E. Louisa Thompson Nosworthy, and i<
granddaughter of the late Mr. George Thompson, M.P.
Mr. 0. R. Williams, mesmerist, of 6, Field View, j)
London-fields, informs us that several good mesmeric i<
sensitives are among the frequenters of the spiritualistic j;
meetings at the foregoing address.
At the Council Meeting of the National Association of j
Spiritualists last Tuesday, it was resolved to, next !/
month, recommend the reduction of the number of j
members of the Council to thirty-six, and to have a j)
general election of the whole of the managers. The j)
case of Mr. F. 0. Matthews, also of other mediums K
endangered by the state of the law, was referred to the |;
consideration of the General Purposes Committee, k
Mrs. Maltby gave notice that she would quit her K
occupancy of some of the rooms of the Association on i /
the 12th of July next.
Death under the Influence of an Anaesthetic.— K
Yesterday, at Southampton, an inquest was held on the i)
body of Herbert Greenwood, a resident of Lymington, <
aged 36. The deceased came to Southampton on 1)
Monday , with his own medical attendant, to undergo | ?
a dental operation. Having been examined and pro- K
nounced a fit subj ect for the administration of chloroform, j)
he was put uader the influence of the anaesthetic, and j<
two teeth had been drawn when it was found that he had b
ceased to breathe. All efforts to restore respiration by j)
artificial means were fruitless. A verdict absolving the K
medical man and dentist from all blame was returned. I)
“ The Echo,” April lAth, 1680. U
Mr. Dale writes to us that to-night at 6.30, at a
meeting of the Marylebone Society of Spiritualists,
Quebec Hall, Great Quebec Street, some healing
mediums will probably be in attendance.
Colonel W. Gordon and Mrs. Gordon in speaking
out publicly in The Pioneer newspaper, of Allahabad,
have given a great impetus to Spiritualism in India.
Previously the movement had taken deep root in the
best society there, but Mrs. Gordon’s letter published
in non-anonymous form, has encouraged numbers of
quiet friends of the movement to be less reticent.
In reference to the fact of dilatoriness in sending
information to us about Mr. Matthews having been
arrested in Keighley, until it was too late for any of our
readers to act upon the news, Mr. Morrell of Keighley
writes—“ There was little time to prepare any defence,
as he returned here the evening before the day of trial.”
Meanwhile he was more than a week in Newcastle.
The Defence of Mr. Matthews.—Mr. Morrell, of
Keighley, has forwarded us The Keighley News of
April 3rd, containing the following paragraph at the
end of a report relating to the defence of Mr. Matthews
before the three justices, Mr. J. Craven, Mr. W.
Haggas, and Mr. J. Clough. The local superintendant
of police, it will be seen, was a very active mover in the
matter. Mr. James Sharphouse, tailor, having ‘given
his testimony, he was “cross-examined by Mr. Neill,
who appeared for the defence: He did not believe in
Spiritualism, and had gone to the seance only to expose
the trickery and nonsense of such proceedings. He had
told Mr. Sargeson that his wife had had, and was
going to have, an interview with a medium, but Mr.
Sargeson made no demur. He believed that Mrs.
Sargeson was compos mentis.—Mr. Neill here suggested
that if his client agreed not to trouble this neighbour¬
hood again with his Spiritualism, the magistrate
should inflict a fine upon the defendant, and the case
should not be gone into farther. The suggestion,
however, was -not accepted, and the case was proceeded
with.—Mrs. Sharphouse, wife of the former witness,
gave corroborative evidence, and said that Matthews
told her that she had fifteen years ago adopted a pretty
blue eyed girl of whom she was very fond. This how¬
ever, was not the case.—Cross-examined by Mr. Neill:
She did not believe in Spiritualism.—Mr. Neill urged
in defence that his client had not committed an offence
under the 4th Section of the Vagrancy Act of George
IV., which required that someone should have been
deceived before a conviction could be granted. His
client had neither deceived nor injured anyone, and
Mr. Sharphouse had had a good joke for his 5s. He
thought that instead of allowing Mrs. Sargeson to go
and hear a lot of “ twaddle ” Mr. Sharphouse ought to
have informed her of the folly of doing so, and have
tried to prevent her. He believed that the witness had
paid the money merely to press the case against the
defendant.—'After a short consultation, the magistrates
said they thought they would not be fulfilling their
duty did they not send the defendant to prison, and
with regard to Mr. Sharphouse, they were of opinion
that he had done quite right in acting as he did. The
Bench then announced their decision to commit
Matthews to prison for three months, that period being
the longest they could give for one offence.—Mr. Neill
then stated that his client had instructed him that he
would appeal against the decision.—On this, Supt.
Ireland said that he would strengthen his position by
going on with the second charge.—After some dis¬
cussion defendant agreed to take no farther steps in
the matter, and the second charge was adjourned for
a fortnight, when it will be withdrawn if no appeal is
made against the decision of the Bench.”
192
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 16, 1880.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB |)
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
b9 the late Wm/Qhkgoey, M.D., F. ll.S.E., Prqfetaor qf Chemistry at Edinburgh : \ i
University. i (j
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll. i) I
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size ! S!
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with j S;
Spiritualism. K:
(
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free. jc i
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process -cl
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon- j / j
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness i) j
—Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in jsi
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture— Ki
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti- if j
biUty—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards i( j
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions— IS j
Danger of Rash Experunents—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage— j v |
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical j (!
Intuition— Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of | (!
a Peculiar' Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes — ;S|
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and j S |
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retro vision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, 4c., Predicted—Pre- j ( !
diction of Changes in the Health<or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents ; (j
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of IP;
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of I);
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and i S j
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious i (j
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method KI
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator— jr i
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental j Mesmeric—Trance Pro- ; (I
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not I v I
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s I (i
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VTII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions— |S|
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do IS!
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible ot Mesmerism I (I
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele- 1(1
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &o., on the Human Frame— j) |
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of j) I
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylio I) I
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water ISI
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—Physiological, Therapeutical, Ac.— i (I
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes- Ki
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking Kj
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested I; I
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the IS j
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the I \ I
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought- i( j
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylie Emanations—Odylio Traces followed up by Kj
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c., ; ? |
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the ]) |
Future.
CHAPTER XIInterest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits j SI
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments— | (|
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student— Kj
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State— I) I
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi- i; I
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments— IS I
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen- j S |
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Oases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking | \;
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian j (I
Magic. Ici
CHAPTER XHI:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of 1)1
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep— ISI
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep IS I
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep— (|
Oases—Perception of Time—Cases : Sir J. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of l(j
Retrovision. I (I
CHAPTER XIV:—^Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance— j):
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases— i) I
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases. | S;
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe- ! (j
nomena—Apparili(ms—Predictions. 111
! (j
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency ot Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks j / i
and Summary. . . \ ( \
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 88, Museum-etmt, London.
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and Anally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zbllner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIROLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sitin subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tUting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean
“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I kspeak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message P ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances because
no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
mesmeric influences.
Mediuraship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week: angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Apeil 16, 1880,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. 'White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pncisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
riALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
t. in Spiritualism, by Christian Eeimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Hill and Carlyle, Moral Carnation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O.,
DESEARCHES IN THE PHENO-
JLL MENA OF SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5a The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st., W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for l£d; or six copies post free for 6d. 
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENGER AND EPJIEMERIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
Raphael’s’’ is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and judge it for vourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12. Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
BBRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIA¬
TION of spiritualists, 88, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances. See., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, doily. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PBARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all mcluded, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ 8. C.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris. 
rpHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
JL oldest j ournal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luthor Colby, editor : aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &o. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.O
Price 3s, 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Postfree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Richmond,
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V, Tappan -Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treheme) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenbofgon Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The L\fe of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia O.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIIIi—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXiX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Colder.
XLI.—Dirge. - By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougal)
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.8.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33
Museum-street, London, W.C,
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts’and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, S3,
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Paht I.
I,—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Pabt II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXL Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
T)EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
_Ll/ psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyms, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. 6d. Post free,
SPIRITUALISM- AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Fabmeb.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modem Thought verses Modem Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V :—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the light of
Modem Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
gj g; Containing instructions
HO W TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepenee,
post free.
These leaflets are specially-suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news-
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to “ drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con¬
sequently irreligious age.
IV
THE SPIKITUALIST,
April 16, 1880,
Accidental Indigestion
Price Rive Shillings. Crown Svo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
CHEISTMAS PUDDING-,
USE
ENO S FRUITSALT
Erery Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health¬
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression,‘Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
END’S ERUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Da. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
Stimulants & insufficient
AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. END’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE END’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ AH our customers for END’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Woos Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Bash of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
END’S FRUIT SALT.
A natural aperient.—
END’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT I!! Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
END’S FRUIT SALT is the bast known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de la Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. He is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
in the house.”—M. Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.— “Aftersuf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Rorert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ CUCOESS IN LIFE.”—Anewin-
kj vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marhed "ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without,you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 2d. and 4s. 6<f.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcham, London, S.E.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Der¬
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12 Our Raven.—18. Materialistic Religion—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “Poor
Old Joe 1 ”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—80. The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says;—‘ ‘Comic
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts nerself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. ... The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. ... Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by Wuliam H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price fid.; post free 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The probable effects of
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association ot
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, w.C.
MIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCItiTY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery -lane.
March, 1880. j [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
The present position and future needs of Spiritualism
in England $ M.A. (Oxon)—Kiddle’s Spiritual Com¬
munications—Exposures of Spiritualism; Dr. Nicholls
—Two Views of Spiritualism; M.A. (Oxon)—A Needed
Lesson; Georgina Houghton—^Extracts from a Spirit¬
ualist’s diary ; A. M. H. Watts—The last Words of
James Nayler, the Quaker Martyr, 1660—Notes and
Gleanings—Lessons in a School of Life—Victorien
Sardon, the French Dramatist—The Message of Spirit,
nalism to the Criminal—Higher Aspects of Spiritual¬
ism—Poetry—A Psalm of the March Winds; J. T.
Karkley.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW: Hay Nisbkt & Co., 52, Ropework-lane
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
BostoNj U.S.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated tixe subject without pre-oonceived ideas,
and the result of his examination nas been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks ana
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We
will only say that ms descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which ms
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
CONTENTS.
Mesmeric Experiments       181
A Dream Revelation    182
A Public Address on Spiritualism    184
Correspondence:—The Death of Mr. G. Andrews 185
The Matthews Case    185
Spiritualism in the Provinces... 185
Spiritualism in 14 anchester  186
Spirit Hands           186
The Mediumship of Mr. Edison    186
Psychography    186
Sir Walter Scott and the Supernatural. By J. A.
Campbell, B.A.       188
A Problem   190
Paragraphs:—Death under the influence of an
Anaesthetic      191
The Defence of Mr. Matthews 191
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury .London, W.C., and published by E, W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
