Rs&istkrbd as a Newspaper,
SK® joU!{K®i< ^^YdSo^o^id®^ ^di^KC'^.
&\}t <$ltet U^tosppr txmnw^ foillj Spinlualism m ^nat §rilam*
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule*
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 284. (Yol. XII.—No. 5.) LONDON: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
More Freedom for Women      49
Reception to Dr. Peebles  ... ... ...   50
Herr Brockmann on Mediums   ... 61
Devotional Spiritualism. By the Rev. 0. Maurice Da¬
vies, D.D   ...  52
Scientific Confirmation of Spiritualism. By Epes Sargent 53
A Seance with Miss K. Cook. By William H. Harrison ... 54
Spontaneous Psychological Phenomena. By Eliza Boucher 54
Space and Time. By Charles Carleton Massey  55
Correspondence:—Mesmerism—What Truth is there in
Astrology ?—Physical Manifestations—A Criticism—Mr.
Morse's Removal to Derby— “ Spiritualism Without
Spirits ”—Spiritual Meetings at the East-end 58
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—
Inquirers’ Seance    60
Answers to Correspondents      60
Paragraphs:—Dr. Slade’s Table, 50 ; Passed to Spirit Life,
50 ; Marriage, 50; Reception at Dr. Wyld’s, 50 ; ’Spirit¬
ualism at Sowerby Bridge, 50 ; Dr. Monck’s Seances ... 60
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHBD IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F- Yarley, C.E., P.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes,' P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;NHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, E.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. RobertWyld; Mr.T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of Sit. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the*’Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.O.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. Wilham Oxley; Miss Kisling*
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ((United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .'Kingdom, 10s. XOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne; 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Keamey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
MESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 31, King-street,
Huddersfield.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS,
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for February, 1878.
Wednesday, 6th.—Reception to Dr. J. M. Peebles, at 38,
Great Russell-street. Chair to be taken
at 8 p.m. Admission to members and
Friends, Is.
Friday, 8th.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
il/bncfay llf/t.—*Foutnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
Tuesday, Vlth.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m,
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m. Special
Council Meeting to follow.
Wednesday,\8th.—Inquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Mr. W.
Eglinton.
Friday, Ihfh.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 20th—Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Inquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Mr. W.
Eglinton.
Friday, 22nd.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Monday, 25f/i.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
♦FORTNIGHTLY MEETINGS.
On Monday, 11th inst., Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., will
read a paper on “ Stigmatisation." Admission free to Mem¬
bers and their Friends.
SEANCES.
Seances for Inquirers are held weekly at 38, Great Russell-
street. , Inquirers may have Tickets free, on application to
the Secretary, with personal recommendations from a Member.
Admission to Members and one Friend, Is. each. Private
Seances for advanced manifestations for Members only, by
special arrangement. Admission 5s. 
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—-6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—  H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec,
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
a RANT’S MORELLA SHERRY BRANDY,
“Queen’s Quality,” as supplied to Her Majesty.
Delicious. Invigorating. A valuable tonic. 42s. per doz., net.
GRANT’S MORELLA SHERRY BRANDY, “ Sportsman’s
Special Quality,” and for Travelling. 50s. per doz., net.
GRANT’S MORELLA SHERRY BRANDY, supplied by all
Wine Merchants, or direct, on prepayment, by T. GRANT,
Distillery, Maidstone, Carriage free in England. Stock in
Bond for Exportation.
ASTROLOGY. “ "Worth its weight in gold.”
Every adult person living should purchase at once
“YOUR FUTURE FORETOLD,” a book of 144 pp., cloth, only
2s. 6d. London: Berger, Newcastle-street, and J. Burns ; or
post-free of E. Casael, High-street, Watford, Herts. Instruc¬
tions to purchasers gratis.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Illustrated with two Portraits. By J. Morse.
Price 2s. From the Author, at Elm Tree Terrace, Uttoxeter.
PADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be’
obtained speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7.30.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London. *
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
  Willesden, N.W. 
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations),
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
 Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
Just published, price 5s., richly gilt,
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism.
CONTENTS. - :~Z
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—" O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Bichmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakoi—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burse—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna (Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D .—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon."
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow's Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
F akirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voics of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F.R.G. S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
 W. H, Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms :—18c, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.;
post free, seven stamps.   
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Ohancery-lane, W.O]
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on applica tion,
FRANCIS gAVENSCROFT, Manager.
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 1, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., C, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W-
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, O. C„ Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildlngs, Temple,
London, E.C. , ''
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, 'W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, tV. N., Eden-villa. Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Blnney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., lateof H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd,”J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 84. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Gosweil-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reiroers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Scrawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawfevidge, Mrs. O. N„ 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granvllle-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
\\ bite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square,'West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss I-L, 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-squaro, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Ills Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potsehach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Ba'ssols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The-Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mine, de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-slreet, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer-
.sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
B. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Diteon.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. GledstaneS:Esq., 33, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M, de Bassompierre, 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre,Etterbeck,Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Kuo du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z-. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary. '
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.’Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Bel'grawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.,E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W. ■
The Sniriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23.
Buda-Pesth, Hungary. -
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T.Biyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, El
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Just published, 2s. paper covers ; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Beothees, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or, the Use "and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Tetjbnee & Co.—VI. Price 12a., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
ASTROLOGY, a popular sketch of Celestial
Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J. Pearce, author
of the Weather Guide - Book, &c. Price Is. London:
Berger, Newcastle-street, Strand. Sent post free by the
author on receipt of twelve penny stamps; address, 3, Oedars-
terrace, Lavender-hill, S.W.
“ This work is the best that has ever been printed to convey
to those unacquainted with Astrology, a plain, simple, and
easily understood idea of what it really is ; and before under¬
taking to learn anything about it by any of my own works, I
advise my readers to obtain and peruse this very excellent
little publication.”—Zadkiee.
N.B.—The author gives private instruction in Astrology.
'O EICHENBACH’S RESEARCHES, by the
JLai late William Gresory, M.D., F.R.S.E. 455 pp.,
demy 8vo. Second-hand, in very good condition. Scarce.
10s. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London. W.C.
Price Sixpence.
THE UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF DR.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
tfc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sar&ent. This boob, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
EAPHAEL’S prophetic messenger,
. ALMANAC and EPHEMERIS for 1878, containing
Predictions of the Weather and Mundane Events, Birthday
Notes, &c., &c. Post free, 7d. ; with Ephemeris, Is. Id.
Haphael's Guide to Astrology, containing rules and infor¬
mation whereby any person may calculate and judge a
nativity. The most original and simple work on Astrology
ever published. Cloth, gilt, 3s. London: J. E. Catty 12
Ave Maria-lane, E.O.  
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free"
for 6d.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible com¬
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.’’—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
  Address as above.
mr. j. wTIfletcher,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, YERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, YERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
SPIRITUAL HEALING OF DISEASE,
BY JAMES REGAN,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, W.O.,
AND
141, CAMBRIDGE STREET, PIMLICO, S.W.
N.B.—Patients desiring personal treatment will please
make appointment by letter, which will receive prompt
attention. Curative appliances sent to those residing at a
distance on application.
MR. w; EGLINTON
Has returned to town, and may be addressed,
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
   S.W. 
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN,
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours,
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes.
MADAME LLANCOR1S,
At home from 11 till 4, for Music, Trance, Clairvoyance, and
Automatic Writing.
25, GUILFORD STREET, RUSSELL SQUARE.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
G engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIYE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Catnpden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired).
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.C.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Maneell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at th eir homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
MRS. WOODFORDE, 90, Great Russell-
Btreet, Bloomsbury, W.C. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, from 12 to
5 p.m. For visits of friendship, from 8 to 10 p.m.
MISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 121, Mary le bone-road, London, N.W.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney
Third Edition. Price 3s.
LONDON:—SlMPKIN, MARSHALL & CO.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price Is.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d„ paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
fubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Jf iA xtf tmh ^pil^$ tl ^jm|tt«nK$m.
VojLUjvtE Twelve, N’umber Five.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1st. 1878.
MOEE FBEEDOM FOE WOMEN.
Slowly and surely Spiritualism is modifying tlie thoughts
and lives of its votaries, and those who are looking only at
the difficulties and confusion of the present, may obtain
some gratification in surveying the past, just as the wearied
toiler upon the mountain-side, is rewarded when he pauses
and looks down upon the multitudes he has left in
the valley, now so far beneath him. Death was once
the King of Terrors in reality, but Spiritualism has
taken from him his sting and snatched the victory from
the Grave. Bodily death is now regarded but as a necessary
and beneficent process, painful for the moment, but a gain
in the end, like the extraction of an aching tooth. And with
the removal of the fear of death, has arisen the desire and
in some cases the practice among Spiritualists, of abolishing
all the gloomy and repellent paraphernalia of ordinary
funerals.
True, Spiritualism has had a deeper influence, in impressing
upon its followers the small value of the material things of
this life, and the depth of the moral and religious accounta¬
bility of every human soul for its thoughts and deeds. But
the accomplished abolition of the fear of death is now men¬
tioned, to encourage those who think that some improvement
ought to be effected in other momentous matters.
Mrs. Lowe, one of the most intelligent members of
the Council of the National Association of Spiritualists, is
now taking an active part in stimulating the Legislature to
legally secure to all women about to be married, the whole
of their property, and the idea is so clearly but the putting
in practice of the commonest conceptions of honesty, that
it is painful to think that it is necessary to say a word on
the subject to any English Government. But if the nation
does not promptly do its duty in this matter, why should not
the principle be recognised and acted upon by Spiritualists,
who might by a lex non scripta resolve that any man who
marries a woman without all her property having been first
legally secured to her, shall be socially excommunicated ?
Various reforms in this direction would put a stop to a mass
of iniquity, and of subsequent misery to individuals, for at
the present time women are driven to the matrimonial market
by their families every London season, just like cattle, and
remorselessly knocked down to the highest bidder. Such is
the case in reality if not in name, and men among themselves
not unfrequently express their disgust at the trade; some
among the higher grades bring their families to town for
the shortest possible period, in order to keep the younger
members free from some of the influences. In many cases the
women deserve no pity, but take as much interest in their
own sale, and force it on from the same motives as their j
families, but now and then one with a soul fitted for better !
things, falls a helpless unwilling victim to the strong social j
forces around.
One step in the right direction would be the carrying j
out of the plan for which Mrs. Lowe and others are I
working, namely, the removal of the commercial element |
in marriages. Another good step would be the bringing j
public opinion to bear upon match-making parents, who j
strive to force their own lines of action upon their children, I
who necessarily differ more or less from their progenitors in j
nature and temperament. The methods by which families j
exercise social tyranny vary infinitely with the circumstances, j
Once upon a time, between John o’Groats and Land’s End, j
it matters not how many years ago, a young man, A, and a I
young woman, B, fell in love, as people sometimes do, and j
Miss B’s family, with all the blood of the X’s in them, were j
virtuously indignant thereat, which also is not uncommon. |
The X’s indignantly told us that they (B excepted) insulted j
and worried A in every possible way, but could not get rid j
of him. The fact was that he estimated all of them at 1
| their true value ; and being assured of B’s good-will, coolly
| and contemptuously took, by way of temporary self-sacrifice,
| the mud-baths given him by the rest of the family. When
j the family bemoaned his hardihood to us, the reply was, in
effect: u Yes, he's an audacious character [this remark gave
| great satisfaction] ; but when you find another suitor after all
| your own hearts [this might have been done in two centuries],
j of course you'll marry him yourselves, for you cannot have any
| right to force your choice upon B.” This caused dissatisfac-
| tion. And the two were married in spite of the family, and
j so long as we knew them, “ were happy ever afterwards,” as
| the story-books say. Another example of successful resist-
i ance to evil conditions occurred in the case of a Spiritualist,
| so well-known that she might possibly be recognised by the
! following description, so we submitted this paragraph for
| her approval before its publication. Her relatives tried to
I force her to marry a man of rank, but she, having a true
| nature, defied them, and married a genial and well-known
| man of science, although the worldly difficulties in the way
were at first considerable. She says : u I never for one
| moment regretted the step. I was true to myself and to
| my highest instincts. Moreover, I gained by it socially, for
| I had a husband of whom I was proud in society, instead of
| a fool of a peer, who would have made me tremble every
| time he opened his mouth to speak.” Cases like these of
i successful resistance to the powers of evil are rare. No
] secret police system by which helpless wretches in despotic
f countries are trodden down, is worse than the rule exercised
! over the majority of women in England, and we should like
I to receive information from all quarters as to the methods by
| which they are kept in subjection, for publication in another
| way. There are instances in which large families of sisters
| are trained up by their parents to act as spies upon each
| other, and to open and read each others’ letters, and if one
j victim so situated chances to have a liking for anybody, the
| abuse and criticism which that unfortunate candidate when
j absent receives in chorus from the sisters less appreciated
! by him, are strong enough to shock the worst sample of a
I Saturday Reviewer. In some families not a daughter can
| leave the house for a ten minutes’ walk on a summer’s day,
| without first making arrangements for some friend to chaperone
I her. There is too much tendency to make light of these
| matters, but how would a man like it if one or two friendly
policemen were always with him from youth to middle age,
i reading all his letters, more or less directly forcing such
I answers to them as they chose, and picking quarrels with
| individuals with whom their helpless charge did not desire
j to disagree? Further, such a system of “nursing” is
I demoralising to the individual, and tends to destroy inde-
| pendence of character.
Then look at the results of the system. In perhaps half
the homes in this country husband and wife are never so
| happy as when they are apart, and in the majority of cases
they make no secret of the existing antipathy. Frequently,
they are entitled to no sympathy, for they, in most instances,
succumbed to the system, and allowed themselves to be
described in the Temple of the Almighty as those whom
“ God had joined together,” when they knew that they were
joined together by the grasping match-making observers in
the rear. The time is not far off, when those who, for
materialistic reasons, foree young people into a career of
life-long unhappiness, will have to lose caste in society.
| More freedom for women is one of the greatest needs of the
| present time, and day by day is receiving more and more
I attention from society and from the Legislature, Spiritual-
| ists would do well to look with kindly eyes upon all
I measures for the alleviation of human unhappiness, and the
| subject of more liberty for women deserves special atten-
i tion.
50
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 1, 1878.
RECEPTION TO DR. PEEBLES.
On Wednesday evening next, 6th inst., the British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists will give a reception to Dr. J. M. Peebles, at 38,
Great Russell-street, London. Dr. Peebles has just returned from two
years’ wanderings round the world, and having given particular atten- i
tion to the state of Spiritualism in India, China, Australia, and New 1
Zealand, will, no doubt, have many interesting facts, as well as new
views, to place before his hearers. Added to the interest which all i
Spiritualists will feel in listening to the discourse of the experienced I
traveller, will be the feeling of appreciation of the moral worth and dis¬
interestedness of which all who have the pleasure of knowing Dr.
Peebles must be keenly sensible, so it is to be hoped that many will
attend to express pleasure and satisfaction at his sojourn, even for a
short time, amongst us. The evening’s proceedings will be opened at
eight o’clock, by the president of the Association, Mr. A. Calder, and
after Dr. Peebles’s address, Mme. Schneegans, the accomplished
singer, and Miss Waite, the elocutionist, have kindly volunteered their i
services.
I i
Alexis Didiee, the celebrated clairvoyant of Dr. Elliotson’s time, 11
is now living in Paris. Does he still retain his power of abnormal I
vision ? . IJ
Me. William White, author of The Life of Swedenborg, is about to I
bring out a quarterly magazine in connection with Spiritualism, i!
entitled, The Psychological Review. I
Next Thursday week Mr. W. H. Harrison will, by invitation, read i j
a paper before the Brixton Psychological Society, 6, Loughborough- I
road North, Brixton, on “ The Relationship between Spiritualism and j j
Modern Culture.”
|
We have received an Italian translation of Mr. Crookes’s Researches ! ]
in the Phenomena of Spiritualism, by Signor A. Pioda, just published j i
at Locarno, in Switzerland. Signor Pioda deserves the thanks of
Spiritualists for his work. ,
Mb. W. J. Colville will deliver his concluding lectures in London j
as follows:—Sunday, Feb. 3rd, Salisbury Hall, 429, Oxford-street, |
11.15 a.m., subject, “Solar Worship and Christianity.” In the same j
place he will speak again at 3.15 p.m.; and will give another address j J
at Ladbroke Hall, Notting-hill, at 7 p.m. On Wednesday, Feb. 6th, 1 j
he will speak at Salisbury Hall, at 8 p.m. He leaves London for New- i
castle on Saturday, Feb. 9 th. j j
De. Slade’s Table.—Dr. Slade’s table, since its removal from Bow- j
street, has been on public view at the rooms of the National Association j
of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, London, where it now has 11
affixed to it a brass-plate, with the following inscription thereon:— j j
“ The Table produced in the case of Regina v. Slade, and sworn to be a M
‘Trick Table’ by one John Nevil Maskelyne, Conjuror, a witness on |
behalf of Professor E. Ray Lankester, F.R.S., before Mr. F. Flowers, 1
Magistrate, at Bow-street Police Court, October, 1876.” i j
The Spiritualist of Dec. 14th last is out of print, and copies of that ! J
number have much increased in value. Not so many copies as last j j
year are now printed weekly for the benefit of irregular subscribers, so | j
those who do not take this journal in regularly, and get it within a few | )
days after publication, run the risk of not being able to obtain the more | j
interesting numbers at all, especially at this season of the year, when j |
the home circulation always rises rapidly. The foreign circulation also j )
grows steadily, and The Spiritualist is becoming an international organ j j
for educated English-speaking Spiritualists all over the globe. j (
Passed to Spibit Life.—Mr. Luther Colby, editor of the Banner of j j
Light, Boston, Massachusetts, sends us the following information:— |
“ Mrs. Hardy, long and favourably known as a medium for the spiritual j
phenomena, died in this city (Boston) at ten o’clock on Monday evening, ]
14th inst., of consumption, at the age of thirty years and eight months. ;
She took a violent cold at the Tabernacle one evening last spring (so her j
husband informs us) where she went to hear Mr. Moody preach, and
from the effects of that exposure she never recovered. She died in the i
full possession of her mental faculties, quite reconciled to death, and
asseverating the truth and genuineness of her mediumship to the last, j
She declared that the manifestation at her sittings for the production of i
moulds in paraffin of hands, which she knew to be temporarily ma- j (
terialised by spirit-power, was a genuine phenomenon. Her maiden i j
name was Mary M. Smith, and she was born at Raymond, N.H., in I j
1847. She early gave evidence of medial powers. When quite a child j (
she would at times perceive a dim, shadowy presence near her, though \ |
she could not fully discern the form. Several times she heard what she j
afterwards knew to be spirit-voices. At the age of sixteen she came to
Boston, and thenceforth her medial reputation has been steadily on the ! y
increase. As a trance-medium she gave many startling tests which !
could be traced only to some supersensual faculty. She visited England j (
in the year 1875, and was recognised there as a remarkable medium, j)
Her troubles did not commence till she began to sit for the physical | (
phenomena. This led to attacks on her good faith, which she bravely j (
combated, but which had an adverse effect, and put her repeatedly on i)
the defensive.. She had a large circle of friends, who fully believed in i (!
her mediumship and her good faith. If testimony to actual phenomena | J j
from hundreds of careful observers may carry weight, then is her 11 !
character fully vindicated, and all the slurs upon her good faith were i (|
necessarily incidental to her public medial vocation, dealing as it did in j} I
wonders which, even when thoroughly attested, few were prepared to i i
believe.” 1'
Me. J. Coates contemplates coming to London soon, for a short
time, to give some public experimental lectures on mesmerism.
Miss Ella Dietz has written a little book entitled The Triumph of
Love, full of refined poetry.
Spibitualism has taken root in those lonely islands in the middle of
the Atlantic, the Azores, and we have received applications therefrom
for information.
De. Peebles will lecture at Doughty Hall, Bedford-row, on Sunday
evening next, at 7 p.m., on “ The Mohammedans, and their Doctrines;
the howling Dervishes, and their Spiritual Manifestations.”
On Monday evening, 4th inst., Miss Kislingbury will open a debate,
before the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, on Col.
Olcott’s letter to The Spiritualist, on “ The Views of Theosophists.”
The Baroness Von Vay writes to us with indignation at the treat¬
ment of Dr. Slade, by the authorities in Vienna. Arrangements were
in progress for his reception in her neighbourhood, where several
wished to test his powers on Spiritualism.
Eebata.—In Mr. Massey’s article on “ Spiritualism and Theosophy,”
published January 18th, for “incidental,” read “inimical,” and for
“love of logical superiority,” read “ tone of logical superiority.” In
Mr. Peebles’s letter, in the same issue, for “ these were not mediums,’ ’
read “these were mediums ; ” and for “ Zamiel,” read “ Tamil.”
Mabeiage.—At the Catholic Church of St. James’s, Spanish-place,
by the Rev. J. Guiron, Edward Nugent, second son of Captain John
James, late of the 90th Light Infantry, and of Littlebourne, Kent, to
Mary Rosina, only child of Major-General Charles Lionel Showers, of
the Bengal Army, and great-grand-daughter of the late General St.
George Ashe.
Reception at De. Wyld’s.—Last Tuesday night, Dr. and Mrs.
George Wyld entertained a large number of Spiritualists and other
friends at 12, Great Cumber! and-place, Hyde-park, W. Among those
present were Dr. and Mrs. Stanhope Templeman Speer, Mr. C. Speer,
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Captain John James, the Rev. Cosmo
Gordon, D.D., and Mrs. Gordon, Mr. W. H. Coffin and the Misses
Coffin, Miss Mackay, Mr. J. H. Gledstanes, Miss Kislingbury, Mr.
Algernon Joy, Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. Nicolle, the Rev. ,T. Colley,
Mrs. Hallock, Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, and many others. In the course of the evening, Mr. and
Miss Dietz gave some interesting recitations; Mr. Ward introduced
his new musical instrument—“ the angelute ; ” Mr. C. Speer gave some
excellent performances on the piano ; and Mr. Colville gave an im¬
promptu address on a subject chosen for him by Dr. Cosmo Gordon—
“ The Characteristic Distinctions between Men and Women.”
Spieitualism at Soweeby Beidge.—A correspondent says:—“In
Sowerby Bridge, when the preachers get tired of preaching at each
other, they turn their small guns and heavy artillery upon the small
band of Spiritualists who meet from time to time in the ‘ Spiritualists’
Progressive Lyceum.’ Some people are afraid to be seen to enter the
place, simply on account of its name, but when a Spiritualistic meeting
is held at the Town Hall, the very excellent singing of the choir, which has
a special charm about it, draws large numbers to the special service.
Mr. Wilson, of Halifax, is our principal speaker, and is reputed to be
a good inspirational medium. On Sunday, the 27th, fairly attended
meetings were held to hear two lectures by Mr. J. Coates, the mes¬
merist. A number of Spiritualists from Halifax were present at all the
meetings, notwithstanding the stormy miserable weather. Mr. Wilson
occupied the chair at the two Sunday meetings. Mr. Coates lectured in
the morning on ‘ The Spiritual Outlook ’; he gave a summary of the
history of Spiritualism, its phenomena, philosophy, ethics, and its
influence on the world, and in the church. The lecture, an inspirational
one, occupied an hour and a quarter in delivery. In the evening
Mr. Coates lectured on “ Mesmeric Healing.” The subject was highly
interesting, and the points made clear by homely illustrations. It
was regretted that Mr. Coates could not prolong his stay. His lectures
dealing with three distinct subjects—Phrenology, Spiritualism, and
Mesmerism—were as usual given without fee or reward to himself, the
proceeds being devoted to the funds of the Lyceum.”
De. Monck’s Seances.—M. Gustave de Veh sent us his report of one
of Dr. Monck’s seances, with permission to make any use of it we
pleased, and the request that we should adapt it to English readers, so
we merely made some simple grammatical corrections, and printed it in
its entirety. From a letter just received from M. de Veh, we learn that
he only wished a summary compiled from it, and not the publication of
a few remarks in it which might be construed as uncomplimentary to
Dr. Monck, he being fully convinced of the genuineness of everything
he saw at the stance. The report was an interesting one to the public,
and set forth details never previously published. It moreover resulted
in the further substantiation of the phenomena by the obtaining of them
off Dr. Monck’s premises, if the correct interpretation of the brief ad¬
ditional testimony of last week, coupled with that given before, is that
while Dr. Monck was in full view in Mr. Cranstoun’s house, the fully
materialised form of a man with living flexible features, was seen walk¬
ing about at a distance from Dr, Monck, in light good enough for the
living features of the form to be seen by all present. This is the inter¬
pretation readers will naturally assume to be correct, in the absence of
directly-given minute details. Experience gained from events in
America, shows that it is necessary in the public interests to be careful
before endorsing new manifestations, and some of our friends appear to
have been too sensitive to the slightest cross-questioning, which indeed
had been too long delayed. If living flexible features were not seen in
the form, the manifestation was not necessarily in advance of those pre¬
sented through other mediums.
Feb. 1,1878. THE SPIRITUALIST. 51
HERR BROCKMANN ON MEDIUMS.
(Translated from the “ Berliner Bor sen Zeitung”)
It is generally supposed that at the present moment Spiritualism
reckons its adherents in Europe and in America by hundreds of
thousands, and that there are more than sixty newspapers dealing
exclusively with the matter. We are no more justified, however, in
concluding from this extensive circulation that there is an atom of
truth in Spiritualism, than we would be in believing that the sun never
shone at midday, simply because sixty people chose to affirm it, and to
keep up a constant discussion on the subject.
A belief in the rappings and squeakings of ghosts has been prevalent
among uncivilised nations for hundreds, nay thousands of years, and
reviving, like many other errors, at long intervals, we reckon its last
resuscitation, under the name of Spiritualism, from the year 1847, in
North America, whence it speedily spread into the European Continent;
there, openly disproved and apparently extinguished, it suddenly raised
its head with renewed strength to carry on a successful and vigorous
propaganda. Spirit mediums hate long since cast mesmeric subjects
and somnambules into the shade; and it is not for a moment to be
denied that the cause is decidedly making great progress. For years
the manifestations of mediums were given only in darkened rooms;
now, there is no hesitation about exhibiting them openly. Formerly, the
writing was obtained at the dictation of spirits; now, the spirits are
eager to exhibit their own caligraphy.
During the last two years a number of works on the subject of Spirit¬
ualism have come under my notice, and I can but regard the time spent
in their perusal as utterly lost. To my regret the only fact elicited has
been this, that men of high literary distinction, such as Wallace and
others, only confirm the lamentable truth that high intelligence and
brilliant talent are too frequently found in combination with the most
deplorable weakness and contemptible folly ! The best work that I have
seen on the subject of Spiritualism is one, published years ago, by Baron
L. von Guldenstiibbe. I call it the best, because the author, a most
distinguished ethnologist, has laboured minutely to present all the
materials he has gathered from the cultus of other nations in a form the
most attractive and best adapted to the elucidation of his subject.
Gilldenstubbe is, moreover, one of the strongest pillars of Spiritualism,
for he boldly asserts his ability to summon tables from a distance. It
is alleged that his commands were obeyed as if those inanimate objects
were reasoning beings, drawn to him by a secret and irresistible
attraction. Baron Giildenstiibbe, I say, tutored and trained his spirits
so well, that they frequently wrote in his pocket-book, where their com¬
munications were subsequently found.
Previously to the arrival of Mr. Slade at Berlin, his approaching
advent had been heralded by a well-known and respected citizen of
Potsdam, who announced that the distinguished medium was on his
way to St. Petersburg, but would be glad to receive any visitors desirous
of seeing him, at the Hotel Kronprinz, during his stay in the Prussian
capital. Several gentlemen, whom I had known as highly respectable
and intelligent members of society, informed me subsequently of their
interviews with Mr. Slade, and their exclamations of “wonderful,”
“ astounding,” “ incredible,” combined with the reflection that I was,
happily, not a member of any society that could be compromised by my
proceedings, confirmed me in the resolution to look into the matter at
the earliest opportunity.
On the afternoon of the 7th of November, therefore, I decided on
putting the plan into execution, and, fortunately, secured the com¬
panionship of a friend, whose acquaintance with the English language
compensated for any deficiencies in that respect, on my part. Mr.
Slade, who was at dinner, sent down a message to the effect that he was
not equal to a seance, but hoped we would call again on Friday. To
my utter astonishment, the proprietor of the Kronprinz Hotel, a man
whom I had long known and esteemed, encountered us in the vestibule
as a confirmed and enthusiastic Spiritualist! He testified to the ex¬
hausted condition of Mr. Slade, and described how roughly he had been
treated by the spirits, who gave him no respite, and were incessantly
knocking and rapping under the table, even while he was at dinner.
With difficulty I repressed an inclination to laugh aloud. Subsequently
we learned from another source that the chief superintendent of police,
Herr von Madai, and General Intendant von Hulson had sat with Mr.
Slade on the same day, and were so much gratified and astonished by
what they had witnessed, as to communicate the result of the seance
directly to Professor Helmholtz whom they visited with that object.
On Thursday, the 8th, Herr Kerfach and I laid down the customary
fee, and were ushered into the presence of the medium—a thin, bony
man, with the countenance of a roue—who requested us to sit down
with him at a small, light table, with deep but empty drawers. As soon
as our hands were joined, in the usual way, the arms of Mr. Slade began
to move in a most suspicious manner, and he frequently drew his left
hand away from mine, afterwards observing to Herr Kerfach that the
force was too powerful, and that I was evidently a medium. Notwith¬
standing the derisive laugh with which I greeted this announcement, the
convulsive movement of the arms was continued in a somewhat alarm¬
ing and uncomfortable way, and I was questioned once more as to my
medial endowments, which I again firmly and decisively disclaimed,
whereupon it was thought prudent to bring the first act of the drama to
a close. Now began the slate-writing. A piece of pencil, about as
large as the fourth part of a pea, was placed on a slate, held by Mr.
Slade under the drawer of the table. The sound of writing was heard
almost immediately, and on the withdrawal of the slate we were
gratified by the perusal of the following original and instructive
sentence, which was undoubtedly designed for my friend, as I have not
the happiness of being either a husband or a father: “ God is love, and
you love your children.” The spirit now proceeded to write with the
pencil laid between two slates, carefully avoiding, however, to write on
both, and only vouchsafing the information, somewhat at variance with
I the opinion expressed by his medium, that I was not in any degree
mediumistic. However, my capacity was put to the test, for I was
] requested to hold a slate under the table precisely as had been done by
Mr. Slade, who successfully baffled any attempts the spirits might have
been condescending enough to make, by cunningly pushing against the
! leaf of the table, and causing the slate to slide from my grasp. Th;s
Ii movement the medium, who wore light shoes, could easily accomplish
j with his feet, the deep rim of the table rendering it a difficult matter to
peep under it directly. I must, however, bear my testimony to the fact
that the trick of the spirit-writing is certainly very cleverly executed,
and I give up all attempts to account for it, just as I would give up
| attempting to accomplish or explain the performance of Bellachini.
| Mr. Slade would not of course travel over the world to exhibit this
! accomplishment at the high price he demands were he not perfect in it.
| Bellachini, who works without the aid of spirits, and who is moreover
| not half so certain of success, only asks a tenth of Mr. Slade’s terms.
] It appears to me that the writing is executed with two fingers, and the
] slate dexterously turned before its production. One' significant fact
must not be omitted. The pencil increases in size instead of diminishing
i by writing, and undergoes a transformation apparently, for the piece
| shown afterwards is certainly different from the piece which is exhibited
| at first.
| The, third act consisted of knockings, which resounded here,
j there, and everywhere under the table, but, to the mortification
| of Mr. Slade, we took but little notice of them, our attention being
I concentrated on himself, and the jerking of one of his hips, which
| plainly indicated the movement of the leg; in fact, Herr Kerfach
| told me subsequently that, though one of the medium’s feet was
in his safe keeping, the other was distinctly seen by him to be moving
about under the table. My friend now felt a tug at his coat, and
disgusted by this time at the ridiculous pantomime, he requested that
| the spirits might be kept in better order. Mr. Slade stooped and held a
| slate under the table. On its withdrawal we found the assurance that
| the spirits would molest the visitors no more; whereupon I, who was
I sitting a good deal further off, entreated for some such proof of their
power as had been conferred on my friend, but was met by the assurance
| that the spirits would not, for any consideration, break a promise once
made, and thus ended the seance—in my opinion, an utter humbug. I
! would soften the expression were it not for the preposterous price
I charged for a sitting of twenty minutes; few of the seances are of
longer duration.
| It is alleged by Baron von Giildenstubbe that mediums are for the
1)1 most part uneducated people, a point which few ■will be inclined to
j dispute with him, when it is remembered that the spirit of Goethe
! (| allows itself the grossest latitude in grammar and orthography; and
jjj Alexander von Humboldt betrays, on scientific subjects, an ignorance
| (j that makes the hair of his admirers stand on end. St. Louis and St.
| (| Augustine, too, appear, to the amusement of the educated public, to
j} j have forgotten Latin since their translation to a higher state.
(! The attempts of believers to strengthen their position by adducing in
I its favour the writing at Belshazzar’s feast, and the commandments
) | given to Moses, only increase its absurdity with some, though sensible
l j and thoughtful men will not be inclined to overlook the more serious and
j | grave aspect of the case. Only too well does this abject credulity attest
) | the conclusion arrived at by Edward B. Tylor. “ Let us not for a
| (| moment suppose,” he says, “ that the belief in magic and sorcery has
f!| vanished, simply because it has for the moment lost its prominence.
!) | The progress of Spiritualism shows how little occasion we have to
| (I pride ourselves on the advances made by science and civilisation. The
j| | lower classes in China have for centuries past been in the habit of in-
i terrogating spirits, just as many of our scientific men now do, and the
||! very same manifestations are to be found among the Siberians, Tartars,
|) j and Indians, whose necromancers and medicine men call themselves
|) j media, just as Messrs. Home and Slade do.”
|\ | A work, written by John Ball in the sixteenth century, and entitled,
|j! An Interlude Concerning Nature, bears eloquent testimony to the fact
|) | that in the days when witches were burned, ghost-rapping and magic
| I went hand in hand. In alluding to the consternation created among
I) | the bewitched denizens of the farmyard by the supernaturally moved
! j chairs and tables—he says something to the following effect:—
j)! I can dry your streams and wells,
|( Your fruits and branches too,
! (| I can havoc make, and smash and break,
j j | If you summon me thereto.
| j ] Your chairs shall prance,
[) | Your pottery dance,
[(i Your floors and timbers move;
h j If you break the charm
j) I I will do you harm,
! j So herein I- dash my glove.
I j In conclusion, permit me to put a question or two to you, ladies and
| j gentlemen, Spiritualists. Is it not possible that your own intellect may
j j deteriorate by association with spirits of so ignorant and degraded a
I | class, and would you not rather that your dead were silent now and for
| i | all eternity, rather than that they should engage themselves to write and
|) | answer questions for Mr. Slade at twenty-one shillings a head ?
! (j Albert Brockmann.
We have received a long communication from Madame Blavatsky, of
New York, upon Theosophy, but are obliged, for want of room, to delay
its publication fill next week, in common with many other contributions
of interest, to the extent of ten or twelve columns.
As the second year of Mr. J. J. Morse’s engagement at Newcastle-
on-Tyne will shortly terminate, the Newcastle Psychological Society has
entered into an arrangement with him for a similar course of lectures
during another year. This will make the third year in succession.
52
THE SPIEITtTALIST.
Ebb. 1, 1878.
DEVOTIONAL SPIRITUALISM*
BX THE KEV. C. MAURICE DAYIES, D.D. j /
I have asked you to meet me here to-day in preference to (
any public or semi-public place, because I have learnt from )
recent experience, which has been rather practical than pain- s
ful, that Devotional Spiritualism (or, at all events, that kind <!
of Devotional Spiritualism which I wish to advocate) has
scarcely passed out of the domestic phase as yet. The other (
phase may or may not come; but the present is certainly
the day of small things, and it appears to me wise to adapt
ourselves to circumstances, since we cannot adapt circum¬
stances to our own tastes or wishes. I
The kind of Spiritualism which I mean, you pretty well |
understand. When I was speaking in any degree exoterically, j
I called it Christian Positivism, because it was possible j
that outsiders might say we were begging the question in i
using the term Spiritualism at all. There are no outsiders i (
now, therefore we need not be so much on our guard in this j j
respect. My great wish, directly I was able to put on record j {
a confession of faith on my own account, was to use any j (
influence I might possess in the way of spreading that faith |,
amongst others. If I were preaching a sermon, I should say j <
that directly I was converted I wanted to strengthen my J
brethren. |j
Eetracing my steps once more over the process of my own I <
conviction, I quite feel that it is in the normal condition of |
things that I should thus late put in my appearance as an j ]
advocate of those opinions which I have been for twenty |'
years studying.
Let me explain. j J
First in the series of Spiritualistic experiences come the I
phenomena : and here I did not hesitate long, but I had no j
more authority to speak than any one else. I can produce |
nothing on my own account. I do not carry the evidence I-
with me as mediums do. I have no special faculties for I
testing facts. In this respect I suppose I ought to confess |
inferiority to what are called scientific observers.
Then again, in the way of forming a theory for the facts,
I fancy everybody must make his or her own induction
in this respect. With some it is, I know, an intuition !
rather than an induction; but, in my case, it was a very j
long, painful induction indeed, as some of you know. I |
had no right to speak one word, because I was only groping 11
my way in the dark. ! <
But that theory once formed, a new state of things began, j i
Then I had to ask myself—every member, lay or clerical, of IJ
any religious body has to ask himself or herself—is this 11
new revelation consistent with my previous belief and pre- j i
sent position, or do the two clash?
Now, speaking in propria persond, from a parson’s |
point of view, directly I had answered that question for j
myself, then I felt bound to convey my experience to others, j
I know there are a great many people in the Church of |
England who are immensely interested in Spiritualism; who j
are not scared by the diabolical theory, but yet who feel that !
if they were to accept the phenomena and the theory of j
the Spiritualists, it would be destructive of previous belief,
and perhaps oblige them to change their religious com¬
munion altogether. I know this of the Anglican Church,
and have reason to believe that the same feeling prevails
in other communions also. Therefore it appeared to me |
that the most useful thing we could do would be to put |
strongly forward the constructive effect which Spiritualism |
has upon one’s previous belief. It builds up, and does not j
pull down. It does not add one to the many existing isms;
but, on the contrary, it affords a common basis on which
the adherents of all those different isms may meet, fusing
their differences for the time being, yet retaining all their
distinguishing characteristics. Spiritualism, in a word, lies
at the root of all the cardinal doctrines of Christianity ; nay,
of religion in general, and does not touch those secondary
matters, such as discipline, ritual, church government, and
so on, about which they chiefly differ.
Now, I really think we should do a very great thing if we
could get Spiritualism and orthodoxy just to look, however
coyly, at one another, and tolerate the bare possibility of I
their being reconcilable; and I do not much care how |
egotistical you may think me when I say that this word
orthodoxy may possibly have a sort of qualified meaning on
my lips. I have been so long associated rather with the
epithet <e unorthodox” than the reverse, that Spiritualists
would not feel any anxiety lest they should encounter in me
that rigid form of orthodoxy which mostly monopolises the
title; while, at the same time, as I am still a working
clergyman in the Church of England (whereof I have been
an ordained minister since 1851, 27 years next Trinity
Sunday), I might, perhaps, claim to represent in some
slight degree the spirit of the establishment and to gauge
its receptivity of these new facts- which it has to face. Of
course, men in authority will not face them. It would be
unreasonable to expect that they should. We all know the
tendency of the official mind to run in ruts and grooves.
Therefore, it strikes me that there is something exceptional
in my own position which may enable me to do something
towards making orthodoxy and Spiritualism understand one
another.
But single-handed I can do nothing; and, therefore, I
asked you to meet me here to-day, and on some few succeed¬
ing Wednesdays, so that we may confer together and see
whether we cannot do something towards promoting the
definitely religious study of Spiritualism.
There are some who look on the matter as a mere piece of
wonder-working. Against such I have no word to say,
because I rested for a very long time in that stage myself;
and I can now see that I was then, so to say, learning my
alphabet. Others view the matter scientifically ; and these,
no doubt, do very valuable service. But I myself have no
aptitude and little taste for this kind of study. Naturally
and necessarily I look upon Spiritualism as an added evidence
of Christianity. I believe that it certifies us as to the
character of the life to come by putting us in communion
with those who have entered on that life; and it is as such
a communion—in the strictest sense of the word—that
I hope to follow this matter up.
I am not ignorant, or losing sight, of the fact that
Spiritualism has another phase, that of a purifier of the
affections; though I am only just beginning to learn the
extent to which some believe that this power extends. This
phase is closely connected with the one I last mentioned.
One could scarcely believe that communion could be enjoyed
with those gone one step higher than ourselves, without that
communion exercising a very palpable effect in the way of
purity of life.
It seems to me that the effect of the belief I now have is
to convert the dogmas of theology into the deductions and
demonstrations of science. Theology once more takes its
place as the Queen of Sciences.
Now I need not say that there is in this study quite
enough to justify those who share such a belief in meeting
together and prosecuting the study of this most fascinating
subject.
How shall it be done ? Some say found a new church.
Why, when, as we have said, Spiritualism clashes in no
way with the doctrines of those to which we belong ? It
only vitalises them.
At least found a society, say others. I do not think this
necessary. I dread organisations, subscriptions, and any¬
thing of that kind.
No; let us for the present only confer. When I shall
have concluded these few remarks I shall ask one or two
who are present to say a word or two on the same subject,
and then we will, if you have no objection, close our in¬
formal meeting with one or two prayers from the Church of
England prayer-book. If this should be distasteful to any
person, there would be no awkwardness at all in that person
leaving before we commenced our prayers. On another
occasion I should like to commence in the same way with a
prayer and collect, just to preserve the strictly religious
character of our gathering, and would not do so to-day,
because I did not wish to take anybody by surprise. That
is the one thing, and the only one thing, upon which I
should like to insist in these gatherings that we should
always retain for them their definitely religious tone. I feel
sure that the large majority of those I have asked to meet
me to-day will think it due to myself to stipulate so much,
and also as a rule to select my prayers from my own prayer-
* An address delivered last Wednesday at a private meeting in Kensington.
53
Feb. 1,1878. THE SPIRITUALIST.
book, not because I do not think there are many ex- |||
cellent prayers in other manuals, but simply because this | |
one is mine. The fact of my being a clergyman of the | |
Church of England by no means limits my choice in this j j
respect, though I hope it does not narrow my view of the j||
general subject. I am, I assure you, constantly on my [Jj
guard lest this should by any possibility be the case.
What I should like to do—and what I hope to do—is to 11
continue these domestic conferences week by week up to j j
Easter, and then to consider whether we could in any way j j
advantageously modify our meetings. We may, perhaps, j j
especially during those Great Forty Days which have so j j
much significance for us, like to meet oftener, or make the j j
occasion of our meeting more purely one of worship and j j
of communion. That we shall see. We shall get twelve I
meetings if we carry out this plan, between the present time i j
and Easter, and I shall be surprised if we do not in those j
meetings form some sort of plan for the future.
I have to acknowledge the kind and ready sympathy with j j
which my proposals have been met—I mean especially in | j
the answers I have got from those whom I have asked to j
read papers. I have already more volunteers than would j j
fill up the remaining eleven Wednesdays, and I must ask j j
leave to select from the subjects proposed those which seem j j
to me most in keeping with the end we have in view. Next j/j
Wednesday, I am exceedingly glad to be able to announce ijj
that my friend Mr. Earle, the author of that excellent work ju
called The Spiritual Body, will read a paper bearing the j j
same title, which I am sure will be interesting and instructive, j j
I have great hopes, too, that on an early day my still older j j
friend, Mr. S. C. Hall, will favour us in the same way; but j j
we are most of us busy people, and the most we can hope to j j
do is to arrange from week to week as to reader and subject, j j
For myself, I am free to confess that, while the phenomenal j j
aspect has many attractions for me, and I am far from I j
insensible as to the attractions of Theosophy, it is as matter j |
of Christian Evidence I think that this subject may be so j/j
valuable. I still cling to my Christian Positivism. But j I
I rejoice to think that you will have the subject put before j j
you in many different aspects. Although we do not court j j
discussion, for we are in most matters “ of one heart and of j j
one mind,” still there is no reason why we should resolve
ourselves into a mere Mutual Admiration Society, or the
people of one idea only. I have given you, briefly and
roughly enough, my idea in asking you to meet here, and
will now ask Mr. Earle, Mr. Hall, and one or two other of
my coadjutors to expound what very possibly appears so far
a somewhat crude and imperfect notion.
SCIENTIFIC CONFIRMATIONS OF SPIRITUALISM.
BY EPE8 SARGENT.
In a series of lectures delivered in Boston, U.S.A., the
Rev. Joseph Cook (1878) is trying to reconcile the old evan¬
gelical theology with the developments of the more advanced
science. In this somewhat Quixotic attempt he has to throw
overboard the dogma of the resurrection of the physical,
terrestrial body; and in doing this he is driven to adopt the
precise teachings of Spiritualism in reference to the co¬
existence of a natural and spiritual organism.
Mr. Cook is a good German scholar, and, while we cannot
follow him in some of his vagaries, he has done us ser¬
vice in bringing together all the psychological conclu¬
sions of such high German authorities as Schoberlein,
Professor in the University of Gottengen, Julius Muller,
Dorner, Delitsch, Lotze, and Ubrici. Nearly all these men
are not only profound metaphysicians, but experienced phy¬
siologists and anthropologists; and they have proclaimed
views in regard to the soul that are quite reconcilable with
the facts of Spiritualism. These views show that Mr.
Frederic Harrison is wholly in error in assuming that the
most advanced religious science of our day teaches that death
is not only an unfettering of the soul, but a real and total
disembodiment of it in every sense. Mr. Harrison’s objec¬
tions are completely annulled by the construction put
upon psychological facts by modern Spiritualism, and by the
contemporaneous German metaphysicians and physicists
whom I have named.
Here is what Professor Schoberlein says, according to Mr.
Cook:— J
The soul appropriates from the outer world the materials suitable
for its ‘body. The formation of the body is not a result of mere
chemical affinities between different elements of matter, but it is a
vital process; it proceeds from the animate principle. The soul
assumes to itself such elements as adequately express its life and wants.
It itself, and not chemical affinities, is the organising principle.
God has destined soul and body to exist in eternal unity with each
other. There is a natural body and there is a spiritual body. Bodi¬
lessness implies a hindrance in free self-reservation. The highest per¬
fection of the future, no less than of the present life, calls for the
corporeity of the soul.
We must come to the standpoint of an ideal realism, which holds the
middle path between a materialistic deification of nature on the one
hand, and a Spiritualistic contempt of it on the other. Precisely this
is the standpoint of the Holy Scriptures. In every position we shall
take our conscious purpose will be not to speculate without authority,
but simply to educe into fuller expression that which appears to us as
clearly involved in the Word of inspiration itself.
In the inorganic world we find potency and matter undistinguishable.
Crystals, for example, are formed simply by the immediate action of
the Spirit. It is only in the plant that force rises to some sort of indi¬
viduality. Here there is a vital unity which attracts to itself homo¬
geneous elements, and thus gives to itself an outer form. Such force is
life, and such form an organism. At the next higher stage force
becomes animal life. Here the central life has sensation, and is able to
bring its organism into different relations to the outer world. Such
life, or force, we call soul; such a sensitive, movable, soul-subservient
organism, is a body.
The body is rooted with all the fibres of its being in the soul. Nay,
the soul, on its nature-side, bears already within itself the essence, the
potentiality, of a body; and it needs only to draw to itself the proper
elements from the outer world in order that the germinally extant
inner body actually posit itself as a crude outer body, even as the
virtually extant tree, in the ungerminated seed, needs only to unfold its
potency in order to become a real tree.
The body appears, therefore, as an integral element of human nature,
both in this state of probation and in the future state of eternal per¬
fection.
Jesus spiritualised His inner man, His soul, in its unity of spirit and
of nature. Thus, also, He laid'the foundation for the transfiguration,
the ideal spiritualisation of His body, inasmuch as the essence of the
visible body is grounded in the soul. This process was an inner hidden
one. The hidden reality shone forth only in occasional gleams—in
those miracles of mastery over His body and over nature with which
the Gospels abound. We emphasise simply the identity of the risen
with the buried body. The essence of His body remained the same ;
simply the mode of its existence was changed. A fleshly body has
become a spiritual body, in which not only the free harmony of the soul
with the inborn spirit stamps its harmony on the outer features, but,
also, in which the material elements themselves are thoroughly per¬
meated and exalted by the spirituality of the person.
The peculiar traits of spiritual beauty which occasionally beam out
from the persons of ripened believers are actual reflexes of the trans¬
figured corporeity which lies potentially within them. The natural
fleshy body is simply the receptacle, the womb, in which the new body
is invisibly generated and qualified, up to the hour when, the crude
flesh falling away, it shall pass into the heavenly state and spring forth
into its full beauty and actuality.
So far Professor Schoberlein. What is it all but a repeti¬
tion, in somewhat different form, of what Swedenborg said
more than a century ago, and other medial seers have been
saying these many years.
For the last quarter of a century, Ulrici has been teaching
j the application of the scientific method to psychology, and
j the proofs of a substantial basis of immortality in man co-
j existing with the spiritual life. He has been associated in
j j the management of a journal of psychology with Hermann
I j Fichte, who has repeatedly avowed his belief in the super-
j j sensuous origin of the phenomena of modern Spiritualism,
j j Ulrici affirms that it is stern, exact inference from the surety
j I of our persistent sense of identity, that there is something to
j j which that case belongs. There cannot be any seeing,
I j unless there is something that sees. There cannot be feeling
| j unless there is something that feels. Now, we have a per-
j sistent sense of identity; we have a percipience of identity,
j j and there must be a perceiver of identity. As this per-
j j cipience is constant, the perceiver must be a unit from year
j j to year, although the body changes, as we know, every twelve
j j months.
Lotze, one of the greatest names of our day in science, in
j j the estimation of our German brethren, has for a quarter of
j j a century opposed the mechanical theory of life ; and Ulrici
j j has defended more than once, in the name of biological
!) j science, the theory that the soul has an ethereal enswathement
j j from which it is not separated at death. To these men the
jjj separation of the soul from the flesh is its unfettering, but
j j not its disembodiment.
Thus it will be seen that some of the profoundest thinkers
of Germany, taking into view all the facts which the Dar-
5l
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Peb. 1, 187$.
SPONTANEOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
winians can adduce, assuming all that there is true in the
teachings of Voght, Buchner, and Haeckel, are still compelled
to fall back upon the hypothesis deducible from the facts of
Spiritualism, and illustrated in its phenomena, that there is
a spiritual body co-existent and contemporaneous with the
natural, and surviving the dissolution of the latter. If there
is anything that Spiritualism insists upon, it is this great
fact; and it is gratifying to see how fast modern science is
confirming this doctrine in many independent directions.
(1 Psychography” is now a fact of science. Spirit photography,
the moulding of spirit hands, and the introduction of flowers,
independently of material obstructions, are in the way of being
confirmed and established on an equally impregnable basis
of certainty. In view of these developments, who can deny
that there has been great progress in Spiritualism within the
last two years ?
Boston, U.S.A., Jan. 3rd, 1878.
A SEANCE WITH MISS K. COOK.
BY WILLIAM H. HABBISON.
A few days ago I was at a seance with Miss K. Cook, the
well-known non-professional medium, at the residence of
her parents. The other sitters were Mrs. Cook and Miss Edith
Cook. The seance took place in a drawing-room, lighted
with gas when I first went in and examined it; the mani¬
festations afterwards took place in weak diffused light, from
distant gas-lamps outside the house, and was regulated by
the Venetian blinds of the window.
We could all see each other. The other two sitters were
at a distance from the medium and myself, and the pheno¬
mena were presented directly under my gaze, within nine
inches from my feet, on the bare surface of the nailed-down
carpet of the room, while I held the hands of the medium,
and saw her feet. There was no open door or curtain near.
After the lapse of five minutes, a dense, white cloudy
mass, about a foot in diameter, formed on the carpet. It
was non-luminous, and visible by reflected light only. A
white cloud formed over one side of the breast of the
medium, extending almost in a straight line from her
shoulder to the middle of her waist, and falling down by her
side to the mass on the floor; this upper cloud was of
triangular shape, and the lower point of the triangle touched
the cloudy mass below; both clouds were seven or eight
minutes in attaining full dimensions. Little Edith Cook
then left the room, and the moment she rose from her seat
the clouds diminished and disappeared. Half a minute
later they grew to full size again. Soon afterwards Mrs.
Cook shifted her seat, and the clouds nearly disappeared as
she did so, but directly afterwards were of full size again.
Then the whole of the upper cloudy mass went from the
medium down to the floor, where it grew denser, more
structural and solid, and for the first time began to rustle.
Then up rose a form, seen by all of us, robed in white, the
head level with the shoulder of the medium. The average
diameter of this form, in which I saw no features, was half
that of an ordinary human being, and a voice, coming I
know not whence, claimed the form to be that of “ Lillie
Gordon,” in a half-developed state. The “eerieness” of the
whole thing was relieved by some kindly and amusing
remarks made by Lillie to the medium.
We observed the movements of this form for about five
minutes, when the light was almost totally shut out, and some
manifestations of a more well-known character then began.
Me. J. J. Moese has written an interesting little history of his
life as a trance medium, and the book may be Obtained from him at
Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Some complaints, from India and elsewhere, have been published in
these pages about the high price of spiritualistic books, which, when
of standard quality in both contents and get-up, have hitherto com¬
monly varied from 7s. 6d. to 15s. each. We are now introducing
standard books into the movement at 5s. each, and the demand from
all parts of the world is increasing in proportion to the liberality of
the step.
Mbs. Guppy Volckman and Mr. Yolckman, last Sunday evening,
invited a number of . friends to listen to some recitations by Miss
Strafford, a young American actress, who has similarly displayed her
abilities at “ at homes ” at the residence of Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Ellis.
Miss Strafford has great natural talent for tragedy, and displays true
artistic powers ; her best piece given in our presence has been “ The
Death of Hiawatha.”
I BY ELIZA BOUCHEK.
Year after year into the dust-bin of oblivion is swept a
I large mass of evidence bearing upon and illustrating almost
| every phase of psychical science, for the simple reason
I that Spiritualists and investigators fail to collect and throw
into form the many accounts of strange phenomena which
| are constantly cropping up in private life, to either the
| ignorant terror or equally ignorant mystification of the
| sensitives to whom they have presented themselves. Before
I became acquainted with the varied and beautiful literature
of Spiritualism, I always felt a deep interest in, and a re-
| alisation of, the great importance of the facts connected with
j the spontaneous phenomena, as demonstrating the truth of
| the doctrine of a life beyond the grave, and, as I had op-
| portunity, entered into conversation with those whom I
| thought capable of throwing light on this most interesting
| subject. On looking back over my life, I find that many
j narratives have been given me from time to time by persons
] (who at the period of the occurrence of the events were
utterly unacquainted with the very name of modern Spirit-
| ualism), all of which tend more or less to enlarge the basis
| of facts upon which each separate phase of the phenomena
| rests.
The two following accounts were related to me some years
since, the first by the curate in charge for a quarter of a
| century of my native town, and the second by our family
physician of still longer standing, and with both of whom I
had been acquainted from childhood. The first narrator I
shall denominate J, the second F. J in his earlier years
| resided with his parents in the country, and being fond of
sport—as it is termed—had on one particular occasion a
young man staying in the house with whom he hoped to
enjoy some shooting on the following day. On knocking
at his door the next morning, he was somewhat surprised
and disgusted by his friend’s declaring himself too unwell to
get up. J accordingly went out alone, but on returning
some hours later found that his friend had become gradually
so ill that before the close of the day a messenger was de¬
spatched to communicate the sad intelligence to his parents
and request their immediate attendance. Late in the even¬
ing the family were assembled in the dining room, and hear¬
ing a rush down the avenue concluded that their sadly
expected guests had arrived, and the lady of the house on
going into the kitchen to apprise the servants, was astonished
at finding the housemaid in violent hysterics, exclaiming at
intervals, “ Oh I I thought I should have been under the
horses’ hoofs.” When she became a little calmer they
gathered that having occasion to go into the yard, she had
been fearfully terrified on seeing a hearse with four horses
pass her and sweep round by the stables instead of stopping
at the door. All this, though very remarkable, might be
relegated to the realm of imagination; but mark the sequel.
The parents in due time arrived, the son died during the
night, and about a week after the vision a hearse and four
horses came to convey the body to its last earthly resting
place. On approaching the house one of the men, seeing the
inconvenience which would be caused by stopping the hearse
directly at the front door, gave the order “ Drive round by the
stables” and thus the material hearse took precisely the
same direction as its phantom predecessor, and proved the
truth even in detail of the clairvoyante prevision of the un¬
conscious medium.
The next narrative illustrates the subject of guardian
angels. In his earlier days, whilst studying for or gaining
experience in his profession, Dr. F. was placed with a rela¬
tive who treated him in an inconsiderate and unkind manner,
rendering the life of the young student a most unhappy one
by his exacting harshness. One night, as the doctor nar¬
rated to me, he was suddenly awoke by a light shining into
his room; rousing himself, he concluded that his relative
had come to call him on some professional business, when,
to his surprise, he heard a voice saying: “ Be of good com¬
fort.” Now, naively remarked the doctor, “ I knew just
as much about the Bible as most boys of my age, and con¬
sequently was even ignorant of the origin of the words.”
As he was by no means terrified he slept again quite tran¬
quilly. On subsequently meeting an elderly friend he
innocently inquired if it was usual for Providence thus to
THE SPIRITUALIST.
55
Feb. 1, 1878.
interfere in our mundane affairs. His friend regarded the !;
whole matter as a delusion of the senses brought on by
worry J and injudicious treatment, and gave his opinion !
accordingly; but the sequel again pointed to the conclusion
that the vision was of supermundane origin, for, soon after,
if not the next day, an offer was made him which resulted
in his removal from his relative’s baneful influence, and from
that time he became a comparatively happy and prosperous
man.
From a further account which he gave me, it appeared j
that a sister of the latter gentleman had also the spirit- j
sight developed to a great extent, for when about fifteen
years of age, while sleeping with her mother, she awoke
the latter by exclaiming “ Mamma ! Aunt E. has just come j
into the room and seated herself in that chair.” Her j
mother replied, <l I did not know even that you were aware j
of her existence; at all events, this is but a dream,” and, j
supposing it must be so, the young lady slept again. The |
event, however, again pointed to a different conclusion, for j
the post soon after brought an account of the aunt’s death I
about the time of her spectral appearance to the niece. I
e< But,” added the doctor, “ she left us nothing, nor could I j
ever account for her appearance to my sister! ” So material- |
istic has man become by turning a deaf ear to the still
small voice which in all ages has whispered that there may
be more things in Heaven and earth than are dreamed of in
the world’s philosophy.
Albion Villa, Freemantle-square, Bristol.
SPACE AND TIME*
BT CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY.
The first words which the celebrated Fichte addressed
to his astonished pupils when he met them in the lecture-
room at Jena were, “Denken sie das wand,”—“Think
the wall.” In that injunction, which is said to have
somewhat disconcerted his hearers, sounds the knell
of all materialistic systems. I cannot make good
this assertion this evening, but anything like an intelli¬
gible exposition of the subject of my paper would at least
render those systems less plausible to popular apprehen¬
sion. For I understand by Materialism the system that
makes of consciousness the outcome or the dependent i
correlate of physical structure. And if it can be shown j
that our whole consciousness of an objective world involves j
the presupposition of powers essentially ideal, why then, |
although we may have to go further, and to pronounce the j
internal consciousness itself to be no less phenomenal j
than this objective world, we shall at least avoid the |
alternative error of explaining one set of phenomena by !
another, or of referring the function which is at least a !
factor in the origination of both to its own product. But j
for the spiritualist and the materialist alike, there is behind I
this inner and outer consciousness a provisionally un- j
known x.
What is an object ? Mr. Shad worth Hodgson, in his S
acute and learned work, Time and Space, has done a good !
service to logical psychology by recalling the scholastic j
distinction between “ first and second intentions.” If, for j
instance, I say that the object before me is a table, I j
evidently describe, not a simple, but a classified perception, j
The understanding has already busied itself with the j
senses, and we have what is called an object in its second j
intention. To get at an object in its first intention is to j
get at it as it comes before the sensibility, free from any j
admixture of thought. It is obvious that any recognition of I
an object as object is only possible by a movement of thought j
which discriminates object from subject, and thus classifies j
it as belonging to the totality of the non-ego. In short, when- I
ever a perception is described by or rendered into any propo- j
sition whatever by the percipient, the primitive intuition is |
entangled in an act of logic. But this, which we must not I
yet call table, or even object, is certainly something, even I
to the unassisted senses. It has, or rather there is for the |
senses what we have learned to call a brown colour, and a i
figure which we have learned to call round or square. In j
every perception of the senses we discriminate two ele- I
ments, to wit, what, in philosophical language, is called its jj
* A paper read last Monday evening before the British National Association of Spiritu- 1(
absts, London,
“ matter,” or “ content,” that is those visible or tangible
qualities which are analysable into sensation, and its
“ form,” which is always spatial extension. It is with this
“ form ” that we are concerned this evening. We want to
know what this space, this extension is, and how we come
by our knowledge of it. According to common belief, we,
our bodies that is, and all things cognisable by our senses,
occupy parts of an infinite space, which space, it is
supposed, exists as a void, independently of us and of all
sentient beings, and would so exist were there no objects
or things to occupy it. There is here, as we shall see, that
recognition of the necessities of thought which we may
always expect from the unsophisticated understanding,
however erroneous may be, and in this case certainly is,
its formal statement. In the opinion of the sensational,
or empirical school of philosophy, we lose sight of this
recognition altogether, and the concept of space is repre¬
sented as empirical, and generated like all other such
concepts, that is to say by comparison and abstraction of
the particular extensions of observed objects. Lastly, we
have the doctrine of a more recent school, distinguished by
much constructive ingenuity, which derives perceptions of
space from those of time, calling in the aid of a principle
of great importance in psychology,—known as the law of
Indissoluble Association,—to account for the apparently
elementary character of the conception. But this doctrine
need not detain us; for, besides that it is wholly hypo¬
thetical, professing only to show what may possibly be the
case, its exegesis is vitiated at every step, and in almost
every phrase by an inveterate propensity to begging the
question. Mr. Bain has, I believe, such honour as belongs
to its authorship, and it has received much attention from
Mr. J. S. Mill, and other distinguished psychologists.
However, the account which I have next to present to you
is the one accepted, I believe, by every thinker who has
adequately studied and mastered it.
I said that the common opinion about space rests on a
necessity of thought.
We know space only through the senses, and from objects
of the senses we can abstract all that is contingent, in
philosophical language, all their content.” But there is one
thing that we cannot get rid of by abstraction, and that is
the pure form or continent. How I have to introduce to you
the demonstration of Kant, that for this very reason, its
necessity in thought, Space can be nothing but a construction
of the sensuous consciousness, or intuition. Whatever is
given to us by experience is contingent; it may or may not
exist independently of our consciousness, but at least we
can suppose its non-existence as easily as its existence. By
a slight effort you can empty Space in thought of all its
content, you can make the universe of sense a void. But
the void remains—you cannot think it away ; it is necessary.
Now Kant said, Experience can never give us a necessary
fact, or rather can never give us its necessity. Your whole
past experience that you have never met with a centaur is no
necessary proof that you will not meet one in the street this
evening; your whole past experience of the sun rising in the
morning is no necessary proof that it will rise to-morrow.
In short, Kant applied Hume’s famous argument against
necessary causation to all the facts of experience, to ex¬
perience in general. Every one versed in the elements of
logic knows that the major premise upon which inductive
reasoning founds its deductive syllogism is not a necessary
truth. But when we say “ all objects of the senses are
extended,” we affirm a proposition which we at once per¬
ceive to be perfectly necessary, and valid, without any logical
reservation, for all future as well as for all past experience.
Kant, then, applied two criteria, Necessity and Universality,
to distinguish d priori from empirical cognitions. He said,
moreover, we do not get our conception of Space as we get
our empirical conceptions, by comparison and abstraction.
We do not think of Space as contained in all objects, but as
containing all objects. Compare the conception of Space
with that of colour, for instance. Colour is an empirical
conception, but, like all empirical conceptions, it is an
abstraction. Apart from all particular colours it has only a
nominal signification. We get it from our experience of
red, green, blue, &c. Not so with Space. We do not think
of space as composed of, and referable to all particular spaces,
56
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 1, 1878.
but as containing these. Again, if you examine the empirical j i
explanation which assimilates the conception of Space to | f
conceptions derived from abstraction, you find a petitio facti. j j
One of Kant’s commentators, Kuno Fischer, puts this so j i
clearly that I will take leave to quote him, from Mr. !
Mahafiy’s translation :—u But we might ask—nay, must |
ask—Out of what perceptions are space and time drawn ? j
from what impressions are they abstracted ? The only con- j j
ceivable answer is this;—We perceive things as they exist j
out of us, and beside one another, as being either simul- J
taneous or successive; out of these perceptions we abstract i
what they have in common—the general concept of being |
without and beside one another, and call this concept space; |
the general concept of being beside and after one another, |
and call this concept time ; and so these two representations j
are formed apparently like all our other abstract concepts, j
We perceive things as they exist beside one another. What j
does existing beside one another mean ? Either nothing at j
all, or that they are in different places. We perceive things j
as simultaneous and successive. Simultaneous can mean j
nothing but in the same point of time; successive nothing j
but in different times. What, then, do we perceive ? Things j
as existing in different places, in the same or different points j
of time; this is simply to exist in space or time: so that the j
empirical explanation of space and time says merely this :— |
We perceive things as they are in space and time, and from |
that we abstract space and time. In other words, from space !
and time we abstract space and time! This is a perfect !
example of an explanation as it should not be. It explains |
the thing by itself. It presupposes, instead of explaining, I
what is to be explained. The explanation, then, or deduc- j
tion, is as worthless as it is easy.” I
Again, when we speak of space as infinite, we affirm a j
necessary truth, and one which experience certainly could !
not give us. We mean only that it is impossible to put a j
limit to Space in thought. What we assert is our power of j (
transcending limits in imagination. We can construct yet j |
more and more space. Space has been spoken of hitherto | j
as a conception. But this is a misnomer. Space is not | (
only not a conception derived from our experience of ex- j
tended objects, but it is the d priori condition of the j
possibility of this experience. For we should make a great ! j
mistake if we concluded that Space is one of those tc innate j
ideas” respecting which earlier metaphysical schools con- | j
tended. It may have struck you that the necessity of Space j j
was rather an argument for its objective or real existence j [
than for its subjective character. You might admit that !
experience cannot give us a necessary conception, and also | (
that this conception is radically unlike and even the exact j j
reverse in character, of the general conceptions which ex- j j
perience does in fact give. But you might rather infer that ! I
a necessary conception represents something independent of j)
the mind than that which is a conception only. The genesis 11
of a conception, you may say, is one thing; its validity in j \
relation to reality is another. In another part of Kant’s I j
great work, for instance, the idea of God is shown to be a j j
necessary idea of the pure reason, and though Kant held j |
this idea incapable of verification, later thinkers whose j
idealistic tendencies were more developed than his, have j (
found in this transcendent necessity of thought the predi- | j
cate of existence indispensably involved. You might take I
your stand on the hypothetical u pre-established harmony” j
of Leibnitz, and might say to me, ((if you can give no j
other account of the genesis of space than negatively j
that it is not derived from experience, it may yet well be j j
that we are so constituted that our necessities of thought j j
correspond with realities external to thought.” But, as it j
happens, we can give a further account of it than this negative i
one. We can show that it is not only a necessity of thought I j
but a construction of the Ego, and that only by this process |
of construction is perception possible. I pray your attention |
to what follows. It is supposed that in perception the per- j |
cipient is quite passive, and that the real extended object is |)
impressed upon the sensibility as you might impress a figure j \
on a sheet of paper. But the paper is not conscious, the ! j
percipient is. What is he conscious of? An extended j>
object. But being extended, it is divisible, and if it is real, j<
it must be infinitely divisible. For the real space must ||
correspond with the necessities of the space that is thought, ( 1
otherwise we have no ground at all for supposing it, and it
is indeed for thought, nothing. And space in thought can
be divided in infinitum, just as it can be extended in infinitum.
Now, if I was at this point combatting the claim of the
(i object” to be real ornoumenal, or to be anything else than
a phenomenon of consciousness, without prejudice to its un¬
known cause, this infinite divisibility which it has by reason
of its spatial form would be alone sufficient to disprove that
claim. For existence implies unity, and, except ideally, a
whole or aggregate has no unity, unity belonging only to its
ultimate elements or parts. The unity we ascribe to an
organism, for instance, is not a real unity, or an unity of
existence, but refers only to a relation of parts, resulting in
structure and function. But an extended object—an object in
space—can have no such ultimate elements or parts; and
the indivisible atom of the materialists, if it exists, must
needs exist out of space. Nor could the aggregation of any
number of such extra-spatial atoms, being thus not homo¬
geneous with phenomenal matter, result in one extended
molecule, or build up an universe perceptible to sense. Thus
the philosophic materialist must needs be at one with the
idealist as to the phenomenal character of the world of sense,
and if so-called scientific materialists would only keep this
fact constantly and consistently in view we should hear
less of that continual disparagement of metaphysics which
comes so strangely from those whose systems must rest
upon a transcendental ontology. But since I am now
endeavouring to show the very genesis of space as a con¬
struction of the ego—this is a digression, though not an
irrelevant one—it is obvious then, that to constitute an
object of the sense, whether of sight or touch, there must
be a synthesis, or putting together of the parts of that
object. Now, what, for consciousness, are those parts?
The answer readily presents itself that they are minima
msibilia, or minima tangibilia, the smallest surfaces that can
affect the consciousness. But then, by the very nature of sense
perception, they are still surfaces; still extensions. The
smallest visible speck or point is yet not the mathematical
point, but has sides which look to the infinite north, south,
east, and west of it. It occupies an ex hypothesi appreciable
portion of space. Thus we cannot begin our synthesis with
this minimum, but this minimum itself is the result of a
prior synthesis, and that synthesis, pray mark, is not a
synthesis in consciousness, because it is already accom¬
plished before consciousness commences. Now what ac¬
complishes it ? If it is replied that the invisible parts are
aggregated to a visible dimension, and then impress the
sensibility, how, I ask, can their collective action be other
than the several action of the parts ? But, ex concesso, the
parts cannot affect the sensibility. I need hardly observe
that the difficulty is not even for the moment evaded by
considerations of the physiological mechanism of sensation
(even if such considerations were not wholly out of place in
metaphysical inquiries, however necessary an adjunct they may
be to psychology), for it is just as difficult to explain why a
strong nerve vibration, or half a dozen vibrations should result
in consciousness, as why a weak or a single one should do
so. All we can say of the relation of consciousness to
its immediate physical antecedents or concomitants is all
that we can say of its relation to the supposed real object,
namely, that it is just so-and-so. If, however, we call in
aid an unknown substratum of consciousness itself, and
say that the several impressions of the invisible parts of the
object may affect it, and accumulating therein, emerge in
consciousness as the extensive minimum of the latter, then
it is plain that we transfer the scene and effective operation
of the synthesis to this unknown force or substance. That,
however, is to give up to me the very position which I am
contending for, namely, that Space is a subjective construc¬
tion. But if a subjective construction, we have no warrant
whatever for supposing it to be also an objective fact, in the
noumenal as opposed to the phenomenal sense of the word
objective. There is no such putting together of impossible
pre-existent parts as is presupposed in realism, but a con¬
tinuous construction, just as we may draw a line on a paper,
or by imagination. Spatial perception is imagination, not in
its connoted sense of illusion, but in its literal meaning of the
construction of an image. Kant, however, expressly dis¬
claimed attributing activity to the subject in mere sensibility.
Feb. 1, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
57
Space, he said, is the subjective a 'priori form of sensibility.
It does not belong, any more than the sensations which
represent the matter of the unknown object, to the latter.
The phenomenal object, therefore, is presented to us without
any consciousness on our part of having been concerned in
its production. It is precisely because we have no choice in
the matter, because the sensibility must, by its own inherent
conditions, be affected thus and in no other way, that we
ascribe independent objectivity to the phenomenon ; just as,
up to the time of Copernicus, men assumed that the to
them necessarily apparent motions of the heavens were the
real motions. Kant, indeed, compares his own proceeding
in metaphysics to that of Copernicus in astronomy. “We
here propose,” he says, in the Preface to the second edition,
“ to do just what Copernicus did in attempting to explain
the celestial movements. When he found that he could make
no progress by assuming that all the heavenly bodies revolved
round the spectator, he reversed the process, and tried the ex¬
experiment of assuming that the spectator revolved, while the
stars remained at rest. We may make thesameexperiment with
regard to the intuition of objects. If the intuition must con¬
form to the nature of the objects, Ido not see how we can know
anything of them a priori. If, on the other hand, the obj ect con¬
forms to the nature of our faculty of intuition, I can then easily
conceive the possibility of such an dpriori knowledge.” This
dpriori knowledge, which mere experience, and, therefore, a
mere conformity of subject to object, could never give us, is
mathematical science. The propositions about space and its
relations, which geometry is concerned with, could never
possess their apodeictic certainty if we obtained our concep¬
tion of space from experience. These propositions are syn¬
thetic and d priori. They are synthetic and not analytic,
because the predicate in them tells us more about space and
its relations than is already contained in the subject. They
are d priori, because experience, while it conforms to them,
could never present us with one of them as necessary and
universal. And because these propositions respecting space
are synthetic and likewise d priori, it is evident that space
is not a conception, but an intuition. For as, on the one
hand, an empirical conception can obtain from experience
an addition which enables a synthetic proposition to arise
from it—as in the judgment “ all bodies are heavy,” but-yet
these propositions can never claim either necessity or uni¬
versality, so, on the other hand, an d priori conception
which does give rise to necessary and universal propositions
can yet never go out of itself or give rise to a synthetic
judgment, inasmuch as it has nothing but its own content
from which the materials of such a judgment can be drawn, j) j
The necessary and universal fundamental truths of space,"or |) j
axioms of geometry, therefore, are seen in an intuition, and j i
not evolved from conceptions. “ It is therefore not merely | j
possible or probable,” says Kant, “ but indubitably certain, ) |
that Space and Time, as the necessary conditions of all our R
external and internal experience, are merely subjective con- I j
ditions of all our intuitions, in relation to which all objects j
are therefore mere phenomena, and not things in themselves, R
presented to us in this particular manner. And for this j
reason, in respect to the form of phenomena, much may be |
said a priori, whilst of the thing in itself, which may lie at j
the foundation of these phenomena, it is impossible to say j
anything.” ij
I am unwilling to detain you, but still more unwilling to j
pass over in silence another consideration which many minds j
may more easily assimilate than the foregoing. This is the ||
relativity of space dimensions to the faculty of perception, i
The “ wonders of the microscope” are a well-worn topic. I
It almost bores us now to hear of the millions of animals j|
which live and move and have their being in a space which R
is less than the minimum visible to the human eye. And |
this is so because the one lesson of the microscope which ij
is the most consequent and significant we have failed to H
realise: that lesson is the relativity of space to organism, j
The microscope notwithstanding, the yard to us remains the j
absolute yard, the mile the absolute mile. If it was the j
question of a truth discerned by the intellect this would be |j
reasonable. Being a question of the senses, we are bound j
to admit the equality of the animalcule, which sees with |j
other eyes than ours. The yard of the animalcule is not |j
our yard, but it is just as much a yard as ours. It is a
yard to it just as our yard is a yard to us. In other words,
the dimensions of Space are relative only to the organs
that measure them. The mite has a world as large
as that which we can compass by our senses; and that world
is comprised in what, to our senses, is little more than a
point. Nor is there any difficulty in conceiving that to
another faculty of intuition our whole visible universe might
be invisible by reason of its extreme minuteness. Are we
not irresistibly led to conclude that that which thus varies
with the sense is but the form of the sense ? Thus regarded,
the phenomena of space—the objective world—are not illu¬
sions but manifestations. The body, for instance, is a
manifestation of me, but not only of me as a spirit, but also
of those lower forms of spirit which we classify as the animal,
vegetable, and mineral kingdoms, worked up into a higher
organism. If I was to drop dead before you, my body would,
therefore, not vanish from your sight, because it manifests
other spiritual elements than that which is essentially me,
and which elements are only gradually withdrawn from
organic combination. We must, however, admit the possi¬
bility of an instantaneous withdrawal of all the elements of
which body is the manifestation. What these lower elements
are we cannot say, but I conceive them as the congestion of
spirit, originally intelligent force ultimated into an action
that has become automatic, constant, unvarying as definite
function, or still lower, as what must needs appear to us the
inaction of so-called dead matter. But if from any cause its
free circulation is restored, and it is thus able to withdraw
itself, or to be withdrawn either from its static apathy, or
from its monotonous action, then will its manifestation, as
dead matter or subordinate function, also cease or change.
That this liberation should be instantaneous ought to be no
more surprising than that chemical conversion when the
proper elements are brought together in the right proportions
is instantaneous instead of being gradual as we see it in most
of the processes of nature. Those phenomena, therefore, of
which there are many on record, of the sudden disappearance
of a human body from view of the spectators, is as conceiv¬
able upon metaphysical principles as upon the theory of
mesmerism, which is sometimes adopted; and to the same
category belong other phenomena, which some of us have
witnessed, which do not seem to admit of the latter explana¬
tion. I mean those cases of solid objects disappearing and
reappearing at distant places, to which other solid obstacles
would prevent their physical carriage. If, for instance, I
do not accept the story of Mrs. Guppy’s miscalled flight
from Holloway to Lamb’s Conduit-street, it is not because
I see anything at all incredible in it, but because the
evidence has failed, in this particular instance, to satisfy me
of the fact as proven, though I think it very probably is
true. No Spiritualist, of course, is absurd enough to sup¬
pose that there was an actual flight through space of Mrs.
Guppy’s phenomenal body. It is generally described as a
disintegration in one place and a reintegration in another.
Those who would charge us with ignorance of the indestructi¬
bility of matter may be referred for a reply to the well-known
work of two of the greatest of English physicists, The
Unseen Universe.
To prevent misapprehension, it may be well to add that
I do not regard objective manifestation under the form of
space as being peculiar to our present state. The psychic
body of which there is such abundant evidence is a proof to
the contrary. But probably in another and higher stage of
our progress to the disembodied purity of spirit the condi¬
tions of space and time will lose much of their fixity, and
though times and places will still exist for us as the forms
of consciousness, a thought may suffice to carry us hither
and thither, or rather to make the there to be here; and
from the present to the past or future, or rather to make
the then to be noiv. Only to spirit unincumbered by body,
to pure spirit as the trinity, not of spirit, soul, and body,
but of Being, Intelligence, and Force, transcendent, un¬
manifest, unrelated can we ascribe entire immunity from
those conditions to which we are subject, and which give us
time instead of eternity, place instead of state, and pheno¬
mena instead of being.
Although I have not embarrassed an already too obscure
and imperfect exposition by references to the other original
and universal form of phenomenal consciousness, Time, it
58
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Peb. 1, 1878.
will have been evident that many of the foregoing consider- !
ations are no less applicable to it than to the form of the j
external sense or space. But though this is so, even greater j
difficulty is commonly experienced in grasping the truth !
that time is not a condition of existence out of consciousness j
than the same truth about space. For time as the form of
the internal sense is the condition of all our representations,
internal as well as external, whereas space applies only to
the latter. But when it is attempted to put the difficulty |
into the form of an objection it will nearly always be found j
that the objector has not thoroughly mastered the distinction i
between the real and the empirical. Fbr ws the empiricalis jj
real. Mr. St. George Stock has more than once in the j
columns of The Spiritualist newspaper drawn a very acute j j
and fertile comparison between the phenomenal world, as
Berkeley represented it, and the so-called illusions to which j j
the senses of a person under mesmeric influence may be i j
made subject. Sensation is sensation, and is equally real
whether the ^occasion be normal -or abnormal, His speaking j j
of God as “ the Divine Mesmerist” is strictly appropriate to y
Berkeley’s conception. In like manner with regard to time, I [|
the notion of illusion must be altogether dismissed. Time j !
is empirically real, precisely because it is our condition of j j
experience. “But,” said Kant, “if I could intuite myself, j j
or be intuited by another being, without this condition of I !
sensibility, then those very determinations which we now | I
represent to ourselves as changes, would present to us a
knowledge in which the representation of time, and conse- j !
quently of change, would not appear.” You see here the j j
same Copernican reversal of the point of view which was j j
noticed in the case of Space. What we have to avoid is J j
the fallacy and the inconsistency of attributing anything j j
to experience apart from the condition of experience that ! j
it be experienced, or in other words, of attributing to any- j I
thing out of consciousness all the incidents of a product of j j
which consciousness is at least one factor. As Kant says j !
elsewhere, “ we cannot say ‘ all things are in time,’ because j j
in this conception of things in general we abstract and j j
make no mention of any sort of intuition of things. But ! I
this is the proper condition under which time belongs to j
our representation of objects. If we add the condition to j j
the conception, and say, ‘ all things, as phenomena, that ! j
is, objects of sensuous intuition, are in time,’ then the i
proposition has its sound objective validity and univer- j H
sality d priori.”
I wish I could abstract, within the reasonable limits, j |
already, I fear, transcended, of such a paper as this, the j.
wealth of demonstration with which Kant has illuminated ! I
this subject. If any of you wish to pursue it, I cannot
help you better than by referring you to the recent
masterly work, The Philosophy of Kant, by which Professor j j
Caird has conferred so signal a service upon metaphysical I j
students in this country. It is not of course to be sup- j
posed that Kant or his idealist successors have left j
unanswered the questions or unsolved the difficulties which L
at once present themselves when the phenomenal character j j
of the objective world is fairly apprehended. I hoped to j
have entered upon one of these in some account of the idea i |
or postulate of substance in the present paper. But I have | |
found it impossible to comprise within its limits even the j |
briefest intelligible abstract of the ontology of idealism, j |
Yet does its study well reward the earnest student. But | j
for us, some of whom are almost daily witnessing marvels
wholly incredible to the outside world, it is chiefly important ! !
that we should be able to conceive the conformity of these ! |
facts to truths far otherwise arrived at. It is primarily j j
essential that we should recognise “matter,” the universe j j
of sense, as mere manifestation of powers and agencies that j j
lie behind it, and which, since the order and evolution of j
phenomena show them to be intelligent, though automatic, j |
may well be called spirit, or the “soul of things.” This j
enables us to see that the power of spirit over “ matter ” is j
simply the power of spirit over itself. Then, by appre- j
bending the formal relativity of Space and Time to the ! j
faculties of cognition, we have only to suppose an exalta- | I
tion of the faculty to account for clairvoyance, for the | j
instantaneous “journeys” of the soul, and for its frequent j j
glimpses into what, to us, and to it, in its lower elevation, (j
is futurity. But it remains for us also to recognise the
phenomenal character of the inner consciousness, that
which is so confidently called self-consciousness. Herein,
it may be, metaphysics will throw some light, direct or
indirect, on that question of “ the intelligence ” which is
just now so sorely perplexing us. These are questions for
ourselves, and which it much behoves us to work out. For
the materialistic world, let it rejoice in its “common
sense,” despising metaphysics, as it despises Spiritualism,
and go its ways. It has as little of the culture of the
higher reason as it has of honest appreciation of evidence.
We have facts which not ignorance, however dense, not
prejudice, however illiberal, not contempt, however arro¬
gant, can in the least disturb, albeit we ourselves may be
harassed, discredited, and injured. But this is not enough.
Reason must descend upon those facts, and philosophy
must embrace experience. Then shall truth triumph in
the world, be whose will the honour, and whose must the
shame.
aramsponuence*
[Great freedom is given toeorrespondents,who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.]
MESMERISM.
Sir,—For the good of those who take an interest in mesmerism, and
its healing property, a few hints drawn from my experience may prove
useful.
Mesmerism shows that man possesses a supreme faculty, which con¬
stitutes his essence, and that he may transmit this faculty to his fellow-
creatures. Can there exist anything more interesting for man, who is
subject to all physical evils, than to find in his friend, his wife, or his
child, the power of relieving him, of bringing back life by curing him
of the illness with which he may be afflicted ?
It is easy for a mother to mesmerise her children ; for a husband to
mesmerise his wife. For this very little instruction is requisite.
Several ladies whom I have mesmerised have afterwards mesmerised
their children with the greatest effect.
Mesmerism is, in many instances, instinctive.
In the humble cottage, where the only science known is that of
cultivating the earth and training children to simple and useful
labour, the mother soothes by gentle frictions, made with a solicitude
which permits not the slightest distraction, the pains which disturb her
infant entrusted to her tenderness. She varies her movements and
caresses. She knows that by holding her child’s head she can soothe
and render supportable the anguish of teething. She knows that by
placing her hand on the little patient’s forehead, she can allay the fever
which burns his head.
Mesmerism is the principle of life, diffused by the Almighty through¬
out all nature ; that it is acting within us, beyond us, is denied by no
one who has taken the trouble of studying its phenomena. Every one
also knows—we might say, every one feels—that there exists within
us a hidden, even a divine power, by which we are animated, and which
it is within the province of our will to manifest or propagate.
It seems astonishing that one man, by the mere action of his will,
can produce a change in the health of another. But is not the reciprocal
influence of the mind and the body in man also astonishing ? A nervous
disease can elevate all his faculties ; a single idea can in an instant
destroy his whole system. How many examples there are of sudden
deaths being caused by excessive joy or by violent grief. A single
spark is sufficient to cause an explosion in a powder magazine. The
contact of different kinds of metals will often produce galvanic effects
the most inconceivable. A ray of light, on penetrating certain dark
places, may give a new existence to all the living objects they contain.
Man can, through his will, and the power of that faculty by which he
moves and breathes, exercise upon his fellow-creatures an influence.
This is the principle which has received the name of mesmerism.
In our days of civilisation and progress, mesmerists have a difficulty
in believing that a discovery so useful to health, to our well-being and
general knowledge, can have been so badly treated. Its followers have
been treated as the members of the Holy Inquisition treated Galileo
when they obliged him to swear that the earth does not move. It was
thus, too, Harvey was treated by his contemporaries, when they looked
upon him as a madman for having discovered the circulation of the
blood.
Such has been the fate of mesmerism, and such must be the first fate
of every great and valuable discovery. Every one creates a mental world
of his own, and imagines that everything should agree with his own
system. If new effects come before him, he invariably rejects them,
unless he can explain them by that system which exists only in his own
imagination ; and he decides concerning the possibility of things as if
he possessed a perfect knowledge of their real laws. Sometimes it
would really appear that truth is a light which pains all who behold it.
But a new generation rises up, and people become so accustomed to
what they at first despised that the truth triumphs at last, and is
acknowledged by all.
Mesmerism is the art of aiding nature in re-establishing equilibrium
in the body. It may succeed in this in two ways—either by strength¬
ening the conservative principle, so as to enable it to subdue the cause
of disorder, or by acting upon the cause itself.
To mesmerise is to direct one’s thought upon a patient with a
persistent will to relieve him. There then results a general movement
communicated from tlie meameriser to the mesmerised, in which the
former is principal, and is able to accelerate or to moderate the amount
of influence upon the latter, and, consequently, to strengthen the
conservative principle. Adolphe Didier.
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY?
Sir,—The correspondence upon astrology which has of late occupied
attention in The Spiritualist should have given some practical result. I
feel in some respects like Mr. John Rouse, and would like to see a palpable
demonstration that there is at least some truth in astrology. It seems to
me hardly wise, however, to expect experts to give gratis “ nativities ”
(is that the right word ?) of private individuals. Something which all
the readers can appreciate would be preferable. Mr. Rouse suggests
the approximate date when the Prince of Wales will ascend the throne,
&c. I think this is the kind of thing to use as a test; but should the
Prince be considered a topic too near home for a prudent trial of skill,
and the event thought to require too much waiting for for verification,
let us go a little abroad to some other distinguished personage, and to
some extent, if possible, in the near future. What could be better for
example than some feature of the great war now in progress? I submit this
deferentially, and hope such a reasonable suggestion as that made by
Mr. Rouse will not be quite ignored. Asteroid.
Edinburgh, Jan. 22nd, 1878.
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—I venture to send a few remarks regarding a seance^ at which I
had the privilege to be present, at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s house, on
Saturday evening last. Mr. Eglinton was the medium, and the circle
comprised eight in all. As all were highly mediumistic, the results of
the sitting were said to be unusually satisfactory. I have not attended
sufficient meetings to be as good a judge on that point as my companions,
they having sat together repeatedly.
Your space being valuable, 1 am obliged to be brief in my comments,
which you will readily excuse.
Upon sitting together round a table, with a very small flame of gas
for illumination, we speedily found ourselves in the dark, the spirits
having put out the gas, and, happily, properly turned it off. They
stated, through “ Joey,” the leader of the proceedings, that they did
this, as manifestations were desired to be shown that rendered darkness
imperative. No musical instrument being provided, “ Joey ” apprised
us of his intention of making one for himself, and thereupon a musical
box floated about the room, now inside, then apparently outside in the
passage, then over our heads, giving forth most musical and liquid tones,
far excelling any I have ever heard from such an instrument. It was
a solid musical box, for it was placed upon my head, and I was made
aware that the wood of which it was made was hard. A light then
appeared, and, to our astonishment, was floated about for the inspection
of every one present, being composed of luminous letters, forming the
name “Elizabeth,” intending to intimate the approach of a spirit well
known to Mrs. Gregory and myself during her earth life.
The name, which was five inches in length, each letter an inch in
height, was in Roman characters, as if cut by a professional type-manu- i
facturer out of starlight; it was enclosed in a sort of case, which j
concealed it from view except when seen sideways; but was only read- j,,
able when placed, as letters should be, directly opposite to the eyes. H j
This, disappearing, gave place to an illuminated star, produced I |
evidently in a similar manner—a white, flat, opaque light, cut clear at i j
the edges in distinct points; in fact, in appearance, a transparency in (
the shape of an elongated star, rather than a star itself.
The star gave the light of a planet; the letters shone with light of i) j
their own: a great distinction, as those who have looked through (
glasses at the heavenly bodies are well aware. This, after showing j
itself to all sufficiently, floated away to the far end of the room, and In
vanished. i) |
Following upon this, from high up in the corner of the room, sailed j) I
in, as clouds move, a dim light, increasing as it advanced, and j(j
developing into a head, illuminated by a light, held in two unmistake- nj
able hands. The medium was next but one to me at the table, and his j;j
attention was directed to this apparition, which certainly did not ju
emanate from him, or from the quarter of the room in which he sat: it \ j
approached and receded like a coloured shade from a magic lantern,
but with this difference, it was undoubtedly alive, and most clearly a (j
spirit-form, gradually developing itself from coloured, illuminated if
vapour, into apparently living flesh and blood. It disappeared, and a )j
change of places being requested, the gas was re-lit till we were again (j
reseated, when it was again extinguished.
We sat in a semi-circle, Mr. Eglinton reclining, in our presence,
upon a sofa close to us. Immediately we heard a movement behind the \ i
curtains close to the sofa upon which the medium lay.
Mr. Eglinton insisting that he heard somebody in the inner room, j (j
which the curtains concealed, requested a light, and made others search j (i
with him for the intruder. The search being fruitless, we were again |/j
in darkness, and the voice of “ Joey” behind the curtain, complained j(|
“ that he could not enter the room without being taken for a burglar.” j j
The medium answered him, and the contrast of their voices was marked )j
in its distinctiveness. After a few brief words the illuminated head re- (j
appeared high up in the curtains and, floating downwards, steadily hi
approached me. Most gradually it came nearer and nearer ; I saw the !)!
features as distinctly as I could have wished, as they were lit up by a m
veiled pale light, which he carried in his hands, high upon his IJj
breast; it was shrouded by many folds of luminous semi-transparent j)i
material, soft and translucid like solidified steam. The top of the head jU
was veiled, the face, uncovered, bore small dark whiskers and a dark j
moustache. The whole figure appeared like a young man in the perfec- ) |
tion of manhood, and of very powerful build; the flesh tints were clearly | (j
visible of his living, breathing head. ; i
Expecting, as is usual in such manifestations, a resemblance to the
medium, I noticed the utter contrast between the Grecian nose of the
spirit head and the Roman feature owned by Mr. Eglinton; there was
not the faintest resemblance between them.
Before I could clearly see I thought the form might be that of a
brother long since departed, but the spirit denied at once relationship,
! calling himself “ Ernest,” and breathing into my face two words that
had great meaning to me. He then took his right hand from the mass
i of illuminated material that he held, and solemnly placed it upon my
head, blessing me. I felt a warm living hand. My face was flooded by
I the light he bore, as he leant over me ; and I found the strange cloud of
j spirit robe in which his light was buried, was fragrant with the cool
scent of many flowers, giving forth the most delicious odours. Scent,
j when used by human beings, is warmed by the natural heat of the body.
This scent was cool and fresh like summer air wafted over roses.
Our kind visitor was strange to me ; he recalled, upon close inspection,
no one I had ever seen before. Leaving me he went to his medium upon
the sofa, bent over him, and talked with him, and whilst they conversed,
the pale face of Mr. Eglinton and his white shirt front were clearly
visible by the light that the figure held. Then this wonderful being
rose upwards higher and higher, and, bidding us good-bye, sank rapidly
downwards, dispersing itself as steam becomes invisible, and disappeared
through or into the floor of the room.
Again we were allowed to be in light. “ Daisy,” a spirit, took pos¬
session of Mr. Eglinton, now entranced, and made him walk rapidly up
and down the room, “ to gather power,” as she said; Mr. Eglinton
assuming the character of “ Daisy,” who was making use of his voice
I and bodily organs.
I After a while the medium retired behind the curtains before-men¬
tioned, more power being required (this only to be obtained by a closer
I presence betwixt the spirits and their mediums), and immediately, in
i the imperfect light, a figure appeared approaching me ; it was suggested
! that it was my brother, and he bowed in acknowledgment, but I could
i not see sufficiently clearly, and the power was not sufficient to enable
i him to come nearer to me. The figure seemed to glide backwards and
| forwards rather than to walk ; he disappeared, much to my regret, and
I another, utterly unlike in figure and appearance, immediately took his
! place, bowing low to us all, and evidently bent upon showing us the
| brilliant that adorned his veiled head, turban-wise, which flashed clearly
in the twilight in which we sat. He in turn retired, and then the
figure of the “Elizabeth” before-mentioned appeared close to Mrs.
Gregory, first embracing her, then kneeling to her, and mentioning,
| unheard by us, the name of a friend whose presence with us she
desired. Her coming had been a second time heralded by the floating
111 name in starlight characters; the spirit was good enough to make an
||| inclination of recognition to me, and then retired; but, alas ! the light
m was so feeble that I could not discern the face of my friend, but saw
) clearly the apparent figure that resembled her earthly shape. A figure
jjj- then drew aside the curtains, and showed itself side by side with Mr.
Eglinton, and finally the deep voice of “ Ernest ” gave us some parting
remarks, and prayed for a blessing for us all.. “Joey” likewise said
many kind words, and thus this wonderful seance came to a close.
During the course of the evening many warm (some cold, so I heard)
hands caressed the company, showing especial attention to a youth of
fourteen, who greatly attracted them.
I write this account in gratitude to the spirits of the circle who
announced that as I was a stranger at their sittings they should devote
themselves to convincing me of the reality of these materialisations of
spirit form ; and as I have seen what I so long have desired to see—a
form—gradually developed and as gradually dissipated, and also have
been made sensible of the presence of a spirit-form by sight, touch,
smell and hearing, I hope you will not prevent my adding this grateful
testimony to that of the many witnesses who have recorded similar
marvels. George M. Sutherland.
117, Sloane-street, London, January 28th, 1878,
A CRITICISM.
Sir,—In the present divided state of opinion among Spiritualists,
perhaps few more useful services can be rendered than a critical dis¬
section of the evidence published from time to time in your columns of
spirit presence or identity. In a large proportion of these accounts I
have noticed, when they are given with proper detail, some outri or
perplexing circumstance. Such features are overlooked on a cursory
perusal by minds whose suspicions are not already aroused, and the
possible significance of them is lost, notwithstanding the conscientious
fidelity to fact which their recital evidences on the part of the narrator.
A fortnight ago I called attention to a very instructive case communi¬
cated by Mr. Carson, who put it forward expressly as a test case, de¬
monstrative of the presence of a particular spirit; whereas it seemed
to me, for reasons derived from Mr. Carson’s own narrative, to be
especially instructive, from the very opposite point of view. Now let
me shortly advert to the letter of “X” in your number this week.
(1) The original communication about the infected and cursed lounge
was “ some months since.” The spirit is supposed to have identified
itself “to-day, while reading of the death of a dear old friend” (Dr.
Carrol Dunham, of New York, presumably, from the context, though
not especially said to be, the spirit in question). When was the death ?
Apparently “X” was reading the news of it some months after the
spirit communication; and the inference is that the death itself was
more recent than the latter. In that case either Dr. Dunham was alive
in the flesh when his spirit gave the warning “ some months since,” or
the implied claim “ to-day ” on the part of the voice that it came from
Dr. Dunham’s spirit was false, or Dr. Dunham’s spirit was deceiving
“ X ” as to its identity with the spirit communicating some months since.
(2) “ X ” not unnaturally reproached the spirit of “ some months since ”
with not giving him, earlier information of the danger. Did man or
Feb. 1, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
59
60
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 1, 1878.
spirit ever make a more absurd reply ? “ As a rule we are not allowed
to interfere with your reason and intelligence, &c.,” this reply coming
upon, and connecting itself with, the previous reproach of the spirit, at
the outset of the conversation, that “ X ” had exercised “ so little judg¬
ment ” (in this matter of sitting on the lounge), t when G-od had given
him reason to guide him.” How on earth was “X” to have exercised
“judgment” in reference to a fact of which he was utterly ignorant?
Truly we Spiritualists are indulgent to spirits in the matter of logic and
common sense ; for if “ X ” had been thus reproached by a friend in the
flesh, who had also thus excused himself for past neglect, he would both
have remonstrated at the approach, and would have failed to recognise
the sufficiency of the excuse. It is no part of my present plan to pro¬
pound or insist upon alternative theories, but solely to call attention to
perplexing and suggestive inconsistencies with the belief of popular
Spiritualism. C. C. Massey.
Temple, January 25th, 1877.
MR. MORSE’S REMOVAL TO DERBY.
Sir,—Permit me to request my friends, through the columns of The
Spiritualist, to kindly direct all future correspondence to me at my
new address, as under. I also desire to state that it is my intention to
act as agent for spiritual literature, native and foreign, thus supplying
a want in the Midland Counties. J. J. Morse.
Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby, Jan. 30, 1878.
“ SPIRITUALISM WITHOUT SPIRITS.”
Sir,—The acute and judicious observations in Mr.. White’s
“ Spiritualism without Spirits,” are being gradually verified as Dr.
Wyld goes on expounding his theories. He already begins to feel
“ slight difficulty” in defending the speculative assertions which he puts
forward so confidently as ascertained facts. He has in several ways
already altered things. He has let in some spirits, and he has taken a
story off his diagram, thus conferring on Spiritualists, in common with
the rest of mankind, the incalculable benefit of placing the source of
intelligence one-fourth nearer us than it used to be.
He still, however, fails to see that a theory constructed thirty-nine
years ago, though suited to the knowledge of that time, is an old curio¬
sity now, and nothing more. Were it not that other marvellous things
abound in Dr. Wyld’s papers, we should feel considerably astonished
at his proposal to “ rescue modern Spiritualism from the dangers of a
superstitious idolatry” with such a dilapidated instrument.
Scrutator’s queries, and possibly the “ Seeress of Prevorst ”—which
Spiritualists will not be surprised to find Dr. Wyld had “ read for the
first time last week ”—appear to have slightly shaken his confidence in
achieving the benevolent purpose of “ rescuing modern Spiritualism ”
by the unaided use of his favourite. He finds he has need of a fulcrum
for his worm-eaten lever, and he makes one of loose sand from
Leviticus:—
Even ministers they hae been kenn’d
In holy rapture;
Arousing which at times to vend
An’ nail't wi’ Scripture.
In his letter last week he deals with three factors of numerous
“ potentialities electro-biology, “ the soul of a man possessing a
dominant idea,” and Bella Tilley’s diagnostics.
Were any electro-biologist, with a dominant idea, and less skilled in
her management than Dr. Wyld, to undertake the superintendence of
her diagnoses, there is little doubt that any number of “wiseacres”
might be scared away, and all the diseases that flesh is heir to, be
discovered in a perfectly healthy person.
Anatomical transpositions, too, in great variety, might be discovered,
quite as interesting as that by which Thersites accounted for the stu¬
pidity of Ajax.
“ The clairvoyante is, in her normal condition, unconscious of her
clairvoyance.”
Either Dr. Wyld attaches an unusual meaning to the word u clair¬
voyance,” or the above statement is very unaccountable from one who -
had read the “ Seeress of Prevorst ” so recently. If there is one thing
more striking than another in the experience of that remarkable woman,
it is her power of looking into both worlds at once, and seeing spirit
men and women mingling with incarnate men and women, and
obscuring each other from her view, as the spirit or the man stood
nearest.
“ I see them at various times by day and night, whether I am alone
or in company. I am perfectly awake at the time, and am not sensible
of any circumstances or sensation that calls them up. I see them more
clearly by sun or moonlight than in the dark; but whether I could see
them in absolute darkness I do not know. If any object comes
between me and them they are hidden from me. I cannot see them
with closed eyes. They appear to me like a thin cloud that one could
see through, which, however, I cannot do. Their gait is like the gait of
the living, only that the better spirits seem to float, and the evil ones
tread heavier, so that their footsteps may sometimes be heard, not by
me alone, but by those who are with me.”
The experience of Madame H  is of the same nature as that of
many living persons who are very well known to Spiritualists, and the
testimony of such gifted men and women, everywhere and always, is to
the same effect, and such evidence demands more respectful attention
from psychologists than do the most brilliant speculations of the best
intellect, if to that be not superadded the gift of clairvoyance.
This gift does not seem to be very highly esteemed, however, by Dr.
Wyld, and he rather throws cold water on mediums in general. We
know that the Psychological Society has a law against seeking know¬
ledge where it is most likely to be found, and Dr. Wyld may find those
gifted people have the habit of bringing forward several facts which have
no business to exist, and which, to the “ True Psychologist,” are as
111 great a nuisance as are the trees in Portland quarries to the
Mi “ Reconciler of Geology and Genesis.”
|) | Dr. Wyld “ strongly dissents from the statement of M.A., Oxon,
i (i that ‘ a belief in our intercourse with the spirits of the departed is the
|| cardinal doctrine of our faith—the heart and corner-stone of Spirit-
|J j ualism.’’’ I regret that in his admirable paper, in your last number,
| (i ‘‘ M.A., Oxon,” has conceded rather too much to Mr. Massey, and has
II removed this “central fact” to a position more “peripheral” than it
) | ought in the meantime to occupy; for though it is quite true that in the
| j | universal conception of Spiritualism it is only one of ‘the phenomena or
I attributes thereof, yet to us who are now living here, and groping about
|)| for the next comfortable resting-place in our journey, it is a much
( better “ centre ” than that which Dr. Wyld would put in its place. Dr.
j|j Wyld’s “ conviction” that he is “ a spirit,” is not quite so safe-looking
i)j a corner-stone as M.A. Oxon’s knowledge of that fact, and
jjj of some of its consequences. “I am a spirit, and a part
j|; of the great central spirit,” may be true. I believe it
jjj is, and it may be very useful to us, some millions of ages hence,
jjj when that great idea, or some of its infinite meanings may be
1 grasped by our probably improved mental capabilities ; but just at the
j j j present time we require to have such large ideas cut up small, and such
i j i little morsels administered as our present mental powers can from time to
j | j time assimilate. It is confessedly beyond our power to arrive at any know-
j j j ledge of our ultimate destiny. The next immediate stage in our progress
j j! is, just now, the question of greatest importance to us, and he who can
|| tell us most about that shall be our “cardinal doctor” and “head
j|| centre.” R. Hannah.
j SPIRITUAL MEETINGS AT THE EAST-END.
jj Sir,—The farewell tea and social meeting, at 15, St. Peter’s-road,
ji Mile-end, will be held on Sunday, Feb. 3rd. Tea at 5 p.m. Social
|i meeting to commence at 7 o’clock. Several trance mediums and other
j j speakers are expected. Several subscriptions have been received in
j j answer to the appeal published last week, for which we return our best
) j thanks, and trust that other friends will respond, so as to make up the
jj further sum of .£10 required by the 8th of February, that the list may
jl be dosed, and published next week. E. W. Wallis.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
j j INQUIRERS’ SEANCE.
jj On Wednesday, the 23rd January, at 38, Great Russell-street,
j Bloomsbury, Mr. Eglinton was the medium. He was secured in the
j j usual way, with his hands behind his back, by two strangers, one of
Ij whom had never attended any seance before. The fastenings were
j examined by several others, both before and after the seance, and were
l j by them declared to be intact at the close. The medium sat within the
I doors of the cabinet with the whole of his legs and feet projecting
Jj beyond the curtains, which concealed the rest of his person. “Joey”
I j kept up an animated conversation with us at intervals. The gas was
I j turned on enough to enable us to recognise one another, and to see
[j plainly all that occurred. The Oxford chimes, which rested on the
i j medium’s knees, in full view, were played on repeatedly, without any
i j visible agency. They were also taken into the cabinet, rather violently,
j j and there played upon and banged about in a very vigorous manner.
A book about eight inches square, with a thick cover, was placed on the
medium’s knees, with the back towards him. The whole of the book,
except the side resting on his knees, was distinctly visible to different
j members of the circle. Under these circumstances the cover, and one
or two leaves, were opened to the extent of three or four inches several
times.
Several members of the circle were invited to shake hands with
j “ Joey,” inserting their hands between the curtains for the purpose, and
j then to enter the cabinet immediately and examine the medium. They
found him, to all appearance, bound as at first, and observed that his
hands were hot and moist, whereas “ Joey’s,” which felt in every respect
exactly like a hand, was cold and dry. The names “ William Camp¬
bell” and “Mattie ” were spelt out by raps, the alphabet being repeated
by myself. The former was recognised as that of a departed friend by a
Mr. Campbell, who was present, and who declared that he believed the
medium could not possibly have known anything about him. The
j latter was the Christian name of a lady present. Mr. Eglinton, how-
j ever, after the seance, volunteered the information that he was previously
acquainted with the fact. A short message to the circle was written in
j pencil on a chest of paper placed on the medium’s knee, and held there
by Mr. Campbell. What appeared to be a hand was also shown several
times. All the persons present seemed satisfied with the tests, and
i that what had occurred was not to be accounted for by any conjuring or
materialistic hypothesis. A. Joy,
Member of Seance Committee, in Charge.
j The Hon. A. Aksakof writes to us from St. Petersburg that he
has resolved not to discontinue the publication of bis German Spirit¬
ualistic periodical, Psychic Studies, Leipzig.
jjj ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS,
j <! Daring the past few months, several cases have occurred of persons trying
! (I to break through some of the established and necessary rules of journalism, to
Mi force their communications into these pages, and, after unavailing remon-
i j l strance, they were firmly dealt with. If such persons had to deal with weak
j < i management, an efficiently conducted newspaper in connection with Spirit-
j (j ualism could not exist, so public feeling should, in the interests of the move-
i)i ment, support the discouragement of tendencies to anarchy,
jjj E. M. (Paris).—We mislaid your address, which is not contained in your
Mi letter just received, so have been cut off from communication with you.
Feb. 1, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book censists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Bddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiratu n-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. 0. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by WiRiam Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationsliip
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5a
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 15s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents : The
Anti-Supornaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
leVing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens’ these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals [were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the nudiumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J; M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUYOLENOE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. BuckniR and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, MD., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6<L
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. 6<L
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 8s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ IL „ . . • .76
The Seer. „ III. „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. . „ . . • .76
The Thinker. ,, V.. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .86
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . • .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . • .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence .. . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . , . 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
S d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . , . , 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieitualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . _ 5 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China ito India (400 A.n. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge.D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind!; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . , IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description oj Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
• Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not.
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a, priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic jfretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be ■
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W, H, Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 /or Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6d., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed^ information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors, or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,’’
nnHE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
1 describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 1, 1878,
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW • Tp* TRELVEMT' DISEA;SE ^ ANDv* PRE-,
M ATTIRE r DEATHS BY NATURAL MEANS.jtMWM
LORD BEACONSFIELD ■ jnstly^stated the5other;
day that “ the-health of the people is really the foundation j
upon which.all their happiness and power as-'a State depend.”/
For the most practical mode of preventing desedse and premature
death, see.a largA Illustrated 'Sheet given witlAeacli-bottle‘of!
UNO’S fFRUIT ‘ SALT. The information is'HnyalUable.^ As ae
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLINGjtand'INYIGO-1
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxatlvevand tonic'in thef
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUITi’SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best./preventive" and cure‘for,*
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eru£>tlOrts$'-Impure%Blood,>
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, FeversJFeyerishness,, Feverish,'
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of^ApiSetite.liSournessrof'the ,,
{Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting,.thirst, &c., and to remove the -
effects of errors of eating and drinkingT- gMi
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Ainohgst^the ’ many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S .FRUIT SALT.'V Comparatively-unknown
some year,or,f so ago, this preparation, which is ipade
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. ’ The great merit which is claimed for it is
that' it»keeps the bloo^ 'pure andthe .system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away Ahe^jjrouhdwprk of mala¬
rious diseases^so-cbmmon to^ tbwhSj,and. districts which
are ill-drained.1'l'ThereiIS‘-littiefdoubtTibutj.tliat;the!!rtime,
will eventually come.when fevers', and,dipqases resulting
from poisoned blood will be "considered ■-i,asr .offences
against the well-being ,of communitiesat’ large;; but we
will,' in all proto^ility^’me somevwliile, yet before^it,
shall have arrived atlsuch a pitch of sanitary perfection^
Meanwhile,-weJ’cannot ‘ withhold a -welcome -to 'any
specific whichr-may/prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health." The simpler-the better, so long only as it is
effectual. tENQ’S . FRUIT SALT has been , found an
excellent corrective to the'digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South'America, has a largely
increasing-sale.v-It,isjjbqtter by,far than.“nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous" community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877. - . .
E
WHATfr EVERYBODY WANTS TO
w I KNOW. ,
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
“ Since I have used END’S FRUIT SALT-night-and
motpiing, my headaches, &c., haye left me’,- and this after
suffering for above twenty.years."* You'shbuld-niakq this
fact well known.” ,
F^NO’S FRUIT SALT!— A* Lady writes : —
“ Everything, medicirie“br fbq&j^.ep^d. to act properly for
at leastithree mopth^lbeforb-I.commehced, taking it ; the
* little food I c’ould take' gWefally piiriishbd''m6‘ of Returned.'
My life was one of. great* suffering) so' that ‘Itmdstrhave
succumbed before long.’.' 9
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE ; OF
gNO’S FRUIT SALT,
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OR INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless-
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least bf its.'
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
ih wh^chi1 it relieves the*" system* of-effete-or poisonous matter;*
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages Over,
trait "is that it cah be - always at band’when required, tits
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern’’
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. • It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
p raise.
. . END’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured.' It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most,potent form.
Instead.of being.lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the m|liest degree,’ invigorating;-Its effect in relieving thirst,
givih#tone to the .system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
NO’S FRUIT r-SALT (one of Nature’s own
product^) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable.means of keeping the .blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovfei'ed.'-^ As-a~means of preserving - and restoring"
health, it is unequalled ; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,-
refreshing and invigorating -beverage. After .a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used,-! have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
[ the, body healthy'were universally known; not.-a house-
hold in the land would " he-* without' it*nor*-a single
^ fravelling trunk or'portmanteau but would ’ contain it.— '
: J.'C.’Eno.- -. , ; - - .
E
ENO’S'FRUIT SALT.—“T am very mucli pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely;cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY- OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion,’ frequently called [or mistaken for) Heart Disease :—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I-never anticipated when I boughtit. I bad suffered more
or .less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
hut very,.badly during the last few years.',’ The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangeroiis, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation; suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel, it a duty to state the above facts, of
wnicll you can make whatever use you please, —I am, ■
dear sir," yeurs respectfully, ■ “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. so; 1877.—lo) York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see-the
* Capsule is marked:,“ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” . Without it;
you have been imposed on by; a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—ENQ-’s. Fruit-Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
. Sold.by all Chemists.; Price 2s. Od. and 4s. Od.*
(Sole Agent for >»m-PHARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE DE
LA'PAIX. -
i Just Published, > y
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown’8vo, richly gilt#
. THE;;-LAZY, L'AYS .
^.ND-PRO S E .IM AGIN IN GS,
-AbY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,y
; An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book’ of Poetical and Prose) *
V? ; Writing’s, Grave antF Gav.tt yt •
< The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence'.Claxtoh and the
Author.' ...
' 1 'Contents. .
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose^Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The j3ong,of the Newspaper
* Editor.—3. .The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The.Castle.—6. The
. Lay of thelFat.Man.—6. The Poetry-of Science.—7t How .Hadji;
! A1 Shacabac was .Photographed, (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
ia ‘gefittemam^who. visited*London bn business connected with a
J Turkish»Lpansto /All > Mustapha Ben .Buekram, Chief.o£ the Col-
ilege'bfrHd'frling'Dervish'es at Constantinople.)—8.' The Lay of the
: Broad-'Brimmed*Hat.—9. St.^Bride’s Bay,—10. The Lay. of* the
MarketJj!ar(lener.—ll.- “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Ravenr
—13f*Matenali|tic“;Religion.—13. The Lay ofthePhiotqgrapher.—
14.'How'tb Double^.the Utility of the' Printing Press.—15. The
Sbng'of the Mbtlier-in-Law,—16.1 Wirbel-bewegung.—Vi.' “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19.-The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21.'A Vision.—22; “Under the LimeS.”—23.'The
Angel of Silence.
Part,2.—The Wobblejgw, Ballads; by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
. 24. The Public Analyst.—25; General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26.' The Rifle ;Corp's.-^27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The'July
-Bug.—29. The Converted Carman,
Opinions of the Press.
. , . - From, The Morning ~Post.
Th&tMorning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly aT'cclumn^Wng,’ says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of tlffe pastconsequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enj oy.an innocent laugh- Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity.-. . -. The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his ’adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechap el is quite
one of the funniest things;thaflias .been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it. a-welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.”’ The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads:—“No;one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, '' with an appreciably successful result;” I
- From The Court Journal. 7-
All are oj, marked, ability.... Occasionally we flndwerse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.” ■ ■ ;
From The Graphic. ]
“Those who can appreciate’genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. ’Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (88, Great
Russell-street). '■ Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny,.and ill, spine, of the latter there is a.vein of, genial satire
whicli adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is'capital, if rather severe, and so is TheLayofthe Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he'
went,to be photographed.” ,
• From Public Opinion, ■ -
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.; Some of tile metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to, be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can makei jokes with success.; . . To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-hook, we commend ThfSjazy Lays." ■
, ’From,'The Bookseller.
“An odd hut most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some1 in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not- ungracefulipen. The vein of
humour which permeates thefn is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.” '
, From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,*
and the imprint bears that the-work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m.'5877 (Torquemada) ; :a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ .WeL believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
/ - From The British Journal of Photography. .
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some, of which
are in verse and‘others in-prose* some scientific, othfers social, hut
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined of in bad taste.”
, • From The Dublin University Magazine,
“ How Hadji’Al’Shacabac. an-amiable Turk, was photographed,*
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies whicn are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
; “ In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
thereis a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle,
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome hook...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.” ,
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself, .. . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile-member of the order.”
- From The Liverptol Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely hound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a- gift-book ele’gant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true’spirit "Of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.” ’ ’ • *
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume.from .the versatile pen of Mr.'W- H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to' the London and provincial press, and
editor .of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind ug of the Ingo\dsby Legend's. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and' some 'of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would pot haye been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter, poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and. poetic feeling whicli will make them accept¬
able to most readers.” ,
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The’ finest"thing in the hook is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacahae was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to'our pot too ex¬
tensive comic literature,, The story, is one,'of which extracts
would pot give aii adequate idea’; it Us intensely humorous,...
Those yUio wish to obtain’ a handsome gift^bdok of an amusing
nature,, will Qud wliat the^ want; in Thc'Lazy Lays."
„ •, -, From The Bristol Daily Post.
’ “A curious collection of verses “and prose essays of unequal
merit.-... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s of L: E. L.’s produfetioris.”
From The Kensington News! tf
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood,- Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much goo'd’ in their day and
; generation as the authors of the most serious works.-. The Lays
tare,always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
'never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
"It .is,in itself a work of itself—original, and a east of its
authbFsimind.a It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
livelyt imaginings ’ and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness^and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
thatlnSf heFeadSnahy times over.. .The get-up of the hook is
very handsome.”
From The'Folkestone News.
“A number of cl,ever-sketehes^and poems, among the latter
being, a series of papers' entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in- the’columns of this * paper a short time ago,
and which!l'created * such a" jww«’~at» the time.” [N.B.'An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor1 and Corporation of Folkestone to theiburlesgues m the
Wobblejaw BaUaas,1’ but- the'members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business J The Mayor said that he
did not, mind them.\ ..It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is hound in cldtli richly gUt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
£t W. Hi Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry ; at Edinburgh University,,!
. Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke, of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS...
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process > for . Causing Mesmeric - Sleep — The-Sleep or Mesmeric
State-Alt Occurs : Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena’ of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
■ CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
i State ot Commands Given in the Sleep.
• CHAPTER III : —Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
' Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influeilce.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision-Duration of Sleep, etc.. Pre¬
dicted—Predictidn of-Changes in the Health or State of the Se,er—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
; .CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism,Electro-Biology,Electro-Psychology
; and Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
; Control Exercised by the" Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII':—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s JExtatics—Visions of the S iiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—^Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—^Treatment of Insan-
I ity. Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—^Difficulties of the Sutneet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—Phenomena Observed in the: Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
; State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
ICases—Dr. Darling’s (Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Oases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerhm in the Sleep .
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Oases—^Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Oases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C,
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holhom,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Alien, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
