&X.5) jo i;-PtXi/ o^ 'Mjiy cB.oLoq i c a1 .ix ^diXX^X- ;
m (inat §nfaia*
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places':—LONDON :' n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and yj Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. * FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via . della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraig, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Rivi^a di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale.- LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. 1 MELBOURNE : 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs, ifcelly & Co. NE.W. YORK :’Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street $: Si?fth-ayenue. BOSTON, U.S.: g,.Moptgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “-Religio-Philpsophical Journal ”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S. i 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO Tsig, Kearney street. • PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010,, Seventh-street, . .* '
No. 273.—(VOL. XL—No. 20.) : LONDON : FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1877. Publishfed Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents*
<l The Soul and Future Life.” « By Epes Sargent... ... 229
Review,:—Soul, and How It Found Me. By Edward
. Maitland ...  ; ... v.. ... ... ...■ ... ... ... 230
Speculations about' Reincarnation Problem. By J. T.
■ Hartley ;.. ...       232
British National Association of Spiritualists:—Inquirers’
' Seances  •„.• ...   ... ... ... ... ... ... 233
A Grievance Rectified ... ... ~' 233
The Superiority of -Experiment to Controversy  ... 234
Dr. Slade in Berlin... ,...  1 .‘..r,...* ... ...  .’-234
The Spirit-Land. By Baboo Peary Chand Mittra  ..; 235
The National Association of SpirtuaHsts :■—Soiree Mu-
si&fe ,’and an Address by-Miv’Calder—Fortnightly
Meetings—Meeting of the Council ... ... ... ... ... 23S
Mr. and Mrs. Bliss... ...     ... ,...   237/
Poetry:—Alone  ...    v.. ,... 7... ...  -238
Correspondence:—What Truth is there in Astrology?—
Provincial Notes, No. V.—An Arbitrary Editor of
Tombstone Literature and the Late William Daven-
bortj |     ... ... *... ... 238
The Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism :—
Fortheoming Meetings—Meeting of the Council 240
Answers.toGorrespondents    ... ...  240
Paragraphs:—The Ghost of Mohammed, 233 ; A Difficult
Problem, 234; Mr. Williams’ Neances, 234; Miss Kis-.
lirigbury’sDeparture from America, 234Spiritualism
in Holland, 235; Brixton Psychological Society, 235 ;
Spiritualism at Wandsworth, 237; Birth... 240
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
NEW MEMBERS.
Subscriptions paid before the,end of the year by members
elected after this date will clear them up to the end of the year
1878. I
EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE.
CVietirmcwi—Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.Tel.E.
The Research Committee having expended the sums en¬
trusted to them, will be glad to receive subscriptions towards
the objects they have in view.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSIONS.
These discussions Will be continued on the second and
fourth Mondays in each month till further notice.
W.Stainton-Moses, M.A., Hm. Sec. of Committee..
SEANCES FOR ENQUIRERS.
• Seances for Enquirers are held at 38, Great Russell-street,
at 8 p.m., every Wednesday. Medium, Mr. Eglinton. En¬
quirers admitted by free tickets on the recommendation of
a member, or by personal application to the secretary. Mem¬
bers, with one friend, Is. for each person. Number limited
to twelve.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN, ]
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
   Willesden, N.W.   
.Just published, price 7s. 6d; •
The soul, and how it found me ;
being a narrative of. phenomena connected with the
production of England and Islam, by Edward Maitland.
■ . Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Just published, price 4d.
Clairvoyance, by Adolphe Dialer. Tb
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
«THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
established in 1869,
rpRE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
< s6 has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
TheUontributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the jpresent time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause)'; Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;\His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.:. Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court Df Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association'of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia):' Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St..Stanislas (St: Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelina Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purd6n,M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. 'J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.'
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna)Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J.' N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles !(United States):' Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-ohurchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7; Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, LindenstrasSe. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Boeca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt E’rznerzqg. 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. ' Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Roston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Sfiligio-PhilosopMcal Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S. : 225, Unibu-street. San/Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. - Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street. .0 ;
All communications on the business ot'The Spiritualist
should be addressed, to W. H. Harrison. 'News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Rusaell-silrlet,'London, W.O. ,
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, Cardiff, Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
INSPIRATIONAL ADDRESS.
Mr. J. W. Colville gives an Inspirational Address gratis at
38, Great Russell-street, at 4 p.m., every Saturday. Subject
chosen by the audience. Questions invited. A poem, also on
a subject chosen by the audience, at the close. Admisssion
free.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea"a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of. the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may he
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislinghury, 38. Great Russell-street, W.O.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
A. JOY, Acting Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the . use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules' of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
ANGHAM HALL, 43, Great Portland-street,
London. W. J. COLVILLE delivers an Inspirational
Oration followed by an Impromptu Poem (subjects chosen by
the audience), on Mondays at 8 p.m. Admission free to
balcony. Reserved, seats 2s.; unreserved; Is.
LANGHAM HALL,
43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,. W.
READINGS AND RECITALS
By
MISS ELLA DIETZ & MR. FRANK DIETZ,
On Friday, November 30th, 1877, at Eight’ o’clock.
Tickets, 3s., 2s„ and Is.; to be had at Langham Hall, or of
Mr. Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, S.W.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the Duke’s Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists 1 and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one andean easily ho worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms :—18c, Liverpool Street, London, E.b.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the- art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, Ac., &c.; .
post free, seven stamps.  .
HE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.O.,
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Price1 Is. - .
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29, & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C]
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand: On Current Aocbunts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.. -
The Bank imdertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills-, of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening. .
A Pamphlet with full particulars, maybe had on application..
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 16, 1877.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President,
Alex. Calderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Park field, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, BernardrViUas, upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tcl.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.'W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 82, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, O. C., Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-bulldings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers. E. D., Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev.N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, IS, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P-, Derby House,. Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-vilia. Cairns-rd.. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Harcom't Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
o. w •
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Kichmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.8. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendlnning. A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hougiiton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park. S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 18, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Str'awbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge.Mrs. G. N.. 84. Re.lcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
W hite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. BJ M.A., LL.M., careof A. Calder, Esq,, 1, Hereford-
square,'West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss B., 1, The Elms, St. Joim’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withali, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J, H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Menders.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgfenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rasslm Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Blschofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq,, Hammonton, Atlantic CO.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A,
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimllle, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Dltson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. j. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. GledstaneSjEsq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2,Rue de Rocrol, Paris.
Rev. SamueLWatson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston, U.S.A.
M, d« Bftssompierroi 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etter beck, Brussel
M, A, Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Unlon, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de’Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D..Union Springs, Cayuga Co..New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1'Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. G’Sullivan, Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue-Sf. Honore, Paris,
W. S- Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah. U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzher Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
■ J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Monlgomeryrplace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. BalMck, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratll, Modling,. 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa,
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—-Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L'Union Spirits etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association Of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad'Espirlta Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Sen or Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc-
tiens in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : OOLBY AND Rioh. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s, 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.   
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
ASTROLOGY, a popular sketch of Celestial
Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J. Pearce, author
of the TVeather Guide - Book, &c. Price Is. London:
Berger, Newcastle-street, Strand. Sent post free by the
author on receipt of twelve penny stamps; address, 3, Cedars-
terrace, Lavender-hill, S.W.
“ This work is the best that has ever been printed to convey
to those unacquainted with Astrology, a plain, simple, and
easily understood idea of what it really is; and before under¬
taking to learn anything about it by any of my own works, I
advise my readers to obtain and peruse this very excellent
little publication.”—Zadkiel.
N.B.—The author gives private instruction in Astrology.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird's-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Histosical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 6s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec,_ appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue dq Lille, Paris, Post-Office orders payable
to M, Leymarie,
MR. C. 1. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from. 3j2 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above.
MR, J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
 Hours—Twelve till Five. 
SPIRITUAL HEALING
BY JAMES REGAN,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQ., LONDON, W.O.
N.B.—Patients desiring personal treatment will please
make appointment in first instance by letter; terms as per
agreement.  
MR. W. EGLINTON
Has returned to town, and may be addressed,
32, FOPSTONE-ROAD, EARL’S-COURT, KENSINGTON,
W.
' Hours—Twelve to Five.
MR. J. j. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANOE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
w
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired)
For all particulars address him at 15, Sbuthampton-row,
London, W.O.  ■
MESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
 71, Pocock-street, Blackfriars-road, London.
MR. J. HAWKINS, 11, Mount Pleasant,
East-road, City-road, Magnetic Healer, open to en¬
gagements to start seances and to develops mediums.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER, the mesmeric
healer, 2, Vemon-place, Bloomsbury-square. Hours,
12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appointment.
Nervous diseases a specialty.
TO MESMERISTS.—For Sale, a few copies
of Lang’s work on Mesmerism; its History, Phenomena
and Practice. Edinburgh, 1843. Post free, 4s. 6d. Many other
scarce books on animal magnetism. List sent. Lachlan, 22a,
King-street, St. James’s, London, SW.
MRS. WOODFORDE, 90, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, from 12 to
5 p.m. For visits of friendship, from 8 to 10 p.m.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Oontaining instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300/or Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6d., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOE DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
' The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain tbe phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as_ a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
London simpkin, Marshall & Co. .
jl xi ip tl nub. m
Votu]vie BtEVEN. Number Twenty.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16th, 1877.
« THE SOUL AND FUTURE LIFE.”
BT EPES SARGENT.
In relation to the “ symposiac ” discussion on the subject !
of ((The Soul and a Future Life,” which has recently ap- jj
peared in TAe Nineteenth Century, and in which Mr. Frederic j
Harrison, Mr. Hutton, Professor Huxley, Lord Blatchford, |
Mr. Roden Noel, Lord Selborne, Canon Barry, Mr. W. R. j!
Greg, Rev. Baldwin Brown, and Dr. W. G. Ward have been !i;
the interlocutors, a friend writes me as follows:—
“ In all the protracted and certainly able discussion of the j
subject, there is little more than an allusion to the modern i
spiritual phenomena; but the general tone of the arguments j
favourable to a future life is of hardly higher cogency than j
that of the speculations in Plato’s Phcedo. Mr. Harrison |
closes us with the strongest possible exhibition of the dif- |
ficulties incident to the supposition of a future life, drawn |
mainly from the position that a functional relation has been j
established by philosophy between every fact of thinking, j
willing, or feeling, on the one side, and some molecular j
changes in the body on the other side.
f| What deplorable prejudice it must be that has prevented j
the writers from even looking at the great mass of pheno- I
mena tending towards a solution of their problem offered by |
Spiritualism ! It reminds one of a coterie of deaf and dumb I
men inquiring into the possibility of such a thing as music.”
Mr. F. Harrison has been very arrogant and very con- I
temptuous in his expressions towards Spiritualism. He has |
called it a “ disgusting subject,” and he has charged the |
investigators into the Slade phenomena—such men as Dr. I
Carter Blake, Serjeant Cox, A. R. Wallace, Dr. Wyld, Rev. I
Wm. Stainton-Moses, Mr. W. H. Harrison, and others, j
gentlemen more or less connected with science or litera- I
ture—as “ grovelling before the trickery of a Yankee con¬
juror.” It will not, therefore, be pleasant to Mr. F. Harrison
to learn that in emphasising and exposing as he does the
insufficiency of the current arguments of theology in favour
of a future state for man, he is unwittingly helping this
li disgusting ” Spiritualism, for which he can hardly find
words to express his scorn, to emerge as the rock of the
future, as it has been of the past, on which men must
mainly found their rational convictions of the soul’s im¬
mortality.
All other arguments for immortality come in with new
and unexpected force when this one basic principle, demon¬
strable, consistent, harmonious, and contradicted by no fact
of science, whether chemical, mechanical, or biological, is
conceded, as it soon must be—the principle, namely, that
there are supersensual faculties in man which point to a
duality of organisms, the one coarse and visible to sense,
the other subtle, ethereal, invisible—the spiritual continent
of man’s entire individuality, and which, by the dissolution
of the physical body, is freed for continuous life, with high
corresponding faculties and powers, in a world invisible to
our present sensual limitations.
Mr. F. Harrison is very fond of characterising this belief
as a gross and hideous materialism. But the question is not
precisely whether it suits his fastidious sesthetic demands, but
whether the facts, some of which he so angrily repudiates j
as the “ trickery of a Yankee conjuror,” are true and demon- j
strable. I happen to know that they are, and in this know- j
ledge I am upheld by the concurrent testimony of chemists,
physicists, astronomers, lawyers and men of letters: by I
Hare, Crookes, Wyld, Wallace, Butlerof, Wagner, Perty,
Flammarion, Fichte, Denton, W. H. Harrison, Buchanan,
Cox, Stainton-Moses, C. C. Massey, Gerald Massey, Brittan,
Watson, F. Tennyson, and many more, some of the most i
noted of whom I may have unintentionally failed to mention.
There are many fastidious persons who chafe at some of }
the coarse facts and processes of our physical nature, and ‘
| wonder why a highly intellectual person should have to
| submit, like a dog or cat, to the base requirements of the
body. Mr. F. Harrison would seem to be of this class, so
far, at least, as the notion of a spiritual organism, successor
of the physical, is concerned. To his mind it is a brutalising
conception; and he has a sneer at Isaac Taylor’s Physical
Theory of Another Life, published long before modern
j Spiritualism appeared, and which incidentally prompts him
| to utter, with his de haut en has air of complacent superiority,
j these ejaculations : 11 This is the true materialism ; here is
| the physical theory of another life; this is the unspiritual
| denial of the soul, the binding it down to the clay of
| the body.”
And the end of this vaunted “soul,” according to the
| teachings of Mr. F. Harrison, is in the charnel-house and
! the grave. “Mr. Harrison’s striking discourse on the soul and
future life,” says Professor Huxley, wittily, “has a certain
i resemblance to the famous essay on the snakes of Ireland.”
These aesthetic objections to “ the physical theory of
I another life,” are anticipated and met by Isaac Taylor, who
| seems to have foreseen precisely such a class of malcontents
j as Mr. F. Harrison represents ; for Taylor aptly says —“The
| prejudices of a somewhat morbid spirituality might perhaps
| lead us to distaste the animated world around us as God’s
| work, and impel us to be scandalised by some of its condi-
j tions; and thus it is conceivable that the realities of the
| upper world, when first they open upon minds imbued with
| prepossessions of this kind, may excite a recoil and amaze-
| ment such as may try the principles of piety. . . . Nothing
J is more dangerous than to indulge notions which tend to make
| us think our tastes and principles more refined and elevated
i than those of the Creator and Ruler of the universe. Some-
II thing of this infatuation very commonly besets ardent and
\! abstracted minds.”
“ Infatuation,” it would indeed seem to be, that incites
j Mr. F. Harrison to ring the changes as he does upon the
| “ materialism ” of the system of truth deducible from the
known facts of Spiritualism. If “materialism ” it indeed be,
I how are we going to help it ? Had we not better set about
i reconciling ourselves to the facts in the best way we can,
| and trust to the “ nature of things ” for coming out right ?
| Dryden says :—
“ Reaching above our nature does no good,
We must sink back into our flesh and blood.”
j An ignoble sentiment if ignobly construed, and yet a salutary
one, if construed aright.
Precisely the same assertions that Mr. F. Harrison uses to'
belittle the Spiritualists’ conception of an ethereal, trans-
j material organism in man, could be used against all his own
j notions of a possible moral “ spirituality” in this life. Why
| should the “materialism” he denounces be anymore inci-
] dental to the spiritual state of being than to the terrestrial
j and physical ? If a man can be morally “ spiritualised ” in
I his material body, why not in his trans-material ? All this
] rant about the “ disgusting ” character of Spiritualism, and
| its tendency to moral “ materialism ” is simply the objurga-
! tion of ignorance and misconception. Assuming that the
] | subject of our phenomena is despicable, Mr. F. Harrison has
i;j never investigated sufficiently to encounter a few of our
! | stupendous and staggering facts, any one of which would
|! carry force enough to knock the wind out of his philosophy,
> j and show him that he is battling with the inevitable.
! | The Rev. Mr. Yoysey is another representative of this class
II of aesthetic objectors. He “ hopes most earnestly ” that
11 our facts may not be true; and he stigmatises as a “ morbid
'! craving ” the natural desire on the part of human beings to
11 learn something of their immortal prospects. But may
; I there not be a morbid apathy, as well as a morbid craving ?
‘ ff Indifference to the question what and where we are to
230
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 16, 1877.
be after our short career on earth,’, says John Quincy Adams,
sixth President of the United States, u is the swift and too j
often fatal step to the disbelief that there is any future state j|i
of responsible existence for us in reserve.”
And this indifference is getting to be quite the fashionable h
thing in literary and scientific circles. Mr. F. Harrison [i
speaks with what Mr. Hutton justly characterises as an Ij
“ accent of hauteur ” of the vulgar aspirations to continuous I1
life. Mr. Ralph Waldo Emerson tells us that11 Christ never l!
preaches the personal immortality;” which announcement, jj
seeing that Christ reappeared in person to prove His per- |
sonal immortality, would seem to be deliberately intended !
to convey an erroneous impression. I
What powers of intellectual acclimatisation are there in jj
the soul of man ! Miss Martineau and Mr. Frederick Har- jj
rison find comfort and warmth in the arctic zone of utter I
unbelief as to a future life. Indeed, the sentiment, as it j
waxes stronger, gets to be something more than mere un- j
belief; it swells to a contemptuous repudiation of all hope in j
immortality as something derogatory and vulgar. And at j
this state of mind Mr. F. Harrison would seem to have
arrived. Hence the frantic expressions of hate which he has
for Spiritualism—the most portentous of the shadows of
coming events that threaten to annihilate his godless creed, j j
But see how, in the gradual evolution of truth, even athe j
wrath of man ” against it is made to work in its favour, j
As I have already intimated, Mr. F. Harrison is doing a j
good and needed work for Spiritualism. We have given the j
names of ten well-known writers who have taken up the j
gauntlet which he so defiantly flung down, and all of whom, j
except Professor Huxley, have brought forward such argu- j
ments as they could to prop the declining belief in 1
immortality. Omitting, as they have, all reference to the j j
proofs, direct and palpable, that are given, and have been j j
always given by Spiritualism, how unsatisfying, except to a jy
small class of intuitive and imaginative minds, their reason- j j
ings and their proofs must seem ! In exposing this barren- j j
ness and insufficiency, Mr. F. Harrison is doing the good j I
work to which I have referred; and I cannot but admit and j j
admire the ability with which he is doing it. It is only j j
when he touches on Spiritualism that he loses his head and j j
begins to rave. That is but natural, since neither argument j j
nor rhetoric can counteract a fact; and he must fully realise j j
that if our facts are, as we claim, real and demonstrable, |
his ingenious writings, so far as they conflict with the truth, j
must go down the stream of oblivion as exploded rubbish. j
No. 68, Moreland-atreet, Boston, U.S.A, (
Sftebteto.
The Soul, and Hoiv it Found Me. By Edward Maitland.
Tinsley Brothers. London: 1877.
This is a book that every Spiritualist should read. Its i
effect on the large circle of general readers which Mr. j
Maitland’s literary reputation can command will probably j |
be bewildering. From the vulgar critics who repeat the j j
phrases whereby they have been taught to ascribe every j
supersensuous experience to morbid conditions, the author j
can of course only expect misrepresentation and insult, j
All the more prompt and cordial should be the expressed j j
sympathy of the better informed with the accomplished j
scholar whose high quality of unselfish courage has given j
to a hostile public the avowals contained in this remarkable j
volume. Nor will their appreciation be' limited to the j
testimony thus forcibly and fearlessly given. The facts j
recorded are of transcendent interest, some of them being j j
strikingly and profoundly suggestive. Such is “the Vision j
of the Tree,” at p. 60, of the possibility “ that there subsists j j
between all living beings a bond of sympathy to which, if j i
only the desire on one side reach an extreme degree of j j
intensity, the other side maybe forced to respond by dis- j j
closing to view its animating idea as also, in the deve- j j
loped thought of the author/that this “idea” has an j I
essential correspondence to and takes the form of per- j|;j
sonality. So, at p. 86, we have an account of a case of jlj
“ transfer of thought ” as remarkable as anything of the jjf
same nature ever recorded. Especially interesting and j[|
instructive is Mr. Maitland’s account of his transition from ^
intellectual labour to spiritual receptivity. No abbre¬
viation, no description at second-hand of this vivid picture,
can do anything like justice to its force and impressiveness.
But we may note two stages in the author’s development
—the ideal and the personal. And it is worthy of remark,
as showing how little an enthusiastic or “prevenient
imagination ” was concerned in the results, that Mr. Mait¬
land seems not to have conceived the extraordinary and
spontaneous access of ideas distinguishing the earlier stage
of illumination to have been due to personal inspiration,
until it was unmistakably impressed with the charac¬
teristics of a second intelligence in the later.
The book is an account of the production of the larger
work, England and Islam, published by the author
in the spring. Many, perhaps, will be of opinion with
the present writer, that that work contains a mixture
of much that is sublime and true in spiritual philosophy
with political fallacies which seem strange in such a
connection. Even if we were to accept, on the authority
of this revelation, propositions involving very questionable
assumptions, we should still revolt from the conclusion
that it is the duty of England to aid in perpetuating cruel
and oppressive misrule for a high and spiritual purpose.
It may be that it is the mission of England to mediate
the harmonious union of the eastern and the western
peoples—of the masculine and the feminine elements of
the human race; though it is not easy to see that in her
long connection with India she has hitherto shown the
least sympathy with, or influence over, or tendency to
fuse the genius of her Oriental subjects. It may be that
the passage of the Danube, by Russian armies, was the
first step in a march to India, though it looks more like
what it professed to be—the sympathetic junction of two
members of the Slavonic race against the alien oppressor
of one of them. But if England’s action is to be deter¬
mined by moral considerations, is it not better that she
should fight the battle, even at conceivable disadvantage,
when and where those considerations are all on her side,
than at a time and place at which her interference would
mean the support of political wrong and injustice ? We
are left in some doubt as to the source from which Mr.
Maitland believes himself to have derived his inspiration
on this subject; but even if, as seems to be implied, he
represents the soul of England (is it not rather the soul
of Islam ?) he may be reminded of his own teaching (Eng¬
land and Islam, p. 167), that there is yet a higher and a
higher soul: that the soul of humanity is nearer to G-od,
and therefore to right, and truth, and justice, than the
soul of one of its collective members, and that the “ Eastern
Question ” may be viewed from a higher standpoint than
that represented by the tutelary spirit of one people.
Passing gladly from topics of political controversy, we
come to the fundamental principle of Mr. Maitland’s phi¬
losophy—the doctrine of the soul. “ It was by a process
purely intellectual,” he tells us, “ that I had come to regard
the pantheistic hypothesis, which involved the reality and
indestructibility of the soul, as a necessary truth.” His is
not the Pantheism that negates the personality of God,
sinking and exhausting the soul of the universe in its
sensible activity and manifestation. He holds, on the
contrary, the belief of all philosophical “mystics,” that
the ideal is the real, and, with Spinoza, that God is the
only substance. Not in the identity of God with Nature,
but in his identity with man, does the author discover at
once the fontal idea of religion, the proof of individual
immortality, and the explanation of existence itself. He
insists, of course, on that important distinction between
the true and apparent self, without regard to which the
idea would either be unintelligible, or would have no other
significance for-idealism than the impersonal Pantheism of
a natura naturans has for Materialism. The recognition
of this distinction has always accompanied and charac¬
terised the escape of the religious consciousness from
dogma and formalism into. the spirit. The new birth is
nothing else or less than this recognition in experience.*
* The writer cannot refrain here from a deprecatory reference to the materialistic per¬
version of this essential idea of religion by the Beincarnationists, who see in it only an
explicit confirmation of their belief. This degradation of a sublime spiritual truth is the
great blot in Lady Caithness’s otherwise very interesting and instructive book, Old Truths
in a Nsw Light,
THE SPIKITUALIST.
231
Nov. 16, 1877.
How little of true personality there is in the ordinary con¬
sciousness will be apparent to any one who reflects on the
preponderating influence of the external over our lives,
and on the fact that even the opinions and sentiments
which we regard as most truly our own, and characteristic,
are for the most part held in obedience to moral and intel¬
lectual forces, which individual minds can neither deter¬
mine nor resist. The theory of human automatism has
much to say for itself in the sphere of the outer life. We
find this outer life of sensibility and impotence constantly
referred to by Behmen, St. Martin, and other theosophists,
under the significant designation, Astral; whether it was
that they were imbued with astrological ideas, or, as is
more probable, that the science of astrology is derived
from a deeper knowledge of man and the universe, which
has never been wholly lost. Certain it is that the fatalistic j j
element in life, which is the theme of much contemporary j j
writing, was fully recognised in the old spiritual philoso- | |
phies. Its recognition by modern thought is without any
perception of transcendental freedom and personality. |(|
Nevertheless—and notwithstanding the train of mate- j'
rialistic consequences—logical and practical, which such a !
half truth necessitates, it prepares the conditions of I
spiritual insight. It is better that for a time we should |
be taught to regard personality as an illusion, than that we
should continue to confound the true and the apparent self,
thereby inevitably accepting the phenomenal sphere of the
latter as equally real and limitative. Of all the clergy and j
good people who speak familiarly of the soul, few probably
have any other idea of it than as the subject of their tem¬
poral and habitual consciousness. To how many, for in¬
stance, would it seem other than a startling paradox to |
assert that a bad soul is a contradiction in terms ? The j
great truth proclaimed by Mr. Maitland is the substantial |
indifference of the Universal Soul (God) and its manifesta¬
tion in man. But in how many men is it manifested ?
How many men have other than potential souls ?
This doctrine of the soul is perfectly familiar, though
under diverse expressions, to the religious consciousness, j
and is in accordance with ancient religious and philoso¬
phical systems. It is inevitably implied in the attempt to
escape from limitations. We should not have the sense of
limitation if our whole being was comprised and expressed
in any moment of its development—in a word, if we were
not conscious of an affinity to the infinite. We may re¬
present this to ourselves in the sphere of finite things by
supposing the germ of a tree to be endowed with self- |
consciousness. The true being is not the germ but the !
ideal tree, which has to come, in time, to its phenomenal j
manifestation. Its phenomenal consciousness, during the j
germ stage, would reveal only the germ as a completed
existence, but would be accompanied by a real conscious- j
ness, which would, however, appear only as a sense of
limitation, and a struggle for development. But when the
limit of its capacity was attained, and the phenomenal tree
fully expressed the ideal, this sense of limitation would !
disappear, and would be succeeded by a perfect content¬
ment and satisfaction. This state can never be per¬
manently attained by the human soul, because it is none
other than the Infinite and Universal Being in temporary |
and partial manifestation. The ideal of religious aspira¬
tion is to have done with the apparent self, and to be so
united with God as to have no desires, no interests, no pas- I
sions—in a word, no will apart from His. So the ideal of j
the philosopher is to think in universal forms, and to
escape from the partial categories that are peculiar to j
himself or to a school. No wonder that speculation some¬
times confounds this ideal with absorption, or that Nirvana
has been supposed to imply* the privation of individual j
consciousness. Yet the revolution of the planetary bodies
round their true centre, the Sun, is not inconsistent with
the secondary motion about their own axes. In the revelation
received by Mr. Maitland respecting the spiritual origin
and meaning of the Zodiacal Planisphere, we have the
idea, familiar to the student of Swedenborg (to go no j
further back), of the exact correspondence between the j
spiritual and the natural, as between the macrocosm and j
the microcosm. This doctrine, if scientific men would j
avail themselves of it, is an organon by which knowledge I
and discovery might advance with gigantic strides. Nor
has it been wholly neglected. Nothing in his writings
stamps Mr. Herbert Spencer so distinctly as a man of
genius as his independent discovery of the fact that the
processes of evolution are the same in moral, social, and
physical phenomena. But this pregnant idea can only
receive its full application to the sphere of existence when
the intellect has fairly grappled with materialistic assump¬
tions, and idealism has attained its victory in thought.
The significance of this doctrine of the soul with refer¬
ence to the question of human immortality will be partly
apparent from what has been already said. If the true
soul is that which links us to the universal, and is alone
immortal, then must it vitalise the individual conscious¬
ness in order that the latter may be perpetuated. The
doctrine of individual immortality, in short, implies that
the infinite and universal shall be active and conscious in
the finite and particular. It may be expressed again, in
religious language, by saying that the Divine Will has to
take the place of the individual will in the individual, to
convert the latter to itself, so that the individual shall be
the conscious energy of God in a sphere of particular
manifestation. The theological alternative, as we all know,
was hell. The philosophical alternative is death—the
annihilation of individual energy and consciousness which
have in themselves no value, no claim to persistence, and
no ground of it. Why, forsooth, should “ I ” be immortal,
if the “ I ” means nothing more than an individual, centre
of pleasures, pains, passions, and self-regarding energies of
thought and action ? The very hope of such an immor¬
tality is inexpressibly degrading; the very conception of
it, so far from being spiritualistic, is a consequence of that
other false and essentially materialistic conception of
existence, which makes the individual the atom, the reality,
and the universal a mere abstraction. Those who would
go more deeply and particularly into this subject of con¬
ditional immortality may be referred to that recently
published marvel of erudition and research, Blavatsky’s
Isis Unveiled. At present let us hear our author, “ Though
the soul is in its nature indestructible, the individual is
not, therefore, necessarily immortal; for the soul is a loan
and not a gift. It is a flame which, tended and fostered,
burns up into God; but which, rejected or ignored, burns
out and becomes extinct in respect of its possessor, but
only after many trials and opportunities of recovery, when
the individual perishes, and the soul returns to its Divine
element,” p. 240. And we find the same teaching in a
trance communication, at p. 253, entitled, “ A Vision of
Creation.” It presents no difficulty when once we have
ceased to regard the distinction between the soul and the
apparent self, as a mere religious figure of speech, and are
able to perceive in it a profound metaphysical truth.
Of the force and lucidity with which its leading concep¬
tions are inculcated in the book before us, no isolated
passages can give an adequate impression. The most
striking are involved in such streams of cogent and con¬
nected thought and narrative that to quote them out of
their context, even if space permitted, would be mere
mutilation. It must be assumed that every reader of this
journal, who cares to know what Spiritual Pantheism is,
will read Mr. Maitland’s book for himself. Some of the
“ spirit messages ” given through the hand of the lady
whom Maitland calls “the Seeress,”* are of exceptional
excellence. One specimen must be given. “ We would
have you know that there is no such thing as purely
spiritual evil, but that evil is the result of the materialisa¬
tion of spirit. If you examine carefully all we have said
concerning the various forms of evil, you will see that
every one is the -result of the limitations of matter.
Falsehood is the limitation of the faculties of perception—
selfishness is the result of the limitation of the power to
perceive that the whole universe is',but theTarger self, and so
of all the rest. It' is then true that God created evil, but
yet it is true that God is spirit, and being spirit is inca¬
pable of evil. Evil is then purely and solely the result of
* One word here of disgust for the vulgar insolence of a reviewer in The Academy,
who could describe a lady, of whom he could know nothing, except what Mr. Maitland
tells us, viz., that she is of a “ bright intelligence, cultivated mind, indomitable spirit, and
eager sympathy with the pursuit of perfection wherever discernible,” as a “ hysterica
woman.” It is, however, fair to add,that this has since been retracted by the Editor.
232
THE SPIRITUALIST*
Nov. 16, 1877,
the materialisation of God. This is a great mystery. We
can but indicate it to-night,” p. 152.
Other topics, less transcendental, are comprised in Mr.
Maitland’s book, which cannot be adequately noticed here.
A practical result of the prevalent materialism is traced in
the horrible practice of vivisection; and an analogy is
drawn between the theological dogma of sacrificial atone¬
ment and the slaying of animals for the sustenance of life.
To Spiritualists, the former atrocity is deprived of its poor
and doubtful plea of indispensable utility by the knowledge
that mesmeric clairvoyance, cultivated and developed,
would probably render a truer account than an instrument
of torture.
From one so fertile in thought, and so powerful in ex¬
pression, as Mr. Maitland, we may hope that the literature
of Spiritualism will be further enriched by his pen. He
is a welcome ally to the movement, over which he cannot
fail to exercise an elevating and instructive influence.
   0. 0. Massey.
SPECULATIONS ABOUT REINCARNATION PROBLEM.
BT J. T. MARKLET.
Am I somebody else ? Is my individuality a transfusion
of olden soul-force; a latter-day effusion of some personage
who shone, or was defamed, in the days which have now
become history ? This train of thought suggests itself in
the speculative confusion of the revived Eeincarnation
controversy. Although I am “ intelligently slow ” to
accept this fast-spreading Continental doctrine, yet I must,
in all fairness, admit that the Eeincarnationists include in
their ranks not a few of the most refined, intellectual, and
faithfully religious folk in Europe. A belief which has
attracted, and is attracting, many of the most influential
and gifted thinkers in Eoman Catholic countries, is not to
be hastily sneered at by those of us who incline to contrary
opinions in questions of speculative theology. Having
said thus much to indicate my Dean-Stanleyite love of
truth, wherever found, or in whatever direction it beckons
the reverent understanding, I shall not be likely to fall
into old-groove prejudices in pursuing, briefly, this inquiry
—Are we really ourselves ?
Euthenpharl—a sweet poet, in all conscience—addressing
the Blessed Dead, remarks :
Say, are we still as dear
To you as then—when you were here ?
But to what angels do we speak ? May not the departed
rise again to quick life in the person of our neighbour’s
latest child ? And possibly the Janet of our schoolday
rambles—who died in a pale consumption ten years ago—
is now, in altered form, the Juliana with whom we com¬
mune so lovingly during the mutual rapture of the
“ musical evenings ” at home, or at the semi-detached villa
over the way ? There is surely much in our new favourite
to recall the loving personality of the half-forgotten buried
Beauty of long ago. Was it not Sir Walter Scott who
testified rationally to the “ sentiment of Pre-existence,”
which often becomes a widely circulated experience among
persons of deep thought and culture ? And how often do
we feel the bewildering sense of “ history repeated,” when
voices startle us with echoes once dearly familiar, and
forms of facial loveliness bring back the past with a vivid¬
ness which makes us almost afraid ?
This “ second edition ” of some one we have known in the
days of the fond grandfather’s blessing, seems to share the
“surprise” with which we are pushed back into uncontroll¬
able dreams. Are we both renewing a friendship which once
took other forms, say a generation back ? If not, why this
dual recognition of previous companionship amid other
scenes, and on other dates ? We somehow fall at once to
the Poetry of Sadness. We cannot do less than love each
other; but still we are not comfortable. Two distinct worlds
seem to be “ ill at ease,” although the conference of
spirituelle reflection is so welcome and so joyous. We
neither of us have courage to express this “ sentiment of
pre-existence ” in homely talk, so that poetry must come
to the rescue. Cautiously we ask—
Where is Posthumus ? What is in thy mind
That makes thee stare thus ? •
Wherefore breaks that sigh ?
|| But the enchantment is short-lived; and the noise of the
I madding crowd reduces the illusion to a commonplace
I event.
Perhaps this question of personal identity and pre-
| existence, can be best noticed by studying the characteristics
| of Genius. It is well-known among literary and press
j writers, that the productions of a person’s pen, when after-
| wards perused by the writer himself, seem to be as new to
| him as to the great vulgar public which waits in the streets
| to devour the contents of this apparent brain effort, be it
| in books, or the rapidly composed morning newspaper.
| Who can read the works of our deepest thinkers without
I feeling the mysterious afflatus of some abnormal inspira-
J tion ? To say that it is mechanical and incessant practice,
j which causes this masterly flow of ripe thought, and this
| power of all-conquering rhetoric, is only to half explain the
| phenomenon of the literary understanding. How about
| the variations of style and expression ? Is there not a type
| of fatalism in the language of the fluent scribe ?
Is it absurd to infer that some great and grand, so-called
I “ dead ” Macaulay, overshadows the apt and wonderful
penmen who compose—with lightning speed and splen¬
dour — many of the most conscientious newspaper
“ leaders ” in the middle-watch of the night ? Ask any
writerj of original gifts to explain the “ irresistible out¬
flow ” of his best thoughts, and he will mostly tell you that
he feels guided rapidly to the moods of his eloquence by
'an “ influence ” only to be realised by personal experience.
It is the same in front-rank oratory. The golden stream
of instructive speech through and by the lips of Gladstone,
Beaconsfield, or Bright, and the rare sermons of Punshon,
Gillfillan, Canon Liddon, and such men, suggests the possi¬
bility of “ other forces” acting outside and upon the famous
speechmen. Are these men really themselves ? Are they
olden senators and pulpit orators re-incarnated ? or do
they receive abnormal help and training from “ congenial
souls ” now departed ?
This inspirational individuality in men and women of
genius seems to prove that writers are helped by “ minis¬
tering spirits,” or that they are historic characters working
again on earth in new forms, and under new conditions of
personal experience. May not Swinburne, in the intrepid
splendour of his muse, be under the spiritual control of
Lord Byron. All religious reformers too, may be thus
“ inspired ” by ghostly minds of similar caste, motives,
and sympathies. Does Wesley still live in the person of
some holy toiler in our midst ? and may not Keble brood
over some hallowed pen now busy with new songs of the
Christian year? We may almost assume, at any rate,
that the bitter theologians of the dark ages have a little
to do in the editorial management of many of our modern
“ religious ” newspapers. Moreover, did we not detect the
“ ghost ” of cruel Judge Jeffries, the other day, telling a
living magistrate to give a child-prisoner “ three weeks ”
for playfully stealing a common house-leek ?
The examples cited in this short article might be also
extended to the productions of art, the pursuit of science,
and the less pretentious features of common domestic life.
But it is in the case of crime, and in the domain of every¬
day temptation, that we are most led to ask, Are we really
ourselves ? Fashionable ladies have been known to steal;
noble fellows have become sots; church deacons—when
from home—have sworn like gallant cavaliers; and circus
clowns, under temptation, have become Gospel preachers !
Wherefore this change ? Old drunkards tell us that they
dread the “ melancholy period ” when beer takes them by
storm, in spite of their better selves. The political dema¬
gogue often repents of his eloquent “ aspersions,” and
says that some “ awful inspiration ” prompted him to
defame his best friends. Many a man also makes a fool of
himself because he tries to sing operatic solos, without any
sign of a musical voice, in a crowded private gathering of
the elite! And it is well known as a fact in comparative
psychology, that nearly all suicides are the result of uncon¬
trollable and secretly fought lunar impulse.* I might write
a book rather than a single article upon this momentous
theme. But from this fragmentary examination of the
i ci * Where is the evidence of this ?—Ed,
Nov. 16, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
233
question—Are we really ourselves ? we seem to be on the j j j
track, of some unexplained outside force of “inspiration” | |
in things good and bad. We may not haughtily solve this j j j
problem of life and destiny, but phenomenal facts may help j |
to make its solution possible even before— j j
f< Death shall re-unite i (j
The severed branch unto the parent-stem. j (j
From certain cardinal impulses in men’s nature, and j j
from the almost fatal pre-destiny of their daily actions, we | |
may reasonably infer the theory of abnormal inspiration. ! j
This doctrine is compatible with the free exercise of the I |
human will. Why may not the “ old Masters,” now in the I j
land of souls, try to influence great congenial minds within j |
earthly experience. And the same principles may hold I I
good in reference to the sway of “ bad spirits ” over per- | |
sons of negative and naturally carnal disposition. If Keble j j
was not really old George Herbert, reincarnated for further j j
poetical and ascetic development; and if Mr. Spurgeon is j !
not really Calvin “humanised,” or Dr. Blair reset, and | |
quickened with new humours of rhetoric, it is not unfair to | |
assume, that the “ blessed dead ”—as popularly understood j I
—may overshadow their counterparts, and guide to j j
effectual issues the worthy deeds of similarly constituted | j
minds of later birth and experience. This psychological | |
fact may help to explain wicked temptations, and the I j
fearful criminal deeds of many, in unlettered society. Old | j
sots departed may mysteriously “influence” enfeebled jji
drunkards in the flesh. Ask any debauched cobbler of | j
otherwise excellent parts, and he will confess to a “ dread j
of certain awful periods” in his domestic experience when m
he is led, against his better self, to frequent the low tap-room j 11
hells which slowly work out his moral and social ruin. The j j
unfortunate suicide, in all ranks of life, secretly battles for j j
weeks, months, and years, it maybe, with the “tempta- j j
tion ” known only to himself. Is this temptation a preter- | j
natural, a bad spiritual influence, acting through the | j
aura of interlinked soul-life? Or are the erring ones only j j
undeveloped spirits once again in the bodily throes of a j j
needful, and possibly a merciful, reincarnation ? To my j |
mind, the first hypothesis is the most feasible, as the I j
“inspiration” theory will cover all forms of intellectual j i
effort, and every variation of good and bad predisposition, j j
Following out this argument, Keats may have felt the | j
guiding grandeur of Milton’s “soul in glory;” and the ||]
united spirits of both those sublime poets may even now 11
be “hovering about ” and educating some all-commanding jj
Nineteenth-Century genius. Sir Christopher Wren, as an ill
inspiring and restless ghost, might, perchance, influence j j
the finishing touches of hallowed beauty which give a j j
dreamy splendour to the fane just free from the active | |
creation of the architect, and the busy cunning of won- j i
derful workmen. Other abnormal powers, less majestic, lij
may possibly strive, with half-developed mortals, against j j
holy thoughts and honourable aspirations; whilst the I |
world—divided in motives, interests, and passions—is j !
mostly ignorant of the mysterious spiritual revolutions j j
which affect mankind, or play into the daily processes of j |
our eternal destiny. j
3, Crawthorn-street, Peterborough. i i
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS. I
inquirers’ seances. i
On Tuesday, the 6th November, a stance was held at jj
38, Great Russell-street, London, with Mr. C. E. Williams j<
as medium. There were thirteen persons present besides j!
Mr. Williams. We sat with joined hands round the table [j
for about an hour and a quarter, in the dark. Nothing j
occurred, except a number of faint raps, apparently pro¬
duced by blows on the lower surface of the top of the
table, which were felt as well as heard at various parts of
the table, sometimes far from the medium.
Those familiar with seances will know how to appreciate j
the bearing of the following facts on the poverty of the j
manifestations!
1st. The atmosphere was close and damp, and the baro- j
meter low.
2nd, A discussion had occurred immediately before the 1
seance, in the presence of the medium, as to whether he
should go into the cabinet or we should sit round the table.
3rd. Some half-dozen strangers among the sitters seemed
shy and reserved, and scarcely joined, if at all, either in the
general conversation or in the singing. This naturally had
a somewhat depressing effect on the medium, which, as is
well known, tends to weaken the manifestations.
A. Joy, Member of Seance Committee, in Charge.
A GRIEVANCE RECTIFIED.
In The Spiritualist of November 2nd was that part of a letter by
Mr. Mould, of Newcastle, which defended Miss Wood. The other part
was not published, because, as we stated, it consisted of “somewhat
personal remarks about Mr. Stone.”
Although this letter was signed only by Mr. Mould, a document has
been published by Messrs. J. Mould, W.'C. Robson, W. Hunter, John
Miller, F. Pickup, H. A. Kersey, E. J. Blake, M. Patterson, W. Arm¬
strong, T. Ashton, J. Coltman, J. Haydock, J. Robson, and L. Bristol,
stating it to be their letter. They call our suppression of personalities
the suppression of a “ defence,” and raise the question whether this
journal is edited by a Jesuit.
The best thing we can do is to print the suppressed part of the letter,
to the publication of which so much importance is attached. Here
it is :—!
To the Editor of li The Spiritualist^
Dear Sir,—In your last week’s issue a Mr. J. B. Stone writes to correct a
report, made by your correspondent “X,” of the movement in Blackburn.
Further than what I read in the spiritual papers, I know nothing of the
progress or otherwise, anywhere than Newcastle, of Spiritualism; but I am
inclined to think, from Mr. Stone’s own letter, that11X ” has more accurately
gauged the state of affairs than “even one of the earliest adherents.”
Mr. Stone has investigated this subject to little purpose, and—per inference
—his methods must have been very crude, otherwise he would not have
displayed such gross ignorance of the nature of mediumship; and, as to the
“ cause being top sacred to be trifled with,” before assuming Miss Wood has
done any such thing, I would suggest to Mr. Stone to qualify himself first as
an observer before burlesquing the functions of a j udge.
If Spiritualism has no broader and better foundation than Mr. Stone’s own
personal and family experiences, he may, if it suits his own crabbed and
confined soul, bow down to the mongrel fetish his untutored imagination has
conjured ; but he must excuse the people of the North if they decline to have
any such “ god to reign over us,” or to imbibe such a spiritual atmosphere as
surrounds his saintly presence.
If Mr. Stone had recognised the equal importance for honesty -among
inquirers, such as he insists should obtain among mediums, he would not
have indulged in such shameless and reckless charges as those he prefers,
but cannot substantiate, against Miss Wood, and probably he would have
learned, from a little introspection, induced by the exercise of such a duty,
that there are still heights of honesty to which even the “ earliest adherent of
the movement in Blackburn” may aspire; and until he reaches that exalted
pinnacle of purity, and has given us the requisite external evidence of such
lofty attainments, we decline to think of him otherwise than of the earth
earthy. It may be he is a well-meaning man, but he is assuredly a most
wilfully ignorant Spiritualist.
Having removed the grievance by printing what was desired, our
readers are in a position to judge for themselves, whether or ho the
public interests of the movement and of the authors were supported by
us in withholding the above from publication.
We will not print any more letters on this subject. Those of the past
have been exceptionally violent and inharmonious. Mr. Stone had no
right to measure by his own, the experiences of others who had tested
Miss Wood well for years, and superabundantly proved the genuineness
of her powers. On the other hand, the authors of the &bove letter had
equally no right to judge by their own, Mr. Stone’s experience of the
seizure of the medium dressed up as a spirit. Such logic would be but
equivalent to that of the indignant Irishman, who when told that three
witnesses said they saw his friend shoot his landlord, indignantly
replied that it was not true, as he could bring thirteen other witnesses
to swear that they did not see the said shooting. What takes place in
one locality in one time, is no evidence as to what takes place in another
locality at another time.
ft Miss Wood claims that at Blackburn she was an unconscious instru¬
ment in the hands of an evil power. As there can be ho proof to the
contrary, and she is known to be almost daily subject to abnormal in¬
fluences, we suggested in these pages that she should have , the benefit of
the doubt, but that in future none but test manifestations through her
mediumship should be accepted. Indeed, for purposes of publication,
this would be a good rule to adopt with all physical mediums.
We presume that no Spiritualist wants it made easy and pleasant for
mediums to appear as ghosts, or to bring down upon the movement here
the blows which uncritical credulity have brought upon it in America.
A letter from the Hon. A. Aksakof informs us that he expects Dr.
Slade to reach St. Petersburg about the close of this month.
Mr. Stainton-Moses’s paper on slate-writing, to be read before the
Psychological Society, is postponed from Thursday, November 15th, to
Thursday, December 6tb, at 8.30 p.m.
The Ghost of Mohammed.—In the T)aily Telegraph of Monday last
i is the following telegraphic announcement“ Great excitement prevails
at Constantinople, which has been increased by a rumour that the
Prophet has appeared to the Saltan commanding him to conclude peace.”
It would be interesting to know under what circumstances it is alleged
this appearance took place.
THE SPlftlTtJALIST.
234
THE SUPERIORITY OF EXPERIMENT TO CONTROVERSY.
Mr. Serjeant Cox’s opening presidential address to the
Psychological Society on the 1st November, printed in last
week’s Spiritualist, is a model of precision and sharply
defined outline. Its perusal made me feel as if I had
walked into daylight and fresh air, after wandering about
among catacombs of dead bones, built up into all manner
of fantastic shapes by materialists and metaphysical non¬
materialists alike. • .
Since thought, whatever it may be, began, have we not
had endless controversy for and against the existence in
man of aught but phenomena due to the collocation of
molecules in certain order and in certain ways condi¬
tioned ? If evidence on either side had been within reach,
would discussion ever have arisen, or at all events been
perpetuated to this day, and is it not manifest to the most
ordinary reflection that inference, deduction, argument,
opinion, wishes, and expectations are alike vain and useless
as applied to the subject ?
Has any one ever seen his own or any other person’s con¬
sciousness of existence and individuality, or any entity
present with it or acting as its abode, save the body so-
called in this life, or any entity claiming to be the abode
of this continued consciousness after death ? Modern
and ancient literature and history, I say, abound with
stories of appearances claiming to be the spirit sometimes
of the living man, sometimes of him whose body had been
returned to the dust, from which it came, in some instances,
thousands of years ago, in some, the last century or year,
nay, even yesterday or to-day.
The Psychological Society has been organised, we are
told, to collect and patiently scrutinise such evidences,
statements, and records—past, present, and to come—-as
the only conceivable means of giving us, as presently con¬
stituted, the slightest hope of any knowledge, whether or
not this life is the be-all and the end-all here and here¬
after.
Is there anything derogatory to the dignity either of
philosopher, or man of common sense, in calmly prose¬
cuting such inquiry, especially at this time, when grave
serious men are asserting that they have seen, heard,
and touched things quite outside our ordinary experience,
speaking, walking, and acting on matter around ? When
students of the Ptolemaic doctrine believed in cycles and
epicycles, in crystalline spheres in which constellations,
stars, and planets were set and carried round with the.
revolution of these spheres, the one outside or above the
other, Tycho Brahe did not believe or disbelieve, dispute,
assert and argue, but he built himself an observatory at
Uraniaburg, and studied the apparent movements in the
heavens for himself; he observed and recorded, measured
and computed.
Copernicus afterwards dealt with these recorded facts,
and evolved from them, and not from dogma and theories,
the true story of the firmament. Kepler and Newton
followed, filling up the volume of which Tycho had pre¬
pared the frontispiece, and Copernicus written the preface.
Is it of less moment to us to deal with these appearances
—“ apparitions,” if you please ?—and find out, if we can,
whether they are realities, however strange and contrary to
previous experience or prejudice, or discover the fraud,
delusion, or trick, and expose them to the world, throwing
us, in such case, no further back, however, than the point
whence we started, waiting for things still hoped for, for
evidence of things not yet seen.
If any one desires to study the dicta of the materialistic
school on this question of human origin, destiny, and
capability of knowledge, he will find the argument clearly
stated and exhaustively treated in Professor von Nagele’s
address On the Limits of Natural Knowledge, delivered re¬
cently at the meeting at Munich of the German Associa¬
tion. A translation is given in Nature for October, Nos.
416, 417. The perusal of it, after Serjeant Cox’s address
to the Psychological Society, has prompted this slight
attempt on my part to improve the occasion.
My inquiries have been for many years eagerly and ner¬
vously towards some resting-place for a persuasion that
there is life beyond the grave; but, unhappily for me, my
mind, brain, intelligence, or whatever else my consciously-
Hov. IP) 187?.
|| | thinking faculty may be termed, turns painfully to the con-
|j| viction that any evidence afforded by our senses tends to
|f| negative my hopes, and drive my aspirations to the wall.
j|l I see the mind, so-called, begin life with the body, feeble
ijl and flickering, ready to be blown out by the veriest breath
jjl of air thoughtlessly let in on it. I see it grow with the
| | growth of the body, reach maturity of power and activity
j|| with it, and then, like it, begin to decay, to lose with it its
|( | faculties, without even there being, so to speak, any mind’s
|) | dentist or oculist to supply intellectual teeth or spectacles,
|yj until we find ourselves “with a plentiful lack of wit,
jj| together with most weak hams,” “sans teeth, saws sense,
h i saws everything ”—ready to totter, in a second childhood,
R(j to sometimes a not unwished-for grave.
|I1 With such unwelcome persuasions, what would I, or any
h| one else with my aspirations, not give for one plain
| | satisfying appeal to one’s sense of touch, sight or sound, on
| j | the part of one living soul outside the body with which we
h| had been once familiar? Can such things be in rerum
K | natura, or are they merely in part such stuff as dreams are
|j | made of—in part fraud, delusion, and a snare ? r I wish to
h | find out, and so, like the drowning man, I cry for “ help.”
II ' B.
| | DR. SLADE IN BERLIN,
ji j To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
!j | Sir,—We have been here a week. So far there has not
|jj been a single failure. Yesterday the President of Police,
j I with a German Baron, both fine, elderly gentlemen, brought
|j| their slates and got writing on them. The Baron held the
| j slate alone when it was written upon.
| | After the sitting they left to dine with the Emperor. On
|j| the Baron being told that Professor Helmholtz had declined
K | M. Aksakof’s invitation to be present at a seance, he seemed
jj| quite surprised ; he said he would take his slate with him
jj j and call on the professor, and tell him what he thought
m about it.
jjj This morning Slade sat for Dr. Wittig and a representa-
|| tive of one of the chief Berlin newspapers. They were highly
| I interested.
j j | Spiritualists are working like beavers, in order to make
jjj the most of the opportunity while Slade is here. We are
jjj likely to remain here till the first of December. As soon as
j j the time of our departure; for St. Petersburg is fixed, I will
j j j let you know. The manifestations have never been so good
Ijl since we left New York as they have been since we came
jjj here; slates are filled with writing one after another in
| | German, French, and English. J. Simmons.
I j j Berlin, Nov. 8th, 1877.
)i M. Aksakof writes from St. Petersburg that the “ Strange Story”
(j which, we quoted from the Religio-Philosophical Journal, and the truth
j j of which we asked him to ascertain, is “ all humbug.” He says, also ;
) | “ There is no Professor Orlof here.”
jj A Difficult Pkoblem.—Mr. Epes Sargent writes, from Boston,
)j U.S.: “Your remarks (Oct. 19th) on ‘What is a Trustworthy
j i Medium ? ’ seem to me timely and just. Let us be sure we are right,
j | before we sweepingly repudiate powerful mediums through whom
) j tricky spirits may sometimes have operated. I think some of our
(| American ^Mn's&s are disposed to carry the thing too far. I had heard
i i all sorts of bad things about Watkins ; and yet see what I got!
) j When a pious member of the Church can give me the same, perhaps I
j j will give the pious member the preference.”
j | Mr. Williams’ Seances.—Mr. C. E. Williams usually obtains such
i j good manifestations when he is held hand and foot, that the National
) | Association of Spiritualists has relaxed its rule of permitting no seances
||: on its premises to be held in darkness. Dr. Carter Blake and Mr.
j | Harrison recently had a dark stance with Mr. Williams, in his rooms,
j | The manifestations were of the ordinary description. But at one
) i moment, when a form was talking loudly behind Dr. Carter Blake, and
(j at the same time touching him on the head, the cabinet, which nobody
) | was touching, was rattling and vibrating violently, although Dr. Blake
) j and a good-sized table were between the living form and the cabinet,
j i Miss Kislingbury’s Departure from America.—Miss Kislingbury,
) | secretary to the British National Association of Spiritualists, left New
j! York in the steamship Italy, on the eighth of November, so may be
| expected in London on Monday or Tuesday next. The weather has
) j been exceptionally boisterous during the past week, and the Atlantic
(| is the most stormy ocean in the world, so it is to be feared she is having
j - a rough passage. A fortnight before she left New York she was enter-
| tained by Mr. Newton, President of the New York Society of Spiritual-
| ists, who invited sixty friends to meet her. The December soiree of the
j j British National Association of Spiritualists will be held in her honour,
when doubtless an interesting narrative of her experiences will be given.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
235
Nov. 16, 1877.
THE SPIRIT LAND.
BY BABOO PEABY CHAKD MITTRA.
Transmigration was not known in India during the Rig
Veda period. The conviction of the immortality of the
soul was most vivid at that time, and was the subject of
the Upanishads and Darsanas. The recognition of the in¬
tervention of disembodied spirits, and the offering
of funeral cakes to the Petries, presuppose the existence
of the spirit land. According to the Rig Veda the mission
of the disembodied spirits is to protect the good, to
attend the gods, and to be like them.” “ On the paths of
the fathers, there are eight-and-eighty thousand patriarchal
men, who turn back to sow righteousness, and to succour
it.” A soul entering the spirit land is “guided by
spirits of the intermediate stations in the divine realm
which it has to pass over.” These early teachings of the
Ayras clearly show the belief that spirits hold communion
with mortals, for the purpose of gradually spiritualising
them, and thus extending the spiritual kingdom of God.
This is man’s mission too, but with souls not emancipated
and purified, we can but very imperfectly carry out the
object.
Some of our Upanishads speak of the “ true heaven ” be¬
ing in the soul. Those who possess such souls find pro¬
gression easier in disembodied states. Subsequent to the
Rig Veda period, the transmigration doctrine was largely
adopted in India, as it was thought to be absolutely neces¬
sary for the requirements of those who had not attained the
spiritual state, and who through the imperfect splendour
of their souls had not known the Infinite God. The light
which we, in modern India, have received, inclines us not
to accept the doctrine of transmigration or reincarnation,
because we know psychically—through our own souls—
that progression in the spirit land is more natural, and
more to the advantage of the spirits, than progress through
transmigratory existences. Besides, we find spirits of
different spheres existing in the spirit land for years. The
Ramayana bears testimony to the spirit land. When Sita
passed through the ordeal, and while Bama was consider¬
ing what to do, the spirit of his father Dasaratha appeared,
and testified to Situ’s purity, then “ home to heaven exult¬
ing flew.”
In Mahabharut, our other great epic poem, Narida de¬
livered a message to Yudhisthera, from the spirit of his
father Pandu, that he should perform the Rajsuya Yagua.
After the great war on the plain of Shanseur, and the de¬
struction of all the combatants except a few, Dhrotastra,
the father of Duryadhana, was exceedingly grieved at the
losses, and being desirous of ending his life by intense
meditation on God, he, accompanied by his wife, Kimti,
mother of the Pandavas, and his half-brother, retired to a
thick forest on the bank of the Ganges. There Yudhisthera,
his brothers, Drowpadi Sobhadra, and all the widow ladies
of the royal family, came to pay their respects to the old
Maha Rajah, and those who, like him, were leading the life
of ascetics. Vyas, a rishi, and other saints, happened to
be there. Dhrotarastra confessed that he felt still much
grieved at the death of his sons, grandsons, and friends,
and his sorrow would not be mitigated until their spirits
appeared.
Yyas was a medial saint, and asked all the persons
present to come to the bank of the river. It was twilight;
men and women sat in perfect serenity. Yyas put the
limpid water of the river on his body, and as he invoked
the spirits of the heroes, there was a tumult in the river,
similar to what had been heard at the battle. Shortly
afterwards, the heroes, dressed as before, and with the
forces at their command, appeared. The only difference
was that they were devoid of pride, enmity, and selfishness.
They had garlands on their necks, ornaments on their
ears, and shone with upsards.* The gaudkar was sung
before them and the rhapsodists chanted minstrelsy. Yyas
then, by force of his spiritual powers, gave to Drothorastra,
who was born blind, inner vision. The Maharaja saw his
sons. His wife, Gaudhari, seeing her sons from whom she
had been separated by death, thrilled with boundless joy.
The spirits, sinless and free from pride, spoke with the
[mortals—with father, mother, brother, cousins, wives, as
devas (gods). This dispelled .alb selfish and antagonistic
feeling, and the spirits and mortals revelled in an ocean
of felicity. The night was spent happily. There was no
grief, no fear, no discontent, no humiliation. As soon as
the morning dawned, the spirits embraced their mortal
friends, and, taking leave of Yyas, disappeared. Some
went to (1) Denaloka, some to (2) BraTimaloka, some to (3)
Barunloka, some to (4) Kuveraloka, and spme to (5) Surj-
loka, which clearly implies, that the spirit world is composed
of different spheres.*
The king, to whom the Mahabharut was read, asked,
“ How is it that persons who die can appear bodily ?” The
answer is, that the soul is immortal, and does not at once
entirely forsake the material elements. As long as the
effects of the acts done in this life do not die away, the
spirits live in earthly forms. When the acts die away,
there is a change in the forms.
Another important question is—Is every one who dies
and enters the spirit world in a spiritual state ? Does the
liberation of the soul from the body make it thoroughly
immaterial ? If such were the case, there would be no
room for progression, and the teachings of all spirits would
be alike. But we find that they vary, and it is quite clear
that the higher will be its destiny the more attenuated the
; soul is, and the more it is free not only from the nervous
I system, but from all thoughts and feelings emanating
| therefrom and from all that is earthly.
In the last book of Mahabharut there is an account of
| the ascension of Yudhisthera to heaven while in the flesh.
| The first person he saw was Durgodhona, seated on a
i throne, shining like a sun, and surrounded by gods. This
! exasperated Yudhisthera, as Durgodhona was his greatest
I enemy, and had done him all the mischief conceivable.
| Narida reproached Yudhisthera, and said, “There is no
i enmity in heaven. It is true that Durgodhona is your
| greatest enemy, but he was free from fear, and bravely
| died: you should now receive him as a friend.” Yudhis-
I thera solicited the gods to allow him to go where his
| brothers, wife, and relatives were living. A heavenly mes-
| senger was ordered to show him the place. He was brought
j to a dismal region where he heard the weeping of his
I brothers. He was moved, and said, “I will live here,
j and do not seek for heaven.” “ God virtue ” instantly
i appeared before him, and said, “ I have tried you several
| times. You have remained unshaken; come with me,
| near the Mundakini river, and bathe in it.” As soon as
| Yudhisthera bathed, his natural body left him, and he
! assumed a spiritual form. Grief and enmity left him. He
I then met Durgodhona and his other cousins in a different
| way, and saw the spirits of his brothers and others, living
! in different spheres.
i Calcutta, October 4th, 1877.
We expect the book of choice samples of Spiritualistic literature, very
handsomely printed and bound, and which we are about to publish,
| will be one of the most popular works ever issued in connection with
Spiritualism. It is rapidly approaching completion.
The Baron and Baroness von Vay contemplate revisiting England
during the next London season, so Spiritualists in this country are
likely to have the pleasure of again seeing these warm and true friends
of the movement, sooner than was expected. They will find many
friends to welcome them who during their visit last autumn were out of
town.
I Spiritualism in Holland.—A circular from Mr. A. J. Riko, The
Hague, informs us that a lady there, in private life, has developed as
a powerful physical medium. Spirit lights, raps, “ heavy bumps,”
and the moving of solid objects, occur through her mediumship. She
falls into a deep trance during the stances, and is awakened only by
mesmeric passes. Mr. Martheze recently witnessed the manifestations,
and expressed interest in them.
Brixton Psychological Society.—A well-attended seance, with Mr.
Morse trance medium, was held at Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald’s, 6, Lough-
borough-road-north, Brixton, on Thursday evening, November 1st.
The subject of the discourse selected, after the entrancement of the
medium, was one suggested by the hon. secretary: “ The Relative
Yalue, in an Educational Sense, of the Objective and Subjective Phe¬
nomena of Spiritualism.” The controlling power then poured from the
lips of the medium a remarkable composition of subtle analysis, logical
deduction, and convincing argument; there was no hesitation from
; first to last.
* Celestial sphere; 2. God sphere; 3. God of Water sphere; 4. God of Wealth sphere
5. Sun sphere.
* Aeriel beings.
236
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 16, 1877.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS. jj
SOIREE MUSICALS AND AN ADDRESS BT MR. CALDER. jv
On Wednesday, last week, the first of the series of winter monthly soirees | (
of the National Association of Spiritualists took place at 38, Great j
Russell-street, London. The rooms were well filled on the occasion. j
Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the Association, opened the pro- 11
ceedings by delivering the following address:— ij
“ Ladies and Gentlemen,—It has been suggested that I should offer j
you a short address this evening, and I have chosen for a subject some- | [
thing touching the heart of Spiritualism, an aspect which should at all | {
times commend itself to us; and although we are assembled chiefly for !
music, recitation, and song, I am persuaded you will not think it inap- i
propriate to listen also to some thoughts concerning the inner life. We j
may properly take great pains to investigate physical phenomena, but j
you will readily concede that it is more important to consider phenomena I
appertaining to spiritual affections, for the first has a transitory interest, |
while the last pertains to both earth and heaven. The formation of a
high standard of morality is the chief justification of Spiritualism. It ||
is a study requiring the exercise of the highest refinement. It is the i
grandest of arts, for it comprises the conquest of self—the rarest of ||
achievements. As those who have chosen the path of eternal progress, j
you will receive with indulgence any suggestions from a wanderer on a |
difficult and dangerous road. j
“Spiritualism is eminently calculated to develops our higher nature. |
Such was the design of primitive Christianity ; but the introduction of j
dogma spoilt the scheme. To be satisfied of this, we have only to re- j
member the ruptures in the Romish Church, and the numerous divisions |
among Protestants, and we shall not fail to perceive that their methods i
are erroneous. Their narrowness suppressed freedom—the parent of all j
true excellence. Hence Spiritualism, long neglected, springs up again j
before the world with its marvellous potent verities. The position of j j j
the Spiritualist is pregnant with peculiar significance. He declares that j j
he possesses knowledge of a remarkable character. He is acquainted I j
with powers and forces to which the outside world are wholly strangers. j
He possesses gifts which surpass everything to which they can pretend. j
Such being the fact, what a serious moral responsibility rests upon us, 11
for the question naturally arises, What use do we make of these powers, |
advantages, and gifts ? In what manner do We employ these extraor- j
dinary materials for improvement ? Are we looking at the phenomena j
as so many things to amuse ? or do they strike us with sufficient awe to j j
create a wholesome influence on life’s course, causing us to fulfil our j j
duties with increasing fidelity and cheerfulness, so as to produce a larger | [
measure of satisfaction, and thus advance the aim of the great spiritual I
kingdom. The Spiritualist, above all others, should know the nature of j j
the property he possesses in the soul or spirit. He should never re- j j
semble the prodigal, of whom it is recorded that after a period of extreme j j
destitution and misery he “ came to himself,’’ and then hastened to his j| j
father. He had been such a stranger to the voice within, that he j j
lost sight altogether of that light which guides, and no wonder j j
he was famished, and reduced to beggary and wretchedness, j j
Nor should the Spiritualist be governed by the strange notions of the j i
Jews regarding sacrifices, to attain purification and safety, ideas adopted j j
by the Christians in their great sacrifice, which they announce as once j j
for all. To convince you that the product of a sacrificial system does |
not free its votaries from evil, we have only to reflect on the numerous j j
instances of persecution set on foot by the good people supporting these i
systems. For belief in any sacrifice, however exalted, as a remedy is delu- j
sive; a lulling the soul into false security; a deceptive habit of ease, full of i
unprofitableness, for how is it possible that trust in another can save ? ]
And yet the lines on which the Spiritualist may safely travel were nobly j i
laid down by that greatest of historical teachers, the medium Jesus I
Christ. If belief in His method is meant by the Church, then we |
hasten to agree, for it cannot reasonably be doubted that the instruction I
of Jesus Christ is well able to influence conduct for good. But to draw |
closer to our point. "We all know that physical health is best main- j
tained by the observance of hygienic laws. It is not belief in any j
person; it is not faith in a physician that cures. In like manner it is j
true as regards spiritual life; the well-being of the spirit depends j
just as much on scientific treatment as the well-being of the body. j
Right doing is a high art. It is the chiefest of arts, seeing how j
much it has to accomplish. The culture of spiritual life is the |||
highest occupation, exalting the whole man. How is this work best j
accomplished? Meditation is a powerful aid to spiritual growth. i
Like water to a plant, or as the dew of night is to the grass on a j
sultry day, so is meditation to a soul in the whirl of this busy world. j
If we stand apart each day from the noise and tumult around, we j
commune, as it were, with ourselves. We come more in contact with i
the unseen, and we appeal to their aid. We experience by this very j
abstraction and silence, a deepening effect on the soul. We obtain a ! j
better opportunity for fixing our hearts on important truths. The ! j
seed of life requires to sink deep into the soil of our minds before it j I
can take root, so as to bring forth something more than leaves. I !
Knowledge of the right sort must be grounded into a firm base. I i n
refer not to such meditation as leads to senseless reverie and asceticism, j j!
but to that established on intelligence, and which arouses the spirit to i j
activity, quickening it into life, ever improving and progressive. ! j
Pythagoras well knew the value of such study, when in his golden j i
rules he says, “ Never yield thyself to sleep till thou hast gone over all j
the doings of the day, and asked thyself, ‘ In what have I transgressed, |) |
what have I done, what good have I left undone.’” He would test jlj
every action by bringing it daily before the light of conscience, the j(j
constant monitor within. The solemn, ever-living power, and repre- |)i
sentativeof truth, with which each one is furnished, and which, if we |(!
only took pains to obey, we should soon discover the immensity of its Hi
value and importance. Its usefulness increases with its employment; j
for in the conscience lies the light to guide and shape our conduct, . j i
truth being the oil with which it should be fed. If we would but ! 1
follow that light with sincerity, it would prove a divinity to educate,
protect, and lead into the way of safety. It imparts a joy richer
than the possession of wealth. A satisfaction sweeter than all things,
and with which nothing can compare—more enduring than all, for it
carries us beyond this life. And this light burns brighter and more
powerfully as it is used. It increases in beauty, strength, and excellence,
endowing us with the requisite power to carry us through the world
by brightening and illuminating pur whole existence. Having, then,
this invaluable instrument for our guide, let us steer clear of the things
which make for evil, and which may be recognised as soon as they are
placed in the light of conscience. Avoiding all such impediments to
progress, let us set our minds and hearts diligently to the cultivation
of qualities which brighten our spiritual health, the chief elements for
this condition being kindness, humility, moderation, industry, sobriety,
charity, purity, peace, and love. The culture of these great principles,
decisive in their nature and bearing, is the most interesting
side of Spiritualism. An active daily introspection, a careful ques¬
tioning of the soul, an unflinching scrutiny into its thoughts,
words, purposes, and acts; a weeding-out of the evil, and a steady
strengthening of the good. By this process of cleansing and main¬
tenance, honestly and sincerely pursued, the spirit obtains that self-
control so necessary for safety. It attains a vigour which combats
successfully with evil, and finally receives its reward in heavenly
wisdom, the true dignity of spiritual life. This, I humbly think, is the
phenomenon we should prize and study to promote, for it concerns the
construction of character. It aims at the wealth we should acquire for
our souls, it constitutes the true riches for our spirits. The patient
searching for, and on all occasions practising these virtues, assimilating
them into our souls, nourishing our spirits with them, keeps us in
spiritual well-being. We should have a clear and distinct knowledge
of the path of duty, and invest our minds with the discipline of
obedience to that duty. We should persevere and strengthen ourselves
in it, so as to attain unto that higher life, and thus make real progress
towards a superior nature. We live in times of tremendous hurry, in
which there is great confusion and moral laxity; but amidst all the
bnstle, it is a consolation to feel that the Spiritualist enjoys abundant
evidence of spirit-life ; not by hearsay, but by personal experience, he
knows that there is a Holy Spirit, and, knowing this, he should at all
times, and under all circumstances, keep close to that divine and sacred
agent. Does he flag and weary, does he doubt and feel dejected, let
him strengthen the union with the good Spirit, and his courage will
revive. All this implies not indifference, but a strong conviction of the
profound importance of the subject. We who know something of the
reality of the unseen may reasonably be expected to strive earnestly iu
the pursuit of spiritual-mindedness, ever doing that which is good and
true, undisturbed by corrosive cares, which are prolific of evil. In a
word, loyalty to the Father of Spirits, and love to man—his spiritual
children—comprise our whole duty: real, pure, modest, humble, and
quiet working of the will of God being our rule; and the sooner
religion is freed from all the mystery of creeds, fashion, and forms, and
the simple constituents of moral and spiritual culture are directly
applied to life’s daily occupations, tfie better will be the condition of
mankind—for they will then become the possessors of a plain and
uniform process for self-government, and not be subject to feeble
opinions and equally frail fancies, whereon, finding no foothold, they
are pretty sure to drift from duty, and perhaps are precipitated into
dire mischief, if not irretrievable ruin.”
At the conclusion of his address Mr. Calder sat down, amid loud ap¬
plause, after which those assembled were favoured with some excellent
singing, music, and recitations, by the Misses Withall, Mr. Ernest A.
Tietkins, Mr. Dietz, Miss Ella Dietz, Miss Younge, Mr. Kitcat, and Mr.
W. Edmiston.
FORTNIGHTLY MEETINGS.
The first of the fortnightly winter meetings this season, of the mem¬
bers and friends of the National Association of Spiritualists, was held
last Monday night, under the presidency of Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald,
M.S.Tel.E. There was a large attendance.
The Chairman congratulated the listeners that Mr. Stainton-Moses
had undertaken the management of the winter meetings for the Research
Committee. (Applause.)
The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., said that good papers might be
expected; for instance, there would be one from Mr. Massey, and another
from Dr. Wyld, both vice-presidents of the Association.
The Rev. Thomas Colley, late Curate of JPortsmouth, then read a
paper on Recent Developments of Form Manifestation.” He said
that they were more than form manifestations, they were true f® ma¬
terialisations.” He then gave an account of phenomena as previously
published once or twice by him, to the effect that he had on three occa¬
sions seen living, materialised spirits, coming from and returning to Dr.
Monck’s body. He added that a letter placed near Dr. Monck was
carried to a friend of his seventy miles off in five minutes.
Mr. Thomas Shorter, late editor of The Spiritual Magazine, said that
at one of the seances spoken of by Mr. Colley three persons were
present, and at another four. Although nobody questioned Mr. Colley’s
good faith for a moment, the facts were so transcendant that all the
others should have given their testimony, and without previous mutual
comparison of notes, since small agreements and divergencies would be
alike interesting. The fullest possible evidence should be given about
the carrying of the letter, by means of the written and signed statements
of the witnesses at both ends of the line, and the exact times should be
given.
Mr. Tapp wanted to know the amount of light in which the forms
were evolved.
Mr. Colley said that the light was worst at the second seance, but
better at the first one, when he could have read the smallest newspaper
print. At the last seance it was best; they had then the full light of
the lamp.
Nov. 16, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
237
Mr. Tapp asked what lamp.
Mr. Colley said that it was a new small kind of paraffin lamp, which
had just appeared in the ironmongers’ shops. By the light it gave at
the last seance, a newspaper could be read in any part of the room.
A listener present said that he had recognised one of these spirits as
the late Samuel Wheeler.
Dr. Carter Blake, while not pretending to be a scholar in any Arabic
dialect further east than Morocco, would be very glad to learn from Mr.
Colley the precise signification of the word Mahedi or Mahedi (Maheda
plural), which had been frequently used in the discussion; and also
whether any “ form ” called himself the Mahedi, or was called so by
others.
Mr. Colley replied that he did not understand Arabic, and did not
know the meaning of the word.
Mr. Stainton-Moses announced that he would read a paper on the
same subject at the next meeting.
The proceedings then closed.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday night a Council meeting of the National Association of
Spiritualists was held. Present—Mr. A. Calder, in the chair; Mr. H.
Withall, Miss Withall, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. R.
Pearce, Miss Houghton, Mr. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Pearson, Mrs. Maltby,
Mr. Mawson, Mr. Walhouse, Mr. A. Joy, and Mr. Morell Theobald,
Most of the business transacted related to the internal affairs of the
Association.
Mr. E. T. Bennett moved—“ That a committee be appointed to take
into consideration any means of increasing the usefulness and efficiency
of the Association during the coming year, and to report.”
This was seconded by Mr. R. Pearce, and supported by Mr. Dawson
Rogers, who, however, suggested that the resolution should be thus
amended—“ That a committee be appointed to take into consideration
the financial prospects of the Association, and any means of increasing
its usefulness and efficiency during the coming year, and to report.”
Mr. Bennett agreed to the resolution as thus amended, and it was
carried unanimously.
Mr. Bennett then proposed that the committee should consist of Mr.
Fitz-Gerald, Mr. A. Joy, Mr. Mawson, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. Morell
Theobald, and Mr. Dawson Rogers.
Mr. Dawson Rogers then proposed that Mr. Bennett should be added
to the above committee.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald said that of course the usual clause giving them
power to add to their number would be added.
Mr. Dawson Rogers said that it had better not be added. If Mr.
Fitz-Gerald wished to propose anybody else he could do so there and
then.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald said that he had nobody in his mind to propose at the
moment.
The committee was then appointed, including Mr. Bennett, and
without power to add to its number of members.
Mr. Walter Moseley was thanked for his presentation of interesting
books to the library.
It was resolved to authorise the holding of dark seances.
The report of the Finance Committee showed that when the re¬
mainder of the Guarantee Fund was paid up, the receipts and expenses
of the year would about balance each other.
After the consideration of various other matters the proceedings
closed.
Spiritualism, at Wandsworth.—(From our own Correspondent.)—
Apropos of the report in last week’s Surrey Comet respecting the recent
“extraordinary phenomena” at a stance held in Richmond, I am
authorised to give the name and address of a gentleman—Mr. Alex.
Thorn, Yew Cottage, Wandsworth—at whose house a weekly seance
has been held for several months past, and to which I, as an “ un¬
believer,” was invited to attend. The number in the circle was generally
six—four gentlemen and two ladies. No professional assistance what¬
ever was engaged, and the sole object of the sitters was to inquire into
the truth or absurdity of what are known as spiritualistic phenomena.
For the first few sittings nothing of particular interest occurred, but
after this time the hands of two of the sitters were spasmodically con¬
vulsed, and described peculiar and rapid gyrations on the table—and
sometimes in the air—which all agreed could not have been “ per¬
formed.” Indeed my own hands were at times so violently moved as to
produce at first a noise that could have been heard at any part of the
house. Sometimes it gradually died away, while at others it stopped
instantly. Although not yet a Spiritualist, but only an examiner as to
cause and effect, I must admit that these phenomena, or manifestations,
were not produced by natural means—or, rather, mechanical means—
nor were they the result of nervousness ; for on one occasion, just prior
to some of the loudest demonstrations, I passed several jokes upon
Spiritualists and Spiritualism, and suggested that if any taps were*
heard, they would probably proceed from the spirit of Mrs. Tappin. At
another time, while my hands and those of another sitter were upon the
planchette, the signature “ Edw. Rawlings ’’ was clearly written. One
of those present then stated that he had a letter that morning from a
Mr. Charles Rawlings, and that as the letter had a black border, the
signature was probably that of his brother (deceased). At present I am
far from being convinced that the phenomena I have named are due to
Spiritualism, or that spirits had anything to do in the matter; but of
this I am certain, that whether they be assigned to animal magnetism,
electricity, or other scientific cause, the time is not wasted in making an
investigation. Now that Spiritualism is exciting so much interest, some
remarks concerning it may be acceptable, and at some future time I can
furnish some interesting notes on the subject.”—SWrey Comet,
MR. AND MRS. BLISS.
| Full details of the imposture practised upon Spiritualists by Mr.
and Mrs. Bliss, of Philadelphia, in consequence of too much credulity
in accepting so-called manifestations presented only on the premises
of the medium, have recently been printed in these pages. The
I following is the charge of Judge Briggs to the jury, and is a model of
impartiality in dealing with a spiritualistic case, such as we should
like to see imitated by English legal functionaries :—
This bill of indictment contains two counts. The first alleges that
I the defendants, with Capt. Harrison and Miss Snyder, conspired to
i j cheat and defraud Diesinger and Wolff and others to the grand inquest
II unknown, and, in pursuance of such conspiracy, actually did cheat and
J | defraud them by false pretences, without setting out what the pretences
i were. The second charges the same thing, and, in addition, specifies
| particularly the false pretences resorted to to accomplish the fraud in
i obtaining the money mentioned in the indictment. You have patiently
i listened to the unfolding of this case for nine days, and perchance now
! have fixed conclusions with reference to the guilt Or innocence of the
i defendants ; yet it is proper, before you put your convictions in legal
i form, that I should define the crime charged against the defendants,
i Criminal conspiracy is a combination or confederation of two or more
i persons to commit an illegal act, or to perform a legal act by illegal
11 means, or in an illegal way. The crime is effected the moment the
\! confederation is complete, though nothing be done pursuant to the con-
(1 spiracy. For the purpose of repressing crimes of this character, the
(| law moves upon the criminals the moment they jointly form the criminal
| purpose. But this bill goes further. It alleges that the defendants not
| only conspired with Capt. Harrison and Miss Snyder, but they executed
| the conspiracy by cheating and defrauding Diesinger and others, by the
| false and fraudulent contrivances and pretences specially mentioned in
| the bill of indictment. Now it is for you to determine, from all the
i evidence in the case, whether the defendants are guilty or not.
I The testimony is fresh in your minds, and doubtless more vividly
(| impressed on yours than mine. Then take the concurring and con-
! flicting statements of the witnesses, and extract the truth from them.
| Your duty is to reconcile them, if possible; if that cannot be done, you
(i must cut the tangle by your verdict, in determining which is true. I
11 ought to refer to two of the witnesses for the Commonwealth, for they
( I are self-convicted conspirators, and because they are criminal in one
j | respect the law supposes they may be in another. The law requires me
! to say that you should scrutinise their testimony with great circumspec-
j tion. Having done so, and you find it to be true, you should accept it,
(j though it comes from the lips of confessed criminals. For truth is
j truth, without reference to the source from which it emanates. In
II referring to these witnesses, I do not desire to draw your attention from
I the other testimony, for you should take the evidence in its entirety,
) and if you are convinced the Commonwealth has sustained her accusa-
( tions, you should, of course, convict the defendants. Let us, then,
( inquire whether the defendants, by their advertisements and representa¬
tions, have in any way falsely and fraudulently represented themselves as
(i being gifted with the power of bringing back here the spirits of those
| who have passed beyond the grave, and if so, whether Diesinger and
1 Wolff, and those who witnessed the exhibitions, believed in them, and
\ I were cheated and defrauded by them.
(! Were these alleged spirits real or illusory ? Strange as it may seem
j | to you, I am compelled to submit that question for your determination
] | in point of fact, like any other question raised by the evidence. The
j | defendants and their witnesses claim they were real, and this claim the
[ i witnesses for the Commonwealth deny. In passing upon this the law
(I raises no presumption in favour of such a claim. The law only presumes
I those things to be true which are presented by men in the various re-
); lations of life. He who claims more than this must prove it; presump-
) ] tion will not help him. The defendants’ claim is based upon supernatural
(| power; before you accept this, the testimony should be clear and con-
11 vincing to you. 1 repeat, it cannot be presumed. If the defendants
11 have not proved it the pretence is a false one, and they should be con-
(| victed if by it their victims were defrauded. Nor does the fact that those
H who were defrauded believed the illusion to be true, and still believe it,
|! make the least difference. They still are entitled to protection. The
\ j Commonwealth sits like a merciful mother over her children, and
| [ I protects those who err alike with those who do not. It is not a question
j j j whether Spiritualism is true or not, but whether the expedients resorted
i | j to by the defendants were true or false. Spiritualistic belief to the
ill sincere believer is just as precious in the eye of the law as yours is to
j (| you. Nor is he to be denounced by bigotry, nor ridiculed by the sceptic,
i jl For four centuries heresy was a crime, and history informs us that in
| j | the Netherlands alone during the reign of Charles the Fifth fifty
! (| thousand were hanged, beheaded, buried alive, or burned for religious
Ijy opinion. Our laws are founded on the rock of religious toleration—
j/i religious tests are prohibited. We have no Church of State. The
m organic law of commonwealth protects all men in the worship of
Kj Almighty God according to the dictates of their own consciences. Hence
|) | I say I have no more right to denounce the sincere Spiritualist than I
|( j have to denounce the sincere Catholic, Protestant, or Jew. It is claimed
I ji that there are five millions of Spiritualists in the United States. If
|) | this is so, what a field for the operation of the impostor! Their very
i (| numbers make them respectable, and appeal to us for protection against
\)\ the imposition and frauds of unscrupulous men.
j/j What have we on earth so valuable that we would not give it to
i l i bring back to us in sure communion the spirits of our departed relatives ?
j) i How precious the thought to those who believe such can be done ? The
j / j enormity of the crime charged against the defendants can only be appre-
j (i dated in the light of the incontestable proof that there are those who
[} j have this faith and the Commonwealth’s accusation that the defendants
238
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Nov. 16, 1877.
have trifled with feelings so sacred. Any man. or set of men committing
such a crime should be punished without mitigation.
Distinguished men have given their adhesion to this faith. The late
Judge Edmonds, of the New York Court of Appeals, was its outspoken
advocate. So was the late United States Senator Tallmadge, from the
same State, and no criticism could abate his zeal. Robert Dale Owen
was a firm believer. The late Professor Hare, of this city, whom we all
respected, gave it the support of his learning, intelligence, and character.
Others might be mentioned—indeed, names of our citizens whom we all
respect have been given during the trial as converts to Spiritualism, I
repeat, we should not ridicule the sincere believer, however much we
may differ with him. The enjoyment of religious opinion is a man’s
absolute right, and he must be protected in it. Hence I say to you
that Spiritualism is not on trial, but the sole question is, have the de¬
fendants, with Captain Harrison and Miss Snyder committed the crime
charged against them ? If they have, you should convict the defendants,
though their victims were Spiritualists, and some of them even now
believe that the representations were real. It may be that some of you
believe in this faith. If so, you should not hesitate to convict, if the
evidence satisfies you of the defendants’ guilt, because they, too, profess
the same belief. Should a Catholic juror hesitate to convict a guilty
defendant because he, too, is a Catholic ? or a Protestant juror to con¬
vict a guilty Protestant ? I present this feature of the case to you in
this light from a desire to impress upon you the fact that the sole ques¬
tion is the guilt or innocence of the defendants, and not whether Spirit¬
ualism should be accepted as a rational religious belief.
You have before you the dress which it is alleged that Miss Snyder
wore in these exhibitions; also the wig, moccasins, wreath and jewels,
which it is alleged that Captain Harrison hastily brought away
with him. Are these the paraphernalia there used, or have they
been made to be used in evidence to strengthen the Commonwealth’s
theory in order to convict these defendants? If the latter
then Miss Snyder and Capt. Harrison are, indeed, the worst
people at large. Was the trap-door cut, too, after the exposure by Capt.
Harrison in order to give colour of guilt to the defendants ? This is
the contention raised by the testimony, and which you must solve by
your verdict. But the defendants allege that the visitors were duly
informed at these seances that they were merely exhibitions, and no
pretence was made that the powers exercised were not natural. If that
were so, and the visitors understood them in that light, there was no
deception, and the defendants are not guilty.
Gentlemen, I have presented this case as fairly as I can. I have
spoken with some warmth to protect these Spiritualists from the hands
of impostors. I would be false to my oath of office and to my manhood
if I did not. Now, do not be moved a feather’s weight by the excite¬
ment surrounding the case. It is expected that you will reach your con¬
clusions alone from a careful analysis of the testimony. Justice, in her
chosen temple, must be administered without fear or favour. If you
have a doubt of guilt acquit the defendants, for so long as there is a
doubt they may be innocent or they may be guilty. The law never
speculates with liberty, and when she has to guess she guesses in favour
of innocence; But the doubt to acquit must be a manly doubt, one
springing from the testimony and which cannot be gotten rid of; not
specious or manufactured to rid you of an unpleasant duty, but such a
one as would cause an intelligent, cautious man to hesitate. When such
a dolibt arises then, and not till then, should you acquit on account of
the doubt. Now, gentlemen, take the case, and if you find the defend¬
ants guilty, so say without hesitation; if not guilty so declare with
equal determination.
The jury in the Bliss case, being sent for Monday morning, came
into court, and announced that they could not agree. Judge Briggs
then said:—
t( Gentlemen, this case is one, in view of the evidence, to which you
ought to have no difficulty in agreeing. Its weight, to my mind, is
overwhelming, but I cannot determine questions of fact.
ic The value of the evidence, its weight, and the credence of the wit¬
nesses are expressly for you, but I am not a figurehead. I have con¬
victions quite as positive as yours, and I have duties quite as positive
and infinitely more responsible than yours, for mine are varied, while
yours relate but to this one case. In presenting the case to you I was
as impartial as I could be.
“ In view of the overwhelming evidence, as it appeared to me, I did
not feel it necessary to refer to the testimony of but two witnesses—*
Captain Harrison and Miss Snyder; but a point has been reached
when I must, in order to prevent another trial and corresponding ex¬
pense, exert the power the law clothes me with.
“ The law permits me to express my opinion of their evidence, .but
my opinion does not bind the jury. All that they are required to do.
is to give them respectful consideration, and if they cannot agree with
them, they will manfully in their verdict say so. The proof in this
case is incontestable from every aspect of it that these seances were held
at No. 1027, Ogden-street, under the supervision, management, and
control, of Mr. afid Mrs. Bliss.
“ Equally incontestable is it from every aspect of the case that cer¬
tain representations were there made purporting to be materialised
spirits; the debatable question in the case being—Were they real
spirits or were they illusory ? I must say to you, as a faithful expo¬
nent of the law of this Commonwealth, that he who asserts that these
representations were beyond the natural, beyond that which is re¬
ceived in the common acceptation of men, must prove it by testimony
satisfactory to the jury.
“ The law presumes that it is not so ; the fact is that it is believed by
a sect; while that sect may be as much entitled to respect as ours, yet
their belief does not bind you and me, as ministers of the law.
“ They are entitled to protection from imposition. In passing upon
this question, take for instance ‘Swift Water.’ The defendants repre¬
sented that character to be there ; the defendants’ witnesses believed
it to be a character there ; it was the character of an Indian ; was it
real, material, personated by some live person on earth, or was it pre¬
sented through a spiritual agency ?
“ Mr. Hays, an intelligent gentlemen, said it was, and he doubtless
believed it; others believed it; but it is not what they believe, but
what you believe. If this principle were not to be maintained, we might
as well dispense with juries, and take the beliefs of witnesses as con¬
clusive. Witnesses are to be protected in their private conviction, but
you are not to be guided by that, unless the testimony makes you be¬
lieve it was a spirit.
“ In passing upon it, you have before you the moccasins and the
wig. Were they used in the representation of this spirit, or were they
manufactured for the purpose of convicting these defendants? Now,
who is Harrison ? He may be an adventurer, and is a self-convicted
conspirator, but if you believe what he says is true, you are not to
throw it out because he has been self-convicted.
“ He says he has been among the Cheyenne and Ute Indians, and
there learned the smattering of Indian language which he was enabled
to use in the representation of ‘ Swift Water.’ Indian words were used.
You must take all these into consideration. You heard what the
Wolffs said about their sister, Clara Wolff, and what Diesinger said.
You have the wreath presented to her, and other things worn by her.
Was all this paraphernalia manufactured for the purpose of convicting
these defendants ?
“ If not, then you have reached a point where the Commonwealth
completely annihilates the defence. If you believe these defendants
are not guilty, you will say so ; if you believe them guilty, you will
also say so, and thus preserve those who believe in Spiritualism from
the ravages of the imposture. Now, gentlemen, I have exhausted my
power. Retire again and consider these matters. I will be he here at
one o’clock, or before, if you agree.”
The foreman: “ Have I the power to explain the trouble here ? If
I have, I think we will be able to settle it at once.”
Judge Briggs : <{ You must not tell me how you stand. If there is
any difficulty in any point of evidence that I can enlighten you upon,
you can state it.”
The foreman: “ Not at all. This is a very curious thing.”
Judge Briggs : “Will you never be able to agree? ”
The foreman: “ Never.”
Judge Briggs : “ Take the sense of your colleagues, now, and report
to me truthfully what they say.”
The foreman then consulted with his fellow jurors.
Judge Briggs : “ Can you ever agree ? ”
The foreman : “ Never.”
Judge Briggs: “ Well, gentlemen, you have certain rights which I
must respect. I will discharge you, but, wait a minute, if ever a guilty
man walked into this court-room, the defendants are guilty.”
The, jury stood for conviction, eleven; for acquittal, one; the one
juror being James Dundass, hatter, No. 1321, Erankford-road. The
other jurors say that Dundass said : “If there ever was a guilty man
on the face of the earth, it is Bliss, but I will never send him to jail
on my verdict.”
Bliss was subsequently arrested on a charge of bigamy, and bailed.
Poetri).
ALONE.
Darkness above, below,
Darkness around,
No ray of light to pierce
The black profound.
Hither and thither tossed
On life’s rough wave,
No hand stretched out to guide,
No arm to save.
Oh! for some spirit-star—
Some beacon bright,
Pointing through trackless wastes
To realms of light.
Oh! for some spirit-voice,
Cheering my way,
Whispering sweet hope to me
Of coming day.
Drear must my journey be
Till it shall cease,
And death may bring to me
Light and release. R.
(KorresponTience.
[Great freedom, is given to correspondents,who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned;
copies should he kept by the writers.]
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY?
Sir,—“Aldebaran” and “Raphael” have fallen into an error in
their endeavour to correct the calculations of Mr. Massey. Indeed, the
gentleman who writes under the nom-de-plume of “ Raphael ” makes
confusion worse confounded by adding 14m. 14s. to the mean time given
(llh; 55m. a.m. of October 15th), for equation of time, after expressly
stating that it “is not necessary to be used with his Ephemeris or
Zadkiel’s.”
The true method of calculating the figure of the heavens for the given
moment of time is to subtract five minutes from the sidereal time at
noon, which was I3h. 36m. 29s., hence we find the right ascension of
the meridian to have been 16h. 31m. 29s.
Nov. 16, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
239
“ Astronomers, with a view of obtaining a convenient and uniform
measure of time, have recourse to a ‘ mean solar day,’ the length of
which is equal to the mean or average of all the apparent solar days in
a year. Sidereal time at mean noon is the angular distance of the first
point of Aries, or the true vernal equinox, from the meridian, at the
instant of mean noon : it is, therefore, the right ascension of the mean
Sun, or the time shown by a sidereal clock at Greenwich, when the
mean time clock indicates Oh. Om. Os.” (Hind).
The time given being mean time, and the Ephemeris being calculated
for mean time, it follows that the figure should be cast for the mean
time given, and not for apparent or solar time. This is the method
taught by Zadkiel in his Grammar of A strology (published in 1840), and
again in his Handbook of Astrology (published in 1861). At page 27 of
the former work we are instructed to “ correct the time also for the
equation of time, if the Ephemeris be not calculated to mean time ’,—
a rule which “ Raphael i reverses by adding the equation of time, not¬
withstanding that the Ephemeris is calculated to mean time, and, more¬
over, after stating that this correction u is not necessary.’’ Again, at
page 128 of the same work, in explanation of equation of time, Zadkiel
says, for “ example, the Ephemeris gives the equation of time for
November 1st, 1840, clock slow 16m. 17s.: hence, if the time of birth
by a watch was Nov. 1st, 1840, at 6 o’clock p.m., the apparent time
would be 6h. 16m. 17s. p.m., to which time all the planets’ places, &c.,
and the figure of the heavens, must be calculated. But this rule applies
only to Ephemerides, which are calculated to apparent time. In my
Ephemeris they are calculated to mean time, and do not require this
correction.”
Zadkiel’s works are acknowledged as the standard authorities on
astrology, and they were written by a gentleman who distinguished him¬
self as greatly in astronomy as in astrology. I enjoyed the privilege of
being taught the science by Zadkiel, and possessed his unintermitted
friendship for the space of fourteen years. I have calculated and
examined many hundreds of nativities and horary figures, and I have
always followed Zadkiel’s method, and also have proved its correctness
and reliability to my own satisfaction.
Thanking you, sir, in the name of the hundreds of thousands of
believers in astrology, for opening your valuable journal to a corres¬
pondence on this ancient science, I am, sir, yours obediently,
Alfred J. Pearce.
November 10th, 1877. ' ■■
Sir,—Allow me through your columns to acknowledge my obligation
to your correspondents “Aldebaran” and “Raphael,” for their friendly and
helpful letters. As it happens, I had originally drawn my scheme nearly
right, and (within a minute or two) in accordance with the corrections
made by them. Afterwards I fancied I had made an error in method,
and put it all wrong by alteration. “ Aldebaran” may be assured that I
will profit by his admonition, and will for the future keep my blunders to
myself. C. C. Massey.
PROVINCIAL NOTES.—NO. V.
Sir,—As the numbers of Spiritualists in the provinces are in excess
of their cobelievers in the metropolis, so the movement of Spiritualism
has larger proportions, as a whole, outside London than in it. It may
not be out of place, then, to consider in this letter a few of the methods
employed to further the progress of Spiritualism in provincial centres.
I will only deal here with the propagandist machinery which exists for
the dual purpose of placing the facts of spiritual phenomena, and the
teachings of the spirit-world, before the general public, on the one hand,
and Spiritualists on the other.
For the first-named purpose the private spirit circle has always been,
and will remain, ever the best method to pursue. Experimental investi¬
gation in private is an easy and safe road to tread. To obtain, however,
the highest results, it is important that mediumship be cultivated under
the most enlightened circumstances. Incipient mediumship should
never be paraded before strangers, or used for the purposes of convincing
the sceptical. Where mediumship exhibits distinct varieties of action
combined in one person, that part most easily manifested is likely
to be the most satisfactory. Better to cultivate one department well,
than have two or three, or more, phases indifferently developed. All
noted mediums have been made such through some well-defined
specialty. Also it should be borne well in mind that different forms of
spiritual manifestation require their own peculiar conditions. The
higher forms of seership, trance, or inspiration can hardly be expected
in the conditions suitable for physical phenomena, and if manifested
therein, they will lack the sharpness they would have under their own
conditions. The spirit circle is the first method employed, and when
used aright its success is great. As “ inquirers,” through experiences
had at the circle, become “ believers,” the number of Spiritualists in¬
creases in any given town, and generally the next move is to form a
local society, institute public stances, and establish Sunday services.
Of the wisdom of the first step there can be no doubt, since “ union is
strength,” and such societies give the cause a local habitation and a
name. Concerning the propriety of the second measure, grave doubts
may be adventured. Unless conducted under the most rigid regula¬
tions, and great discrimination in admitting visitors be exercised,
public stances at times do as much harm as good, especially if held in
the dark. Upon the value of the third step, much depends upon the
view one takes of Spiritualism. If it is admitted that moral, intel¬
lectual, and spiritual food can be derived from the teachings of the
spirits, and new light can be thrown upon old truths by the facts of
Spiritualism, then Sunday services of a religio-philosophical character
are requisite and useful. But should it be thought that Spiritualism is
yet too young, and its teachings too chaotic, for any systematic teaching
to be deduced, of course Sunday services could not be considered
necessities of the movement.
Turning to another subject, for a moment, let it be noted that Spirit-
|j ualism has been liberally abused, in whatever guise it has been pre-
II sented, by nearly all classes of society. At one time the strong arm of
I the law was invoked to put it down, and most provincial Spiritualists
|j have encountered much unpleasant local experience in the form of
i j social ostracism, pulpit denunciation, and press abuse. So long as they
II were scattered sheep, with no fold, they encountered the above treat-
| ment. As soon as they united, and presented a solid front, their oppo-
1) nents tried the “ letting alone severely” policy. But, unless organised,
i | the power of the local Spiritualists would not have been felt. The
ij| advantages of local societies are apparent, and it is only those who
Sjl ignore the best interests of the movement who denounce them. Local
i 11 self-government is a principle most valuable, and its good effects are
| patent. Spiritualists are right in applying the same principle to their
| movement, and declining to surrender their local rights and privileges to
11 any dictator, impersonal or other.
| j Returning to the main purport of this note, attention can be called to
11 one other method that has been and, limitedly, is in use. It was styled
i ] the District Conference Committee, and was first introduced at Man-
i Chester, afterwards appearing in Halifax, Newcastle-on-Tyne, and
i Chester-le-Street. Its originator and promoter conceived it a valuable
j organic method; but, alas ! it was not so. In Newcastle and Halifax
| the Conference Committees for the North of England and Yorkshire
I respectively are dead. In 'Manchester, the Lancashire District Com-
i mittee lives, and works in quite a different style to its first labours ;
i while in Chester-le-Street there is a certain amount of life still left.
II But, if conference committees, why not local societies ? Ah, well,
i | Shakespeare (was it not ?) is right in saying—
j I What in the captain’s but a choleric word,
I Is, in the sailor, flat blasphemy.
ij Why then have these committees languished? Simply because the
j | existing local societies were sufficient for the work. The practical lesson
II is that the present societies ought to be strengthened and encouraged,
| rather than weakened and depressed, by their legitimate energies being
| j depleted or perverted. In Spiritualism, as in all other causes, there is
I a normal ratio of extension that can never be successfully accelerated
i j for any length of time.
II It has been stated that societies are breaking up all over the king-
i) dom. Is it to be wondered at, when such things are discountenanced
j j and declared useless by the very people who profit most by their
| I existence, but who fail to see that every society is a solid nucleus for
| | a more perfect extension of the field of Spiritualism ?
] Take Manchester, where for many years a society has existed, or
j Newcastle-on-Tyne, or Glasgow ; in these places, and in others, where
| this anti-society policy has not prevailed, we find that Spiritualism is
j most known, its literature best circulated, and the cause the best
( respected; while local funds are, in such cases, disposed to the best ad¬
vantage of the work; for national purposes, or even purposes of all
kinds, beyond the limit of local action, liberal funds are always forth¬
coming when required. It may be, then, justly concluded that perma¬
nent local societies are of more use, in a propagandist sense, than fleet¬
ing ephemeral action, that is but born to die, and dying, leaves no
useful record.
With such permanences, Spiritualism becomes an organised army ;
without them, the cause is but a rope of sand. It is true, individual
;{ labour can do much, but associated enterprise can accomplish far more,
i In all cases where societies have failed it has been because the rules
i were subordinated to personal egotism. Then, not only has the society
| died out, but Spiritualism has followed suit. It is ridiculous to say
i organisation killed the cause in. any place—personal ambition is the
j guilty factor. Despotism ever leads to reaction, which, for a time,
| sweeps away all landmarks. Presently order is evolved out of chaos,
| the powers of the movement are again organised, and, if the past has
I succeeded in teaching us, there is no fear of history repeating itself,
II for, with right and order on our side, success must be ours. X.
j AN ARBITRARY EDITOR OF TOMBSTONE LITERATURE, AND THE LATE WILLIAM
DAVENPORT.
According to the following enclosed extract from a Sydney paper
{The Morning Herald) of September 21st, poor William Daven-
| port (medium), though deceased, is not to “ rest in peace,” if judged by
the decision of a Mr. Pearce, a man dressed in the brief authority of
the Church of England cemetery, at Sydney, who “ refused to have the
j Church of England cemetery desecrated ” by the presence of the words
“ May he rest in peace,” on a tombstone of that hallowed spot:—
To the Editor of the “ Herald."
Sir,—On reading Mr. Pearce’s letter in this day’s Herald, one would
imagine that I had gratuitously uttered a number of false and groundless
statements on the subject, without a shadow of justification. Mr. Peai’ce
sums up my offence as follows :—“ The honourable gentleman charges me
with scandalous behaviour towards Mrs. Davenport, and also of acting with
great vulgarity and rudeness towards that lady ; and in support of these re¬
marks he states that Mrs. Davenport wrote to the Colonial Secretary detailing
the circumstances—that the matter came before the Attorney-General, and
j that he had characterised my conduct as unwarrantable, and also, that the
j Minister for Lands had joined in condemnation of my conduct.” He then says
that I made these charges on “ insufficient grounds.” As I do not wish to lie
under any such imputation, I will resort to the proofs of the truth of all I said
in my place in Parliament, which proofs were not given in the published re¬
port of what I said, and the first witness I call will be Mrs. Davenport. She
says, in writing to the Colonial Secretary, “ In arranging for the erection of a
tomb over my husband’s remains, I have met with the most insulting treat¬
ment from Mr. Pearce.’.’ Again, “ Nothing could justify the insults fro which
I was subjected on visiting Mr. Pearce at his office.” Now, in order that the
public may judge what grounds this lady had for so charging Mr. Pearce, it
is necessary to state that she proposed to have inscribed upon her late hus¬
band’s tomb—“ May he rest in peace.” Mrs. Davenport says—“ At the line
‘ May he rest in peace,’ Mr. Pearce sneered, and said, * We can’t allow this ;
240
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 16, 1877.
•we don’t believe in praying for the dead,’ and, in the rudest and most offen- j (
sive manner, drew his pencil through it.” Now, this is admitted by Mr. I)
Pearce himself, namely, that he drew his pencil through the line, and although j) |
he may see nothing rude or offensive in such an act, still, to people who look ! /1
upon this line as the expression of an unhappy woman’s deepest and holiest |(i
feelings towards her dead husband, a little more refinement and delicacy in j) j
dealing with this lady would have been far more satisfactory, and, above all, |)^
the cavalier act of drawing the pen through a few words so inoffensive and so \U
innocent, just as if they had been an overcharge in some grocer’s account, | u
should have been religiously avoided. The other lines that came under the I \ ]
ban of Mr. Pearce were as follows, written by Mr. Ira Davenport, the brother |)|
of the deceasedI / j
“ To ‘William, from his brother Ira,— j) j
Dear brother, I would learn from thee, j) I
And hasten to partake thy bliss; j: :
To thy world 0! welcome me, j
As first I welcomed thee to this.”
What offended Mr. Pearce in those remarkably inoffensive lines it would be ! (
very difficult to imagine. He, however, struck his pencil through them, and | (
refused to have the Church of England Cemetery desecrated by their presence i \
there. I have before me the memo, of the Attorney-General to the Colonial |>
Secretary, in which he says—“ I desire at once to express my opinion that the j)
course pursued by the trustee in question (Mr. Pearce) is utterly unwarrant- j (
able.” I have also before me the letter from the Minister for Lands to Mr. j (
Pearce, in which the same language is used in censuring Mr. Pearce’s con- j)
duct. These were the grounds on which I publicly condemned Mr. Pearce’s con- i)
duct, and I leave it to the public to say whether or not they are “ insufficient.” •(
Mr. Pearce, in his letter to you, reveals something new, to the effect that i(
besides the lines already mentioned, Mrs. Davenport wished to have “ some- ;)
thing resembling a box or cabin ” placed upon the tombstone. Well, now, in j)
the name of all that is rational, what earthly harm could come if Mrs. Daven- | (
port had been allowed to carry out this simple and most innocent notion ? Is ! (
it not amusing to see Mr. Pearce snuffing up heterodoxy in every tainted |)
breeze, and discovering it at last in this poor box of Mrs. Davenport ? Mr. I)
Pearce wanted to know what the box meant. Well, if it did not itself disclose j(
its meaning further than that it was merely a box, what is the meaning of all ! (
this perturbation on the part of Mr. Pearce ? I see, when I occasionally visit j)
the fields of the dead, at Rookwood, all manner of things on tombstones—sex- i 5
tants, compass, triangles, and even urns, which is the nearest approach to a j \
box that I have observed. They are all, I suppose, more or less emblematical | (j
of something, and seem to me very innocent and inoffensive, if not beautiful, j (j
and, in some degree, poetic. But the mere box of Mrs. Davenport would ap- i j |
pear to be a sort of simplifying of those things, and bringing them more j) i
within the bounds of commonplace. What, therefore, can be Mr. Pearce’s ] (
objection to this innocent device is entirely beyond my comprehension, and |\
probably will remain a mystery even when the cemetery and all its monu- I j |
ments have crumbled into atoms invisible. David Buchanan. j) j
Sydney, September 19. j j j
[We have received also from Mrs. N. E. Davenport a letter, in which that j j j
lady takes exception to the statements made by Mr. Pearce, and expresses j) j
opinions similar to those entertained by Mr. Buchanan.—Ed. S. M. //.] I I
I am glad that a member of Parliament, as well as the widow, have j (1
taken up the question on the other side. What has the Church of is
England out there come to, if it has come to this ? What a falling is in
this from early Christian charity ! Why, a Christian monument has, I i I
believe, invariably, this very prayer for the dead, or a similar inscrip- i
tion, on all the tombstones of the early Christians found in the Cata- I j
combs of Rome. I have seen the Latin for this very prayer— !<
“ Jtequiescat in 'pace,'' or its initials, “R. I. P.”—on a vast number of is
tombstones, if not on every ancient Christian monument I looked at in i
Rome. U
This prayer for the dead marked the Christian tomb from the Pagan i s
in all that early season of the Christian Church when it was under j
persecution. Happily affairs are not quite so bad here. This very j (i
identical narrow action was attempted at Ryde in 1871, but the late I?
Bishop Wilberforce soon put a stop to that, and insisted that the i
prayer:— j j
“Eternal rest give unto him, 0 Lord, !s I
And may perpetual light shine upon him! ” I j j
should not be erased.
I have only lately received a memorial card of a deceased clergyman, I j
containing the same prayer, so I hope we are looking up.
I have published proof that “good’’ Bishop Heber showed that |j
modern Protestants were about the only people in the world who did I)
not pray for the dead. As I have before remarked, prayers for the | (
dead, as well as the doctrine of purgatory, or future cleansing, imply ! j
future progress, otherwise they would be chaff, M. A. (Cantab.) j
A lady on the Continent, a Spiritualist, who paints Alpine flowers j | ]
from nature, writes to us that she is under the necessity of wishing to find j) j
a market for her artistic work in England. Can any of our readers j j
help her? HI
Dr. Slade is now in Berlin, in which intellectual centre he has so t j
many applicants for sittings, that on some days he cannot receive all (
those who come. He has not had such success anywhere else on the |) j
Continent. j (j
Mr. Epes Sargent, of Boston, U.S. informs us, that some interest j j
is felt in England about the slate-writing phenomena through Mr. iji
Watkins’ mediumship, described in this journal, since he has had jj[
several letters from England on the subject. j) j
On Sunday morning next, Mr. W. J. Colville will deliver an inspira- i | j
tional discourse at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent- In
street, London, on ,c Methods of Promoting a Practical Knowledge of j j
Spiritualism.” A poem will follow the discourse. Spiritualists are 1)1
desired by Mr. Colville to favour this service with their presence, and ! j
to bring their friends with them. The service will commence at 11.15 ](|
a.m. precisely, and occupy about an hour and a half. On Monday j)l
evening he lectures at the Langham Hall, Portland-street. Admis- III
sioafree.    HI
THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
FORTHCOMING MEETINGS.
On Monday evening next the second of the winter series of fort¬
nightly discussion meetings of the Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism will be held at the Association Rooms, 53, Sigdon-
road, Dalston-lane, London, E., when Herr Christian Reimers will
open a discussion on “ Points Connected with Production of Casts of
Hands and Feet.” Chair to be taken at eight o’clock; admission
free.
Dr. Carpenter’s recent lectures and writings will be discussed at one
of the fortnightly Monday evening meetings of the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism, in December next, and the hon. secre¬
tary will be glad to hear from those who may be disposed to take
part in the debate.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council of the Dalston Association met on Thursday evening,
last week, under the vice-presidency of Mrs. W. E. Corner; Mrs.
Wood, Messrs. J. Tozeland, J. Rouse, and T. Blyton, were also
present.
The minutes of last session were read and confirmed. Letters of
general interest, received since, were read from Mr. James Burns,
Mr. J. Regan, Miss Mancell, and Anna Blackwell.
After the unanimous passing of a resolution relating to some utter¬
ances of Dr. Monck,
Letters were read from Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., resigning office
as president. The resignation was accepted with regret. It was re¬
solved to invite Captain John James to accept the presidency of the
Association.
On the motion of Mr. T. Blyton, seconded by Mr. J. Tozeland, it
was resolved that seats upon the Council be offered to Messrs. Edwin
Dottridge, Richard Pearce, and R. A. March. Applications for elec¬
tion as ordinary members were submitted, and accepted, from Mr. and
Mrs. J. Regan, Mrs. Harcourt, and Mrs. Macauley. Letters of re¬
signation of membership were accepted with regret from Miss Thomson
and Mr. W. H. P. Makeham.
Presentations, received since last session of Council, were laid upon
the table, and accepted with a cordial vote of thanks to the respective
donors, viz., Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. Edwin Dottridge, Miss Anna
Blackwell, and Mr. J. J. Morse.
Mr. Edwin Dottridge wrote drawing attention to the earlier custom
of Scripture reading, and suggesting prayer at the ordinary weekly
Thursday evening seances. On the motion of Mr. Thos. Blyton,
seconded by Mrs. W. E. Corner, it was resolved to amend Seance Regu¬
lation No. 2, by addition of the words, “In such manner as the circle
president may deem fit and proper.”
Communications having been read from Dr. C. Carter Blake, in reply
to an invitation, consenting to read a paper entitled “ Passage of Matter
through Matter ” ; and from Miss F. J. Theobald, with reference to Dr.
Carpenter’s misrepresentations, the hon. secretary was instructed to
include Dr. C. Carter Blake’s paper, and Miss Theobald’s suggestion, in
the arrangements for the fortnightly Monday evening discussion meet¬
ings during December.
Arrangements for the last Thursday evening seance in December were
referred to the hon. secretary.
On the motion of Mr. Thos. Blyton, seconded by Mr. J. Tozeland, a
committee was appointed u To consider and report upon a scheme for
obtaining evidence affecting advanced phases of the phenomena of
Spiritualism.”
A suggestion for a New Year’s entertainment, early in January next,
proposed to be arranged under the auspices of the various metropolitan
Spiritualist and Psychological societies, was referred to the hon.
secretary, with instructions to correspond with the several societies and
to report further at next session of the Council.
The Council then adjourned.
Birth.—Blyton.—On the 8th November, at 53, Sigdon-road, Dal¬
ston-lane, London, E., the wife of Mr. Thomas Blyton, of a daughter.
Mr. Colville’s usual inspirational address, at 38, Great Russell-
street, London, will not be given next Saturday afternoon.
Mr. Harrison’s paper on “ The Mesmerising of Animals,” will, after
its completion, be issued as a small book, because the facts are a death¬
blow to nearly all the theories in Dr. Carpenter’s last book, about the
influence of the imagination, expectant attention, and dominant ideas
of mesmeric sensitives. Can any of our readers send in reports of
recent experiments at once ?
On Sunday next Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a trance address in the
Mill-lane Schools, Stockton-on-Tees; subject—“Spiritualism: its
Religion.” The service begins at 6.30 p.m. On Monday, at 8 p.m.,
Mr. Morse will deliver another trance address in the same place;
subject—“ The Spirit Land : its Nature.” On Tuesday evening, in the
same rooms, he will, in the trance, answer questions upon Spiritualism.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
G. Vaughan, Williamsport, Indiana.—Toucan get it of Messrs. Colby and Rich.
We believe that the impediments to the obtaining of English Spiritualistic
books in America are nearly removed.
R.—Yes, we think greater freedom for women the most urgently necessary
social reform of to-day. In the less well-to-do classes they are cut off from
nearly all means of earning a livelihood, because men are doing much work
they could perform. Among the higher classes they have no freedom, and
are commonly driven to the matrimonial market by the other members of
the family, for the highest price they will fetch.
Nov. 16, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.G.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
" who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. ed.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. Cd.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging 'the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.Q-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s. <
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism, Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums/.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo., 16s. ,
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium Dght. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and iSoience; the Spirit' and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and .the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no douht as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, It will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Yala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, lOs. ed.; cheap edition,
7s. 3d. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6<L
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 0d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will
2sl od.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. Cd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6<L
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .7
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IY. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . ,36
Harbinger of Health. . . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . ..76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . . .80
1' Morning Lectures . . . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiuitualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds . ..... 5
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .16
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China rto India (400 A.n. and 618 A.n.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by; the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voiqefromthe Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S'anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams. Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Ansesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .12
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . ' . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . ■ . IS
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale , ^ . . . IQ
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recenthj produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Otheb
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of th«
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be ■
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un •
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—NcttfA Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible com¬
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other miners.]
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, George-gtreet,
Sloane-square, S.W.
IV
THE SPIBITUALIST.
Ndv. 16, 1877.
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE¬
MATURE' DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
LORD BEAOONSPIELD. justly stated the other
day that “the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
END’S. FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation,-Vomiting, Thirst, &C., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
E:
-(■NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as ENO’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.’’—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
E
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes
“ Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact weD. known.”
I^NO’S FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes : —
■A « Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
END’S FRUIT SALT,
ASA
GENEEAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS.OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
in which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
END’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
ORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease: 
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I bought it. I had suffered more
or less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed, Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please.—I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 80, 1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. —• Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PHARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX,
E
animal magnetism,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author-by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—^Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Cbjects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre-
/ dieted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions m
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IXAction of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Cdylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, VVitchcratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly (Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—^Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Cdylic Emanations—Cdyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student^-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic; Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price Sixpence.
The untrust worthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
cfc., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
A LADY ARTIST, Spiritualist, and pupil of
Signor Belucci, Florence, and other schools, will, from
the 15th October, receive sitters for portraits in her studio,
19, Holland-street, Kensington. Moderate prices to mediums
and Spiritualists.
WL. CANEY, photographer. Studio
• opposite the Unity Church, 151, Upper-street,
Islington, London, N.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is ready to undertake translation
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese,
and Italian. Authors’ manuscripts prepared and sent through
press. Highest literary and scientific references. Address C.
Carter Blake, 32, Great Ormond-street, W.O.
Just Published, -> • - •
Price Severn Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo. richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The. gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
L The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10, The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—Vr. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. 1 Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wdbblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enj oy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years....
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads“ No one can help laughing
at them.”
From The Court fournal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From Public Opinion.
“A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild -chants that used to he sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
UAn odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nitture.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.©. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in had taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book.. .‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to he expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself... . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Photographic News.
Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses aU while offending
none.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty .; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The. get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time,” \_N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is "bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, ot
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AJID
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn.
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
