[Begistbeed as a Newspaper.
0^ f^YdSOlKO^ldS^
01kst Itospp: wpLertib^ MtJ Spiritualism m feat Iritaiu.
No. 363. (VOL. XV.—No. 6.) LONDON : FRIDAY, AUGUST 8, 1879. Published Weekly 5 Price Twopence.
SANITAS, the Health giver;
Of, the Pine Forest at Rome.
SANITAS IS SOLD IN FLUID, POWDER AND SOAPS.
SANITAS FLUID, Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d. in Bottles. By the Gallon at 20s., and 5s. It is the best fluid disinfectant, preventative of
contagion, and preservative of Meat, Fish, &c. Applied to the Bath, it improves the health by purifying the tissues and pores of the
skin, giving natural beauty and colour to the complexion.
SANITAS TOILET POWDER in Is. Boxes is far superior to any of the so-called Violet Powders ; it is perfectly free from all
mineral and poisonous ingredients; improves the complexion, and softens the skin.
SANITAS TOILET SOAP is a beautiful transparent soap, containing a large percentage of Sanitas. It effectually softens and
improves the skin, and gives natural health and colour to the complexion.
SANITAS HOUSEHOLD SOAPS, sold in 6d. and 4d. Bars, is excellently suited for cleaning and disinfection, whitens and
purifies linen goods.
TOILET SANITAS FLUID, in Is., and 2s. 6d. Bottles, is a beautifully perfumed Fluid, having all the properties of the ordinary
Sanitas in a more agreeable and fragrant form. Specially adapted as a mouth wash, and for spraying rooms, use in finger glasses, &c.
SANITAS DISINFECTING POWDER.
SANITAS TOOTH POWDER, and the several productions of the Company, to be had at the
Sanitas Company's -A-gfenoy,
4, MILDMAY GROVE, HIGHBURY, LONDON, N,
CAUTION,—All Articles hear the Company's Trade Mark and Seal, without which none are genuine.
Chemists and the Trade Supplied.
Now Ready,
The THIRD EDITION of Vok I. qf MR, SERJEANT COX'S
IECHAIISI OF MAI,
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body-—Mind—Soul. Vol. II., completing the Woifk, and treating of “ The Mechanism in Action,*
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LI&HTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Rook to Spiritualists^
JAMES IALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majestys Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qnality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 8, 1879.
11
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, ChandoS Street,' Caveiidish. ScJUare, \ Loiidon, TV:
PRESIDENT—CoV
Tliis Society was establislied in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the inyestigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
moye and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications &£ to alleged phenopiena
are' invited by. the Committee of Inquiry who hold Inyestigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to • •
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Hommry''Siiiretary, Wiilesden, N.W/*
ALLAN KARDEO. (Blackweli’s Translations). ■
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HE A YEN AND HELL (1863). . From tbo. Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d.f x r TSYSner And Cq., London.
Just Published.
S P I R I T - I D E N T I T Y.
By “ M.Aj (Oxon.).’’
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, British Museum-street, London, \Y.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : its Place and Function
—Religion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism—The Philosophy of Inspiration and
Revelation—Christianity : its Place and Human Elements.
London: TruBner and Co., 67 and 69, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
DR. NICHOLS’ FOOD OF HEALTH.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &o.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per . pound packet.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &c.
Just Published. ; s
THE FIBST VOLUME OE
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HAERISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of Well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full. of. evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics^ and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally, some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. Gd.,
post free, (noth edition 6s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum»street, London, W.C.
MR. C, E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12. till i5. On Thursday and
Saturday'evenings from 8. o’clock lor reception of
friends.
N.B.—Mr. Williams’s temporary address during
alterations In the above premises is 13, Milman-street,
.W.G, (corner of new. Ormond-streetV. '■ r •< > l
"Mr;; *william FiET'Gi&R,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
- LONDON
(At home every day except Sunday),
Will lecture at ..Steinway Hall, .Lower Seymour-
street, every Sunday night.
• -MR, Fi GUERIN,
» Having iknade many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, r.RhieumAtistd, and other .painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
t, Northumberland street, strand,
 - LONDON. 
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
164, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Ohnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes,all pangs,
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces; thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient.. Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions,
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
j li Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
i ' MRS. LOUIE -M. LOWE,
23, UPPER BAKER. STREET, LONDON.
At home from two till five o’clock daily, except Sundays
MRS. A. KIMBALL,
SOMNAMBULIC MESMERIST AND MEDIUM,
Receives daily from 11 to 5 (except Sunday), at 26,
Montague-street, Russell-square, London. 
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. HonorA Paris.
MRS. 'WOODFORDE, r Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
\_J ^DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Hank Paper Magnetised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, EarTs-court, S.W.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIR VO Y ANTE and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair ; sex and
age required. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism,
Specialities. At home from 12 till 6 p.m. Patients
treated at their homes when desired. 99, Park-street,
Grosvenor-square, London, W.
Folkestone.—comfortable Lodg¬
ings on moderate terms. References to Spirit¬
ualists can be given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-
.terra.ce, Foik6Btqnew^ ^ ^ 
HackneY spiritual y^dence
SOCIETY, 6, Field-view-terTace, London-flelds,
E., near .Blachstone-road Members’ stance, Mondays,
8 p.m. Private materialisation s)Zancet Tuesdays, 8 p.m.
.Miss Barnes, mesmeric sensitive, Who obtains good
rappings, also, as conditions favour, lights, voices,
writing, and other psychical phenomena, gives experi¬
mental s&mces every Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,
and Saturday, 8.15 .p.m.',1 Sixpence. - Private stance
any time, prior arrangement; 5s. Mesmerism taught
personally or by letter, 5s. Sundays, 6.30 p.m., Mes¬
meric Healing; 7, Devotional Meeting; 8, Stance.—Six¬
pence inclusive. 0. R. WILLIAMS, Sec.
eJw
#9
$. th# Xk| to SDtoD^
No. 363,—Vox.ujvie Fifteen;.
a&d 3StbiD$ af Spit[itxtaii$tw,
Number Six,
LOMDOlsr, FRIDAY, AFGrUST 8th, 1879.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST f Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
“0 GRAVE, WHERE IS THY VICTORY?”
BY W. H. HABElSON.
Published Weekly. Pbics Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
Within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
33, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia, Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakpf, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.E.G.S.
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. O. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Eobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Bev. O. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencben, Esq., M.B.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu-
: tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
0. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.B.S.
Miss Florence MSuryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
' (Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr.. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Eisq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.B.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 83, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Boyal,Paris; 2,Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne; British Beading Booms, 267, Eiviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Eue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
ErzherZog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne; Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of TAght Office, 9, Montgomery-placC, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
THE SOUL OE THINGS, by William Denton. In this
extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
‘of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no- doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.O.
I
To those who have given observational attention to
Spiritualism, no question exists as to the reality
of the phenomena, as to the production of physical
effects at a distance from the body of the medium and
governed by intelligence, or as to long-forgotten events
in the memory of a sitter being re-revealed to him with
names of persons and accurate particulars, through the
lips of exceptionally good trance mediums. This esta¬
blished position- is of transcendent interest in itself, both
in psychology and physiology, but does not amount
to proving life beyond the grave; consequently those
experienced and critical Spiritualists who have the best
practical acquaintance with the whole range of the
ordinarily presented facts, have been much exercised at
heart for the past few years about the question of spirit-
identity.
The evidence in favour of spirit-identity is strengthened
by such cases as are given in “ M. A., Oxon’s ” book
on the subject. This book is well known by Spiritualists
to come from a responsible source, and is attested to
the general public, in the dedication, by the names, as
witnesses, of Dr. and Mrs. Stanhope Templeman Speer.
In the valuable practical cases recorded near the end of
that book, there is abundant evidence of an unseen
power categorically revealing personal matters previously
unknown to the medium or anybody else present in the
circle. The only question left open to some extent is
the power that unseen intelligence may have of reading
books and manuscripts, also of copying handwriting,
although the general moral bearing of the communications
is against the speculation that the spiritual operator
is capable of any such action with intention to
deceive.
Another strong point in favour of spirit-identity in
certain cases is, that when returning spirits profess by
name to speak to their earthly friends through a medium,
the sensitive usually feels the former death-pains of the
spirit. We first witnessed this years ago through the
mediumship of Mrs. Olive, and did not know whether
some fanciful speculation of the medium was not taking
form in her unconscious trance speeches. Next, the
same fact came out in utterances through the lips of
Mr. Morse, in those early days when he was. able to give
-evidence of spirit-identity, and when the public demands
and necessities of the movement unfortunately gave no
opportunity for the exceptional cultivation of that phase
of his powers. Then we saw that the same general law
manifested itself in other English mediums, and occasional
chance remarks in the American records revealed that it
was in operation beyond the seas. Only last week Mrs.
Louie Lowe, without any previous leading in that direc¬
tion, volunteered in these pages statements about the
sufferings she had endured on the other side of the
Atlantic, from the death-pains of returning human spirits,
who told her that a great spiritual law forced them to
take up earthly existence through a medium, at the point
they had once been obliged to lay it down so far as their
Aua 8, L879
&
^he Spiritualist.
former bodies were concerned. This branch of evidence j {
in the direction of proving spirit-identity is valuable, j)
because no such idea was in the world until the spirits j )
revealed it; indeed, so unexpected was it, and opposed to | \
all possible preconceived ideas, that mediums and sitters j)
alike were taken by surprise by the facts of the case, and I \
slow to admit their verity. j)
Lastly, the crowning evidence of spirit-identity is j<
found, as I have endeavoured to show in my recent book, n
in death-bed and post-mortem apparitions. These are j)
of two classes, namely, materialised apparitions visible fj
to everybody present, and apparitions visible only to $
clairvoyants and mesmeric sensitives. The materialised j (
apparition is visible to three or four persons in one place, j)
at the time that the body of the dying person is visible j)
to three or four persons round the bed, and the dying j i
individual, after a slight sleep or trance, tells his friends j)
that he has seen his distant loved-ones. With such j(
corroborative testimony from a number of witnesses at j j
once, at both ends of the line, what better evidence of i (
identity is needed? After the death of the body, n
spontaneous apparitions are seen just the same, but j)
corroborative evidence is unobtainable at both ends of \(
the line, the tenement of clay being silent in death. As I)
I have pointed out elsewhere, these apparitions are j<
experimentally producible under human control.
Here then are three strong lines of evidence tending |)
to prove the reality of a life beyond the grave, and if j (
any one of them be considered not strong enough, the j)
three added together give a position which seems to be j <
impregnable, and capable of withstanding any amount n
of conscientious criticism. j(
THE REMOVAL OF AN EVIL INFLUENCE.
BY A. E. NEWTON. |)
One of the best, purest, and most conscientious j (
mediums the writer ever knew—one whose whole soul j
seemed illuminated with heavenly wisdom and celestial /
truth, which was freely imparted to those about her \
without money and without price, and who, though j
acting only in private, has been instrumental in quicken- (
ing into higher life hundreds of souls, among whom are >
some of the most influential teachers of Spiritualism on )
two Continents—was on one occasion seized by an influ- j \
ence which caused her most excruciating physical torture. I)
The access of this influence was, doubtless, facilitated by K
the fact that the medium had been compelled by temporary j j
circumstances to subsist for some days on food that was j \
to her unsuitable and unwholesome, by which the tone of I j
physical vitality had become lowered, rendering her j)
specially negative to surrounding influences, while at the ! (
same time she was brought in frequent contact with a | j
person in the body possessed of a powerful will, who j)
was evidently actuated by secret malevolent feelings, and | {
who thus threw around her a malignant aura.
At first the suffering was thought to be merely the j\
effect of some peculiar bodily disease, and was treated j)
accordingly; but it soon became evident to both the i <
sufferer and her friends that she was partially in the n
clutches of an evil-disposed intelligence, who was seeking j)
gradually to obtain control of her brain, and appeared \{
endeavouring to wrench soul and body asunder by inflict- |)
ing the intensest pain in the great nerve-centres. This I (
was continued at intervals during several successive days, f j
the subject growing constantly weaker and less able to !|
resist.
At length the medium’s husband, perceiving what |)
seemed unmistakable evidence of the presence and con- \ <
trol of a foreign intelligence, and thinking that even the | >
most evil-disposed being could be best reached and !
influenced for good by kind words and friendly expostula¬
tion, addressed the spirit in a kindly way, and asked what
his object was in thus afflicting the medium. The
medium’s face at once was made to assume an intensely
malignant expression, utterly foreign to herself, while her
tongue was forced to ejaculate, in the most fiendish tones
imaginable, “ JVe are going to kill her ! God damn her I”*
The husband further expostulated, “ Why? what harm
has she done you, or any one, that you should wish to
do this ?” But no further reply could be elicited.
It was now evident to her friends, however sceptical
they may have been previously'on the subject, that here
was a case calling for most energetic efforts at exorcism,
if such a thing were possible. Uniting in earnest (un¬
spoken) prayer for the aid of superior beings, together
with the laying on of hands by spiritual persons (whose
refined auras are believed to be as intolerable to depraved
beings as is fire to mortal flesh), the friends speedily had
the satisfaction of seeing the sufferer delivered from this
malevolent power, and once more under the influence of
her own celestial guardians.
The latter, as soon as able, proceeded to explain in the
most serious and earnest manner, emphasized by the
terrible scenes that had been passed through, that there
are in the spirit-world (of course on the lower planes of
development) numbers of spirits who are violently
hostile to the spread on earth of the light and the
higher wisdom which a heavenly Spiritualism brings,
and these are ever on the alert, not only to bring
Spiritualism into disrepute by any and all means in their
power, but even to take the lives of its most efficient
advocates when opportunity presents. And this for the
reason that a knowledge of the truth and its practice by
mankind lessens their own power for evil or for selfish
gratification at the expense of ignorant and depraved
humanity. From this was deduced the important lesson
that sensitive persons interested in these higher truths
should be at all times on their guard and be guarded by
their friends, against deleterious influences, whether in
their diet or their personal associations—any and every¬
thing which tends to lower the tone of either bodily or
spiritual vigour, and thus to open the way for the
approach of adverse powers.
The medium was promptly removed to more suitable
surroundings, and, by advice of her guardians, attendants
of a select and spiritual character were for a time pro¬
vided to aid in warding off malevolent influences until
her own strength should become recuperated. One of
these attendants, who was clairvoyant—-a lady of the
highest character—testified to seeing, while watching at
the bedside, a group of dark, malignant spirits hovering
near and doing their utmost to regain possession of
the victim who had been rescued from their power, and
exhibiting the most intense anger and rage as they
were compelled to retire before the bright, celestial host
who had taken her in charge.
This is but one of several incidents pointing in the
same direction that have come under the writer’s per¬
sonal knowledge, and he has reason to believe that
similar and even more striking proofs of evil disposition
on the part of spirits have been not uncommon to most
investigators of large experience. Doubtless the ma¬
terialistic “ common sense ” of our time would refer all
such cases to physical disease, to deception or hallucina¬
tion, as it does all evidences of spirit-intervention.
But, conceding the reality of spirit-presence in this
case, as the writer is compelled to do, it seems
utterly repugnant to enlightened reason to suppose that
* In The Banner of Lh/M this expression -was hypocritically
put in initial letters and dashes, so that everybody, not an idiot,
knew what the writer intended.—[Ed. or $.]
Aua "8, 1879.
this spiteful demon, avowedly bent on torture and
death to one of the most lovable beings that ever trod the
earth, was really a “well-meaning spirit” misunderstood;
or to “surmise” that the medium’s usual spirit-attendants,
who were accustomed to teach the most exalted virtues
and to give rational explanations of things dark and per¬
plexing, should on this occasion have attested to an
infernal falsehood as to the character and purposes of
their own associates, to the utter misleading of earnest
seekers for truth. And all this merely to give a ready
answer “ to account for all that is not according to our
preconceived notions of how well-meaning spirits should
deport themselves!” This is to represent the wisest
spirits as utterly destitute of truth and honour.—Banner
of Light.
POWERFUL SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS
IN INDIA.
The following narrative, dated June 23rd, 1879,
written in the Indian hill district, comes from a
thoroughly trustworthy source, hut the writer, like many
other Spiritualists in private life, does not wish any
name or address to be published. The appended
narrative consists of the closing part of a letter written
to a friend in England :—
My young brother goes to school. We always ride
here. There is only one carriage (and that belongs to
 ) in the whole place. Then I go out calling from
twelve to two, always on horseback, with a nigger groom
following on foot. Lunch at two (we always have some
one to lunch), and then about five we go out riding
again till eight. We have a jolly house, and altogether
twenty-five servants, who cost my governor 200 rupees a
month, which is just £20. We have about nine horses.
The ladies go about either on horseback or in janpans,
which are like comfortable armchairs, carried by from
six to eight niggers.
Now listen. You must know, to begin with, that my
young brother, who is just twelve, is about the most
powerful medium, I suppose, that could be found any¬
where. I will explain. About a year ago my mother
noticed that things followed my brother (such as a
cushion, and every imaginable thing), but nothing, as in
your case, was broken. Well, then, my brother tried
table turning; it answered wonderfully. Then he, one
day, took a pencil and paper and wrote and asked
questions; it (the spirit) answered them. It rarely
writes two hands alike, and so fast that a child of his
age could not do it on his own account. It recorded
instances of my grandmother’s death; how my mother
attended her j the medicines she gave her (she died, you
know, before I was born). My brother was entirely
ignorant of it. We always make him write with his
eyes shut. He (my brother) has seen my grandmother’^
spirit and described it accurately to my mother. The
spirit sends, him notes which he finds on his table,
and sent my mother a piece of her mother’s hair done up
in a note; in fact, in a word, it does exactly what my
brother wishes or asks. I also am a medium, but not so
powerful as my brother. If I go into a cupboard I can
get raps, and they increase in boldness as I ask for them.
Now I will tell you what happened to my brother,
solemnly, as a fact. He and I had a stance the other
day together—we went up into my room. He sat down,
ftnd the spirit he invoked was a playful one. I got into
the cupboard, and, on his asking, it hurled my hat-box,
brushes, and match-box, and various other things at the
cupboard. It then told us to go into another room and
blindfold ourselves, Wo did; things were thrown at
63
| j | us. It then put oatmeal down our necks, on our faces ;
| (I and when we returned to my room, the table we use for
|(j writing to the spirits on was covered with it too.
|) | My brother stood in the room. A hat was put on his
m head (by the spirit); he took it off, and it was filled with
I > j all sorts of rubbish. Three times was this done with
i (| different hats. I have seen him raised up in the air, and
1 > | carried the whole length of the room and put on a sofa.
|(! Sometimes, taking off his coat, all sorts of things
|) | tumble out. It dresses him up in the most fantastic
|) | garbs, in a second, in my presence. If he comes out for
if! a walk he finds stones in his hat and up his sleeve. My
I brother, through its agency, has done a thing never done
|) I before—written the contents of an unopened letter. I
| know how firmly you believe, or I should,not have told
I i y°u-
|I| I will now tell you something more remarkable. I
j I have seen it (I swear on my honour), when he has got
i (\ into a cupboard and shut the doors, take off his boots,
m and then they have come out through the roof of the
| \! cupboard.
m I have seen my hat-box go through a shut window,
j) i and remain on the verandah without breaking it.
We have asked about your affair, and it (the spirit)
j)[ says you are a medium. Now follow carefully my
Ki advice. Sit down by yourself, unless you can get
| j another medium and believer at a table; ask it to move.
D If it does, three raps mean “Yes,” one means “No.”
K; Ask it to spell out something by the alphabet. Begin
m at A, and go through the whole alphabet. When it
I! raps stop, and begin again, and it will spell out words.
| Practice this by yourself, and don’t be discouraged, but
I go on for weeks, and, if you are a medium, your power
must come. That is what I do, and it has promised that
in a month it will write for me. We have pages on pages
of foolscap it has written for my brother. You are at
liberty to send this to The Spiritualist newspaper, if you
like.
When I sit at a table sometimes bread comes rolling
| down my back on to my plate. Oh, I forgot to mention
| my brother sees fairies. They get all his books together
off* his table, place them in an exact square on the floor,
| and dance round them. My brother often has nosegays
brought him by spirits, and it (the spirit) actually took
j a small card from my brother’s desk, who is in England,
I and brought it to my mother here, and told her she was
only to keep it twenty minutes and send it back. It
will only do things in the presence of my father, mother,
| and myself. With any one else in the room nothing
| happens. Now, be sure and follow my instructions, and
| you will learn much, or I am mistaken. Lord  
| firmly believes in it, and he has seen things follow my
| brother. You know I am not given to exaggeration,
i and all this I swear solemnly is true. There is one
i remarkable thing about it. It throws something at my
i brother and me (a lemon, for instance), it hits us both
| exactly in the same place, at the same instant. It drew
i my brother a picture the other day of heaven and hell.
| It made six degrees of heaven, and one of hell.
It sometimes writes backwards fast ; sideways it
| prints and illuminates its letters, a thing my brother
| never could do. And what is more, he sometimes
places a pencil and paper under the table and goes
away. We come back and find something written on it.
| Be sure and bear this in mind, the more you practise the
j more power you get. My power has increased wonder*
| fully in the seven days I have been here. I practise
every day.—Your affectionate friend,  .
P.S.—Be sure, in writing to the paper, no names are
| mentioned, as my mother does not wish it. No one
I knows of it but ourselves.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
64
THE SPIRITUALIST
Aug. 8, 1879.
THE RELIGION OF SPIRITUALISM.
BY ISABEL BE STEIGER.
I wish to say a few words in reference to the letter of
my friend, Dr. George Wyld, published July 18th. I
have just returned after a few weeks’ absence abroad,
otherwise I would have replied sooner.
I think, however, that Dr. Wyld, if he has done me
the honour of reading my concluding paper, will see that
I had no intention of undervaluing the truth or Divine
inspiration of the source of Christianity, but that my
remarks were confined to the misunderstandings of the
real meaning of most of Christ’s teaching, owing to the
perverted theologies which have been dominant in
Christendom for the last few centuries. Owing to this
view I use the expression “materialising theology” as
applicable to the Christianity of the present day. I think,
also, that Dr. Wyld will see that I never for a moment
could have been so stupid—I can use no other expression
•—as to have excluded the noble names he quotes, as well
as all others of the hierarchy of intellect, in my animad¬
versions respecting the results of Christianity. Such
people must always stand alone as influencing and not
being influenced by the religions surrounding them.
All such men and women, in whatever epoch they
live, can never “ vanish before ” any fresh light on the
mysteries of life. They will absorb it, and probably
radiate it again in their own spheres of existence.
May I say a few words to try, if possible, to excuse
“ the sobs of weeping women ? ” Such stances as those
graphically described by Dr. Wyld are no doubt lament¬
able parodies, and should be regarded by all true
Spiritualists with profound regret. Nevertheless, “ a
straw shows how the wind blows,” and we shall best’
serve the cause of promoting the higher development of
Spiritualism by endeavouring to draw people’s minds
upwards from the lower views and generally selfish
curiosity which tempts them to indulge in such stances.
Beginners in Spiritualism go through a great deal
which afterwards (when they understand better the truths
they are seeking for) they consider decidedly repre¬
hensible.
I confess I have never had the pain of witnessing any
women in such a distressing position as quoted by Dr.
Wyld ; if I had I should, I think, have been very sorry
for them (for they certainly could not have done it as a
pleasurable occupation), and I should have concluded that
they were in an early stage of spiritual education, or that
they were of a mental capacity that unfitted them for
walking alone unguided in any field of new thought.
I must also in all justice say that no doubt there must
be some inspirational speaking such as Dr. Wyld describes,
since he says so, but I have never heard it; on the
contrary, I have been a hearer of much, and very much
that I think would have served, as matter for volumes of
sermons, and the teachings of which, if assimilated into
our hearts and lives, would make us very different men
and women to what we are.
We can only honestly and fairly criticise what we hear
or read for ourselves, and I consider myself to have been
fortunate to have been a listener in all the audiences of
which I formed a unit.
I wish to say a word or two briefly respecting the per¬
fectly true observations made by Dr. Carter Blake in his
letters. No doubt his scholarly mind is offended at
apparently random terms. I trust, however, he will
see also that I had some method in my madness; and
using my terms only in the widest senses, I think he
can see that they convey their meaning as well as any
terms used in a short paper on such a long subject. I
must, in self-defence, say that I may. be pardoned for
]|| inaccuracies of expression, as my work lies with my
j j brush and not with my pen. We all of us, however,
j(j no doubt, from time to time, feel inclined to lay down
j(j our daily work for the mental gain obtainable through the
[>! study of Spiritualism, and we each seek our various
|)| modes of expressing our interest, even the poor “ sobbing
|)| women,” who I would fain see smile again and abstain
| from seances. Dr. Blake is right in saying that Spiritualists
it! are not agreed on the subjects referred to under the
ni heading A, B, and C.
j)j: Nevertheless, this is neither to be wondered at,
h| nor is it to our discredit. Neither Christianity nor
;}| Rome were built in a day. Neither moral nor phy-
j)i sical changes occur suddenly. Spiritual religion is
(only dawning, and any heedless haste to erect doc-
| trines or dogmas could only have disastrous results.
H We are feeling our way to higher understanding, and
\[ we are not iconoclasts or revolutionists; but when we
see on all sides the light of spiritual religion slowly
ji illuminating the dark theologies of the present day,
j; then we shall know the advent of the new day is at
j; hand. Then will it be time enough, and then will
|: there be minds able to undertake the task of con-
jt;! solidating our ideas into a more philosophical or doc-
n f trinal form. We need not now dispute about terms,
S) j for we none of us as yet have authority to decide upon
1) | them. Neither were the early Christians agreed on
® their forms and terms. All was chaos, as far as doc-
! (|; trine went, until the apostles and fathers rose up to
|) | crystallise the words of Christ into immovable dogmas.
| < i Should we not profit by the subsequent experience, and
jyj; not be in haste to proclaim to the world any formula
Iff of ideas, which further light may later on make us see
lylj fit to alter? As I take it, Spiritualism is an inner
!) j: light coming, or that should come, to men’s and women’s
|| souls, and they do not, therefore, feel the absolute
m necessity of either doctrine or dogma, the true essence
m of either being elasticity. However, as order is
Ki Heaven’s first law, no doubt the time will come when
]}] Spiritualists, who love order and decorum as dearly as
|)| other people, will perceive the necessity of distinctly
!|j obeying this law, in the letter as well as the spirit.
j)j They are striving for it now indirectly, I assume, but at
I)! present all the interests, ideas, and forces are scattered,
I) | and not until every mind is complete in itself will cen-
Kl tralisation or organisation, as far as religion goes, be
| [ possible.
I f Naturally the material and unemotional side of Spirit-
j)| ualism will be more easily understood than the higher and
|) I spiritual side. There is a dual nature in everything. Christ
||| had a body and He had a spirit, therefore we have more
IP reason to expect that the material side will be the one that
iff will most easily “secure recognition on the part of out-
j j siders,” simply because men and women have, as a rule,
f|| a larger number among them whose material nature is
|) | more largely developed than their spiritual one. Like seeks
|j like. Why should we mind so much about “ outsiders ?”
| We have our work to do, and we should be right glad
Kj for their sakes when “ outsiders” seek us, for they have
m need of us, but we ought not to have need of them,
j I observe that there is a phase in every Spiritualist’s
m experience when he distresses himself about “ outsiders ”
if and their views on the matter. Their views being crude,
j)! crudity itself often can in noway affect us. We have
| i simply got far ahead on the same road, where they are
m halting outside the starting point, and talking nonsense of
| the (unknown to them) path in front, and boldly enun-
|) I ciating their views from absolutely theoretical standpoints.
|)| We should gladly assist “ outsiders ” by telling them of
j) | our experiences, but we are unworthy of travelling onwards
Ul ourselves, if we are perpetually being pulled back by any
65
Aug. 8, 1879. THE SPIRIT CJALIST.
“ outsiders,” and doubting truths we have felt ourselves, . K
because all are not yet well started. ^ |)
We have, alas, so much to do to mind our own feet in j(
walking along this road, that we should once and for ever
leave off the unimproving system of shifting our views
for the sake of the recognition or appreciation of any
u outsider.”
Might I venture, however, to suggest, as Dr. Carter
Blake is rightly very exact about definitions, that he should
tell me whom and what he means by “ outsiders ?” But
I forbear, for after all discussions about terms, when
primal matters are not agreed upon, would be useless and
unimproving. To my mind there can be but one meaning,
and according to my light we are all of us “ outsiders ” to
somebody else. Those who do not hold my views on art’, or
philosophy, or religion, look upon me as an outsider, I
ditto upon them. Who is really to decide as to who the
unfortunate goats literally are ? I should, with Dr.
Blake’s permission, be more inclined to use the term
“ inquirers ” when we are speaking of those whose
recognition of us is required by us. As long as people
are perfectly satisfied to remain out of the pale of our
inquiries they are outsiders to us—-we outsiders to
them ; but if they put a foot into our territories, they
are no longer “ outsiders ”• but inquirers. Therefore,
I presume it is these persons to whom Dr. Blake
alludes; and, therefore, I cordially agree with him in
desiring that their views on Spiritualism should speedily
grow wider, but as to non-inquirers, I think we
need not attend to them : it is not our business to
interfere with other persons’ creeds. “ Let each
be persuaded in his own self.” Neither should we feel'
benefited if non-inquirers were anxious to take us in hand.
They are probably, as Mr. Stainton-Moses admirably
expressed it in his paper, not fitted by nature for these
inquiries, and do their own work in life more satis¬
factorily by keeping to their own particular groove as
long as they are content in it, and feel honestly that their
highest aspirations are attained therein.
I feel grateful to Dr. Hitchman for sheltering my
remarks on these subjects under the valuable shield of
his experience and knowledge; and that he agrees with
me in not writing disparagingly of trance speaking.
If “ namby-pamby” orations are uttered we need not go
to listen, fortunately; but, alas! how many of us have
been forced to listen for “the sake of religion” to very
“ namby-pamby” matter from the pulpit!
Let us hope and believe that the first wide and general
effects of Spiritualism will proceed-from the doctrines
enunciated from the pulpit, being at last irradiated and
placed in their true light through the help of Spiritualism.
THE PASSAGE OF MATTEE THEOUGH MATTEE.
The Hon. J. B. Young, of Marion, Iowa, states in the
Beligid-Philos&phical Journal of Chicago, July 12th, 1879 :
I called on Mrs. Simpson at her residence, No. 24,
Ogden Avenue, Chicago, between nine and ten o’clock in
the forenoon, July 8rd, in company with my youngest
son, a lad aged ten years. No persons were present other
than the medium, my son, and myself. We sat by the
open window at a plain pine table or stand. After a few
minutes’ conversation, Mrs. Simpson took a goblet partly
filled with water, and placing it on the palm of her right
hand, introduced it underneath the stand and its cover,
to exclude the light. In a moment she withdrew them,
and we found in the goblet a beautiful moss rose with
stem and leaves. It was presented by the controlling
influence to my son. I thereupon requested the spirit to
bring a flower to me, and he immediately indicated a
readiness to do so. The circumstances connected with
the second effort are so remarkable that I desire to call
especial attention to them. Mrs. Simpson placed the
goblet upon a slate, and then, taking hold of the latter
with her left hand, she requested me to place my hand
upon the slate and upon her hand at the same time. I
did so, taking her left hand and the side of the slate in
my right hand. I then took her right hand in my left,
and at arm’s length from the stand, and observing that
there was nothing under it, and nothing in the goblet but
a little water, we introduced the slate and goblet under¬
neath the stand, holding the goblet firmly to the top of
the same, and then placed the cover around it, keeping
our hands all the while in plain view. Within five
seconds a slight tremor passed over the medium, and we
withdrew the slate. The goblet contained a double
hollyhock, a species of the flower, which, as I am
informed, was first imported into this country from China
about four years ago. It filled the goblet, and was
arranged with exquisite skill. Every leaf was in its
place,'and not the faintest trace of pressure or bruise
could be seen. All who are acquainted with this flower
know that it is one of exceedingly delicate texture, and
cannot be handled without marring some of the leaves,
unless the greatest care be taken. Other beautiful
flowers were then produced, sent by the controlling
influence to the several members of my family,
I watched closely every movement of the medium, and
can truly say that I know positively, and with as much
certainty as anything can be known in this world, that
the flowers were produced by some power invisible to the
human eye.
When the hollyhock was produced under the rigid test
conditions above-mentioned, the countenance of the
medium was radiant with joy, and in a moment a look of
inexpressible sadness passed over her face. I inquired
the cause, and she replied, “ As knowledge increases
troubles multiply; the more wisdom we have the keener
our sufferings. I know that the Infinite Spirit and the
blessed angels are using me as an instrument for the
demonstration of continuous life and immortality, and
am conscious of my own truthfulness and honesty ; and
when I realise how cold and indifferent people are to the
angels’ mission of truth and love, how unkindly, how
cruelly bigots speak of me and of my work, I cannot feel
otherwise than sad.”
I endeavoured to cheer her by speaking of “ the good
time coming,” when the world will joyfully welcome its
mediums and prophets. I hesitate not to affirm that
Mrs. Simpson can do more to establish the fact of immor¬
tality, and of communion between the two worlds, than
all the philosophers and theologians combined, who do
not possess mediumistic gifts of an equally demonstrative
character.
I write not in the interest of any sect or denomination,
or of any particular class of believers ; nor do I write as
a propagandist of Spiritualism, but to add my testimony
to a wonderful fact for the purpose of promoting a
recognition of it by the public mind. If through the
mediumship of certain persons an invisible power pro¬
duces the most beautiful flowers in a moment of time, the
people generally wish to know that fact. It is a phe¬
nomenon worthy of thorough investigation and of
careful consideration, and if the evidence in support of
its occurrence is sufficient and conclusive, the fact should
receive universal acknowledgment. If any man in
Chicago, having knowledge of this medium’s reputed
gifts, fails to obtain the most satisfactory and conclusive
evidence that spirit power outside of the medium, and
wholly invisible to the human eye, produces the flower
manifestations which occur in her presence, it will be his
H awn fault,
66
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 8, 1879.
DK. MONCK. j
Dk. Monok, still in a state of ill-health, is the guest of I /
friends in Switzerland. Signor G-. Damiani, writing from K
Naples , to the Annali Dello Sjnritismo (Turin) for June, j)
says that the Rev. Dr. Monck, who came to him in a j l
deplorable state of health, had left for Rome with his hi
powers much improved. Though Signor Damiani was ju
very particular not to call upon his invalid guest for any )\j
exhibition of his marvellous powers, the latter were 1)1
occasionally spontaneously displayed. “A few days |(|
before his departure,” says the distinguished Neapolitan, hi
whom the Anndli calls “ the enlightened Spiritualist and j/j
philanthropist, Professor G-iovani Damiani,” “we were K
with a friend conversing on matters foreign to Spiritualism, j)
when suddenly, as if from the ceiling of the chamber, we |(|
saw fall upon the table around which we were seated a m
casket, which opened of itself, containing a handsome |)|
gold bracelet. The doctor, taking it up, said—‘ This was K j
stolen from my wife about twelve years ago.’ After j)|
returning home and while dining, the following was j(j
spelled out to us by the tipping of the table: ‘Monck, m
you suspected that one of your servants stole this during j/j
your wife’s last illness, but they were all innocent. The jsj
bracelet and other objects which then disappeared were |)|
taken by , who will be considerably astonished not j(j
to find them in their lurking-hole.’ An object stolen ||j
twelve years ago, brought as if by a miracle from England ) j
to Italy! Is it not a phenomenon that should cause men \ j
of science to reflect ?” >|
 +.    s!
A CURIOUS APPARITION. | |
Mr. Thomas Lake sends us the following interesting j)
letter about the appearance of the spirit of his departed j \
wife to his daughter. Mrs. Lake passed to the higher (
life June 17th last, and the apparition was seen last j/j
Friday. Kj
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
36, Blenheim-grove, Rye-lane, Peckham, August 8rd. j \ s
Sir,—As an old reader of your paper, I beg to submit |/
the following facts, thinking they may interest all who j(j
study the great science of the proof palpable of immor- j; j
tality. On Friday morning last, August 1st, my daughter j (i
Ada was sitting on the outside of her bed at half-past j > j
seven, when she became conscious of a presence betwixt j/j
herself and the wall. Looking round she saw the full | \ j
form of her mother reposing beside her. She was, she i / j
says, [frightened for a moment only, and then she m
remembered her mother had promised to come, if 1)1
possible. She asked her mother if she were happy, j(j
to which she replied in a whisper “ Yes.” Her mother j(
then said “ I can’t stay, I must go now, but I will come , J/j
and see you again.” The child said (she is only j(j
thirteen), “ I shall soon come to you,” upon which her j>j
mother said “ I shall be glad.” Her form was then seen (j
to slide, as it were, through the wall. My daughter |S
noticed that her head was shrouded very gracefully in a j/j
gauzy white fabric j a sort of transparent veil covered j\j
her face, and through the veil her full bright eyes were j) j
markedly visible. Each cheek was flushed with pink, j (j
the lips were likewise pink; the greater portion of her m
forehead was hidden by the folds of her head-dress; her j(!
arms were also completely enveloped by the ethereal m
drapery. My daughter noticed that her mother looked j/j
down towards her hands as if wiping something, exactly i\i
as she used to wipe her spectacles. My daughter noticed j / j
the motion under the light drapery, and, singular to say, i / j
she appeared to wear the very stockings she had on jU
when her body was interred. If any of your readers j / j
should visit Forest Hill Cemetery, the grave is No. 6,342, :' •
no great distance from the entrance, on the left; and
should any person feel any desire to question either my
child or myself about this occurrence, we shall be
happy to answer any inquiries. I will guarantee the
trustworthiness of my daughter; she is a child utterly
incapable of falsehood. Thomas Lake.
MADAME ENAULT’S MESMERIC POWERS.
A Warrington newspaper gives the following
additional particulars about Madame Enault, otherwise
known as “ The Moorish Princess : ”—
Of all the sights I have ever witnessed, the per¬
formances of Madame Enault, on the Fair Ground,
during the past week, have been the most remarkable.
This lady, who has not been in England more than two
or three weeks, and who arrived in Warrington on
Saturday last, is certainly the most skilful dentist I have
ever had the pleasure to see. I should think she has
extracted many hundreds of teeth during the week from
children, young persons, and the oldest of patriarchs.
This is done with an ease, an absence from pain, and
with such skill that the most sceptical have been forced
to acknowledge her ability. Every day the crowds
around her carriage have increased in numbers, and all
classes have been represented, including not a few of
those who practise dentistry and the medical art. I
don’t wish it to be thought that I have any reason for
“ puffing ” this lady, but she has caused such a sensation
in the town that I could not help noticing her in my
“Jottings,” and I don’t mind saying that, in common
with many other tradesmen, I have neglected the egg
and butter business by which I flourish, for the purpose
of witnessing the feats of this female marvel. But,
besides the tooth extracting, which is done in the open
air free of charge, Madame Enault (who speaks by the
aid of an interpreter) has effected some wonderful cures
in deafness, and in cases where jaw bones have been
fractured or diseased, she has remedied the defects in a
few minutes, amid the cheers of a strongly sympathising
crowd. In addition to these cures and the curing of
rheumatics and other ailments, she has taken away
from various people growths of different kinds, car¬
buncles, &c. In fact, it would be impossible for
me to enumerate all she has done, but she has
earned the gratitude of a very large portion of the
inhabitants, and the one medicine which she sells, and
which has been proved of great virtue for cuts and
wounds, has been most eagerly bought up by hundreds of
people.
Six new members of the National Association of Spiritualists
were elected last Tuesday, including Mrs. Fletcher. There were
six resignations of membership, and one of a seat on the Council.
Me. Matthews, the test medium, will visit London a week
or two hence, and no doubt many will avail themselves of the
opportunity to witness his powers, which have given a great
impetus to the progress of Spiritualism in Newcastle.
Me. Watkins, the slate-writing medium, is getting good
manifestations in America, but being a “ slippery ” man varies
his theory of their origin to suit his temporary interests, and the
spirits help him under all his varying circumstances.
Mes. Weldon holds lively and largely-attended musical
gatherings every Wednesday evening at Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, London, commencing at eight o’clock, admis¬
sion free. She begins by giving an exciting account, setting
forth how she, a sane woman, narrowly escaped incarceration in a
madhouse after having been “certificated” to be insane by
doctors who saw her for a short time, after which a musical
entertainment of a very superior character closes the proceedings.
Those who saw most of her, during several weeks before and
after the lunacy doctors paid their short, visits to her, never
dreamt of her being imagined by anybody to be insane.
Aua 8, 1879.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
A MYSTERY IN THE PLAY OF HAMLET !)
EXPLAINED. |
BY THE REV. W. R. TOMLINSON.
Now that Spiritualism is making its decided mark in n
society per se, we have, I think, reason to be grateful to j(
Mr. Irving for his very efficient auxiliary evidence through i (
the production of Shakespeare’s plays on the stage, jj
especially Hamlet, where the representation of a ma- j\
terialised spirit form, as well as the simulation of ||
clairvoyance and clairaudience, now so well understood j)
as facts by Spiritualists, are so strikingly and vividly j(
placed before the public in careful verisimilitude, demon- j)
strating the great dramatist, Shakespeare, to have been | j
vouchsafed the same spiritualistic knowledge as we our- j
selves possess, though he was in such knowledge nearly ;]
three hundred years in advance of us.
Besides materialisation, clairaudience, and clairvoyance, |
there is another spiritualistic point strongly brought out j
in the play of Hamlet—I mean the suffering of spirits for
evil deeds done in the body. But here there has always m
appeared to me an inconsistency in retributive justice as j|
respects the deceased king. In this play he is repre- ijj
sented as having been, when alive, “ So excellent a king,” m
“ A goodly man,” “ Take him for all in all we shall not ju
look upon his like again.” And yet, after death, he is j/
represented as suffering the penalties of a wicked ju
king or a felon ; and is personally overwhelmed jjl
with the revengefulness of a fiend, mingled, it is ju
true, with much that is pitiful and human. I am m
led to think that Shakespeare, when he drew his ju
awful picture of the ghost’s sufferings, with a realism j\j
which will scarcely bear the light of modern knowledge, j)j
was thinking of the old Danish legend from which he drew j (j
his idea of the play of Hamlet, and the character of the j)j
man for whom he replaced “ Hamlet’s ” father, rather j|
than the character he drew of an “ excellent king.” If j(
he had held to his original text the suffering of the j/
ghost would have been consistent enough, for the play j<
of Hamlet was taken from the old Danish history of two j \ j
brothers who inhabited a small island. They were both in
pirates, and the brothers used to take it by turn to com- j(]
mand their common ship, one of them remaining to guard j/j
the household and homestead. It was during the absence of j (j
the elder brother at sea that the younger took the oppor- jji
tunity of corrupting his brother’s wife ; and her son was j j j
introduced, in the original tale, as chiding his mother in a j| j
barn, when seeing something moving behind a heap of m
straw, and thinking that it was his uncle in the act of jjj
listening, he seized a pitchfork and unfortunately killed a j/j
third person. Now, as the object of art is to elevate its |(j
subject—not, however, morally, by necessity—kings and m
a queen and a prince, a palace and arras, take the place j)!
of more ordinary persons and objects in Shakespeare’s jj
play. / . #
Shakespeare seems to have forgotten, while writing j(j
Hamlet, that in rightly awarding a pirate weeping and j
gnashing of teeth in the next world, he was, at the same j j
time, disparaging the future of an excellent king “ by jj
awarding the same to him.” And although, for the mise jj
en sdne, it answered very well, yet if one of whom it j j
was said, “ we shall not look upon his like jj
again,” had nothing better to expect, after death, j(
than the misery that Hamlet’s father was subject to, and Ij
entered also, after death, into a state of mind so full of jj
revenge as Hamlet’s father’s ghost did in the play, there j
would be but small encouragement for a king or any j
other man to do his duty in that state of life into which it j j
has pleased God to call him. I look upon this medial I
anomaly in the play of Hamlet, notwithstanding all its i'
j wondrous beauties, as a solecism that such a sound
j man as Bacon never could have perpetrated, though I
need hardly say that I can mean no disrespect to the
j medium who could produce such a whole as the play of
j Hamlet, of which I equally believe the great Bacon
j never could have been capable, any more than he could
j be subject to the charge, as Shakspeare was, and which
j is, indeed, demonstrated by his writings, of being “ igno-
j rant of the ancients.”
MR. THOMAS CARLYLE ON FUTURE PUNISHMENT.
A correspondent sends us (Scotsman) the following
letter, written by Mr. Carlyle more than thirty years
ago:—
The Grange, Alresford, 27th September, 1848.
My Dear Madam,—The question that perplexes
you is one that no man can answer; you may console
yourself by reflecting that it is by its nature insoluble to
human creatures—that perhaps what human creatures
mainly have to do with such a question is to get it well
put to rest, suppressed if not answered, that so their
life and its duties may be attended to without impedi¬
ment from it. Such questions in this our early existence
are many.
“ There are two things,” says the German philoso¬
pher, “that strike me dumb; the starry firmament
(palpably infinite) and the sense of right and wrong in
man.” Whoever follows out that “ dumb ” will say little
upon the origin of our conceptions of heaven and hell—*
of an Infinitude of merited Happiness and Infinitude of
merited Woe—and have much to reflect upon under an
aspect considerably changed.
Consequences good and evil, blessed and accursed, it
is very clear, do follow from all our actions here below,
and prolong and propagate and spread themselves into
the Infinite, or beyond our calculation or conception;
but whether the notion of reward and penalty be not,
in the whole, rather a human one transferred to that
immense divine fact, has been doubtful to many. Add
this consideration, which the best philosophy teaches
us, “that the very consequences,) (not to speak of the
penalties at all) of evil actions die away and become
abolished, long before eternity ends ; that it is only the
consequences of good actions that are eternal—for these
are in harmony with the laws of this universe, and add
themselves to it, and co-operate with it for ever, while
all that is in disharmony with it must necessarily be
without continuance and soon fall dead—as perhaps you
have heard in the sound of a Scottish Psalm amid the
mountains; the true notes alone support one another,
all following the one true rule; the false notes, each
following its different false rule, quickly destroy one
another, and the Psalm, which was discordant enough
near at hand, is a perfect melody when heard from
afar.
On the whole, I must account it but a morbid weak
imagination that shudders over this wondrous divine
universe as a place of despair to any creature, and,
contrariwise, a most degraded human sense, sunk down
to the region of the brutal (however common it be) that
in any case remains blind to the infinite difference there
ever is between right and wrong for a human creature
—or God’s law and the Devil’s law.—Yours very truly,
T. Carlyle.
Mr. C. E. Williams, the medium, will leave London for
Paris, about the 15 th of this month, and after spending a few
days in that city, will go to Germany on a visit to Mr. Gustave
de Yeh. He will spend a short time in Switzerland before
returning to England.
68
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 8, 1879.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SUFFERING. j
The following remarks on the philosophy of suffering ! i
are extracted from a thoughtful book by Mr. W. W. j]
Clark, of Dorking, entitled A Forecast of the Religion of |\
the Future (Triibner):— |(
We are apt to overlook the compensatory nature of j)
the laws that prevail in connection with evil and suffering, j <
The undeveloped man has pleasures unappreciated by |)
the man of refinement. The hardships he is thought to k
en dure are more apparent than real, and his wants are com- j \
paratively few. The anxieties attending material prosperity, j /
the nervous susceptibilities of the cultured intellect, and i (
the acute sensitiveness to pain of the.refined organism, are |)
absent to a great extent in the ignorant and undeve- ||
loped. The so-called evil man, whilst lacking the fj
power of appreciating and enjoying the higher pleasures !|
attendant upon a perception and appreciation of the j \
higher good, is nevertheless compensated to a degree |)
seldom duly estimated, in the enjoyment he derives !|
from the gratification of the appetites of his lower nature, i)
On the other hand, it must be allowed that the finest, j)
the noblest, and the holiest men this world has produced | (
have been moulded and purified in the furnaces of j)
affliction and suffering.
How could man know aught of sympathy and love n
were it not for sorrow and suffering which draw them i)
out ? How could man appreciate the beautiful as i \
beauty if there were nothing in the shape of contrast to jf
guide him to recognise it? It appears impossible that j(
self-educated free intelligences could ever have attained j)
to a knowledge of virtue, pleasure, peace, knowledge, and ; (
truth, without coming into contact with their opposites, j j
vice, pain, strife, ignorance, and error. The one is
learned by and through contact with the other. Thus i (
the so-called evils of life may truly be looked upon as j)
lower goods. Again, the good of one generation has jf
been the evil of the next. The good of the ancient i\
Hebrews was to destroy their enemies. The good of j)
Jesus was to love them. By far the larger portion of |(
the human race are still under the influence of the j>
evil (lower good), and desire to destroy their enemies, jc
The time will probably come when the religion of Jesus n
and other noble refomers will be understood, and the j)
higher good they advocated be actively displayed by the is
enlightened governments of a civilised world. - j)
The principle of selfishness, inherent in sentient life, j(
is an absolute necessity to its progress, and affords an i >
apt illustration of the truth of the proposition that all i (
so-called evil may be regarded as undeveloped good. I s
Selfishness, born of sensation, generates desire, desire j>
provokes action, action stimulates thought, and the K
exercise of thought (observation and reflectipn) develops i (
intelligence. Indigenous to the soil of intelligence are \)
those spiritual faculties or perceptions which correspond j y
to the moral sense, in the exercise of which man inspires |)
eternal principles from the all-pervading Spirit of Deity. \\
The evolution and cultivation of these spiritual faculties U
appear to be at once the object and business of life, if
Man thus learns by and through the selfishness of his i $
animal nature to perceive, by comparison, the higher If
good of disinterested unselfishness or love in its highest j)
(spiritual) sense. i>
Man is, therefore, born in ignorance, and developed : (
gradually from- the lower good to the higher, that he H
may learn for himself, through the experiences of life, j)
which are alternately painful and pleasurable, of his own ! (
free will to choose the higher and forsake the lower i)
good. The evils and sufferings of life from this point I (
of view may be truly and intelligently regarded as |>
beneficent necessities, through and by which man is :'j
enabled to perceive God-—first, in His works ; then, in
the operation of His laws, evidences of His will; and,
finally, rise to the power of appreciating and enjoying
the endless manifestations of the Divine love and per¬
fections. If we can thus trace, with our present limited
capacities and knowledge, evidences of wisdom and
goodness in the so-called evils and sufferings of humanity
constituting a* beneficent necessity in the development
and education of free intelligences, we may reasonably
infer that the sufferings of the animal kingdom are
neither vindictive nor purposeless. We are here more
in the dark, from the fact of our being unable to enter
into the experiences of the animal creation, or to gauge
their sensitiveness to pleasure or pain. With animals,
as with man, the individual amount of suffering can only
be fairly reckoned in the account; and, again, the term
of suffering must certainly not be regarded without
reference to the pleasure of existence. In the case of
slaughtered animals, or those who are the victims of
beasts of prey, they probably have none of those suffer¬
ings by suspense and anticipation which must be far
greater than the sudden, unexpected, and perhaps
unconscious separation of life from the organism. In
addition to this, from the lack of sensitiveness in the
organisms themselves, the sufferings of animals may
possibly be reduced to the minimum. The laws relating
to the correlation of mind and matter (if God be
impartial) are compensatory. The capacity for enjoy¬
ment is coextensive with the sensitiveness to pain;
hence, the more refined and complex the organism the
greater the capacity for pleasure, the more sensitive is
it to pain. On the other hand, the lower and simpler
the organic combination the less acutely it experiences
either pleasure or pain. Our ignorance as to the
experiences and destiny of the lower kingdoms makes it
more difficult for us to trace a cause for their undoubted
sufferings; but that there is no suffering without a
reason, a purpose and a compensation is shown to us
by those beneficent results of suffering we are enabled
to trace in the kingdom to which we belong.
To sum up our thoughts. It appears that all creation
derives from the Divine Spirit, who upholds and governs
it, that which it is adapted to receive and appropriate in
order to fulfil its destiny. Man, an intelligent indi¬
viduality, derives from the Divine Energy which fills
the universe that Life which the condition of his animal
organisation enables him to receive and appropriate;
and, from the Divine Intelligence, that Light which from
his condition physically, mentally, and morally he is
capable of receiving and appropriating. Physical con¬
ditions are dependent upon the bodily organism which,
though capable of considerable modification and im¬
provement by the action of man’s free will, nevertheless,
to an extent, retains its inherent individuality. This
involves an endless variety of receptive capacities, a wise
and beneficent arrangement, contributing greatly to
human happiness. The condition of mental receptivity
depends upon the degree of intellectual development
and mental culture, the extent of a man’s knowledge,
and the perfect freedom he enjoys to observe, reflect,
and investigate. The condition of man’s moral recep¬
tivity is dependent upon the action of his Will. , When
a man is honestly living out his conscientious convictions
as to what is good and true, that man (with perfect
intellectual freedom) must of necessity be progressing in
the knowledge and love of his Creator; and, where this
is combined with a healthy organism, we are justified in
regarding that man as possessing as much of human
happiness as humanity is capable of enjoying. Thus,
simply stated:—We have what we are capable of
receiving, and are what we make ourselves. The incom-
Aug. 8, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
69
preliensible Intelligence, whom we call God, governs His K|
creation by laws that are infinitely wise. The apparent ij i
contradictions and inexplicable expedients that appear j ua
to be adopted in the evolution of a world and develop- m
ment of individualised intelligences are the conditions j)]
by which the immutable laws of God are transforming a j y|
nebula of chaotic atoms into a world of beauty, i >
grandeur, and intelligence, in whose womb are generated, j /
and on whose bosom are developed, educated, and ||
purified, immortal spirit entities, who, in the furnaces of j)
affliction and suffering, and in the warfare against the 4)
propensities and passions of their lower nature, are made I j
thereby meet to glorify their Creator in an active \l
obedience to His will, in which is involved their own |)
everlasting happiness. K
If this is clear to us, it follows that the sufferings of |)
the animal kingdom are also the results of wise and bene- |)
ficent laws, employing apparently cruel agents in the K
accomplishment of the most benevolent ends. |)
THE NEW PHASE OF PSYCHOGRAPHY.
A fbiend in Boston writes to us as follows:—
“I have seen the new medium, Mr. W. H. Powell,and |)
regard the phenomena in his case as better calculated to j (
confound a sceptic than any manifestations I have ever U
witnessed. This is what he did: Passing into a state j)
of trance, in which he appears to be controlled by K
Tecumseh, an Indian, he took, one after another, my 1)
index fingers, then those of two ladies of my party, and K
covered a slate on both sides with fair legible writing. j>
Then one of the ladies bound his hand around with her 0
handkerchief, and the writing came out clear and legible \{
through the linen. j)
“ But the phenomenon which places Mr. Powell among j(
our most powerful, first-class mediums, is this: He ij
allowed me to hand him (while under a different control) |)
a slate which had been thoroughly cleaned on both sides. K
He held it by one side of the frame and I held it by the |
other. We stood up in the light of a chandelier with it
three gas burners at their full height. He simply made 11
flourishes as if drawing with his forefinger several inches
over the upper surface of the slate, then told me to reverse j)
it. I did so, and there, on the under surface, was a j)
drawing of a flower, cleverly executed, and beneath it |\
was written in bold characters the one word Wynonie.
The flower was four inches by six in size, and was exe- B
cuted under conditions the simplest, fairest, and most •(
convincing that could be devised. j;
“ The control (female spirit) through whom Mr. Powell [
produces this transcendent phenomenon, is not always on i'
hand at his sittings. He cannot summon her at will as l)
he can Tecumseh. But as he becomes more developed it j
is hoped that the manifestation will be more fully under j
his command. There were seven witnesses of the j
phenomenon as I have described it, and they will all j
testify to its undoubted genuineness. The conditions
were perfect, and herein lies the great value of Mr.
Powell’s exhibitions of medial power. There is no j
singing of Methodist songs, no music of any kind, and j
no tedious waiting. We are requested to converse j
freely without fear of disturbing him as he passes into his j
trance state. I had thought my room was quite light j
enough for any experiment; but he requested that two I
more burners might be lighted. Let not the Carpenters
and the Hammonds charge us again with getting all our i
phenomena in the dark. Mr. Powell practically refutes i
the declaration. He is not made nervous by the presence
of sceptics; they are just the persons he likes to meet. |>
Some writer for the Press affected to explain thepheno- K
menou by saying he could produce the same result with ^
a little bit of soapstone under his nail. The suggestion
throws no light whatever on the phenomenon as it
actually occurs, especially when your own forefinger is
used in getting the writing.
“ The beauty of this mediumship is the perfection of
the conditions—the broad light in which the pheno¬
mena are produced, their irresistibly convincing cha¬
racter, and the utter absence of all that is questionable or
suspicious in the manifestations. Both the medium and
his wife make excellent impression by their open, sincere
demeanour, and the intelligence with which they discuss
the phenomena. Up to November last Mr. Powell was a
strenuous opponent of Spiritualism, and an utter dis¬
believer in a future state. It is not faith, but knowledge,
which he now claims to possess in regard to the immor¬
tality of the soul. His whole system of thought on the
subject of spiritual realities has been revolutionised.”—
Religio-Thilosoplmal Journal.
SHELLEY’S LIFE AT OXFORD.
These rooms are described as a perfect palace of con¬
fusion—chaos on chaos heaped of, chemical apparatus,
books, electrical machines, unfinished manuscripts, and
furniture worn into holes by acids. It was perilous to
use the poet’s drinking vessels, lest, perchance, a seven¬
shilling piece, half dissolved in aqua regia, should lurk at
the bottom of the bowl. Handsome razors were used to
cut the lids of wooden boxes, and valuable books served
to support lamps or crucibles; for in his vehement pre¬
cipitation Shelley always laid violent hands on what he
found convenient to the purpose of the moment. Here
the friends talked and read until late in the night. Their
chief studies at this time were in Locke and Hume, and
the French essayists. . Shelley’s bias towards meta¬
physical speculation was beginning to assert itself. He
read the School Logic with avidity, and practised himself
without intermission in dialectical discussion. Hogg
observes, what is confirmed by other testimony, that in
reasoning Shelley never lost sight of the essential bear¬
ings of the topic in dispute, never condescended to per¬
sonal or captious arguments, and was Socratically bent
on following the dialogue wherever it might lead, without
regard for consequences. Plato was another of their
favourite authors; but Hogg expressly tells us that they
only approached the divine philosopher through the
medium of translations. It was not until a later period
that Shelley studied his dialogues in the original; but the
substance of them, seen through Madame Dacier’s version,
acted powerfully on the poet’s sympathetic intellect. In
fact, although at this time he had adopted the conclusions
of materialism, he was at heart all through his life an
idealist. Therefore, the mixture of the poet and the sage
in Plato fascinated him. The doctrine of amnanesis, which
offers so strange a vista to speculative reverie, by its sug¬
gestion of an earlier existence in which our knowledge
was acquired, took a strong hold upon his imagination ;
he would stop in the streets to gaze wistfully at babies,
wondering whether their newly-imprisoned souls were
not replete with the wisdom stored up in a previous life.
... As at Eton, so at Oxford, Shelley refused to keep
the beaten track of prescribed studies, or to run in
ordinary grooves of thought. The mere fact that Aristotle
was a duty seems to have disgusted him with the author
of the Organon, from whom, had his works been pro¬
hibited to undergraduates, he would probably have been
eager to learn much. For mathematics and jurisprudence
he evinced a marked distaste. The common business of
the English Parliament had no attraction for him, and he
read few newspapers. While his mind was keenly inte¬
rested in great political questions, he could not endure the
70 THE SPIRITUALIST. Aug. 8, 1879.
trivial treatment of them in the daily Press, and cared far
more for principles than for the incidents of party warfare.
Here, again, he showed that impatience of detail, and that
audacity of self-reliant genius, which were the source of
both his weakness and his strength. He used to speak
with aversion of a Parliamentary career, and told Hogg
that though this had been suggested to him, as befitting
his position, by the Duke of Norfolk, he could never
bring himself to mix' with the rabble of the House. It is
none the less true, however, that he entertained some
vague notion of eventually succeeding to his father’s seat.
—John, Addington iSymonds.
THE LANCET ON THINGS SPIRITUAL.
The following is a part of a leading article on “ The
Spiritual in Man ” from the Lancet of July 12 th :—
There is an affectation of scientific principle in the
determination to admit nothing which cannot be proved,
to reject every form of evidence except the specifically
demonstrative, which gratifies the vanity of the philosopher,
and so cheats his senses that he seems to stand alone on
a firm footing, while all around him glide. What if
fixity, even the sort of permanence which appears to be
an attribute of principle, is incompatible with science ?
Supposing it should hereafter be found—as some think
the past has shown—that truth is progressive, that the
horizon stretches . away as we approach it, that the
“ impossible,” and things that “ cannot exist ” of yester¬
day, become the ascertained facts, the postulates of
to-day ? What if the very method of our inquiry be at
fault, and the powers we bring to bear upon the task of
investigation are only part of the means at our disposal;
if we persist in looking at the objects around us with one
eye, when we have been provided with two 1 Supposing
man is not wholly physical or material, and it is because
he refuses to use the spiritual powers at his disposal he
fails to perceive what lies beyond the reach of his senses.
Men of highly cultivated intellects have, in times past,
believed in the existence of a soul, and there have been
minds, not fatally tainted with disease, which have
cherished faith by the side of reason, without finding
the two forms of energy mutually destructive. Some,
who have done good work in science, have even gone so
far as to deem the proofs of a spiritual element in man’s
nature as many and conclusive as those which attest the
existence of his organism; the belief in a God as per¬
missible as the belief in a protoplast, and the recognition
of a spiritual entity as reasonable as the cognisance of
matter.
If proof were needed that this is the true scientific
position in respect to these subjects, it would be found in
the fact that a strong and real difference of opinion exists
as to their nature and claims on our attention. The strife
between rival creeds and faiths may not convince the
philosopher that any one of the number is the true faith
^to the exclusion of others; but it does show that faith
is a normal form of mental energy. The larger part of
mankind would not exhibit faith, religion would not be
found to become increasingly spiritual with the growth of
intellect in the development of races and peoples, and
man as an animal would not be gifted with faculties, a
mind, and aspirations, connecting his hopes and fears, his
motives and impulses, with another life and another
world, if there Were no other life or state of existence to
call forth these qualities. It is a fundamental law of
Realism and evolutionary Materialism that the develop¬
mental impulse springs from the surroundings. If these
require the development of a particular organ or faculty,
it grows in obedience to the need of circumstances, which
acts as a stimulus, This law applies to the development
>| of faith in man, and to the growth of his spiritual nature,
h not less than to the parts of his organism. If there were
\j no object to inspire and attract faith, that form of mental
/•; energy would not exist. If there were no future, there
<1 would be no hope therein, We will go farther still, and
affirm that the very antagonism of cultivated minds to the
/■; doctrine of spiritual entities and forces is a strong cor-
)j roborative proof of its verity. The mind only attacks with
j vigour what it instinctively feels to be a strong enemj^.
(! When a thinker of known ability persistently and labori-
)| ' ously strives to demolish the belief in a personal God,
)i in his inner consciousness he feels the force of the evi-
\| dence that such a Being exists. It is this stimulus of
)l conviction—a conviction he is ever seeking to efface—
< | that incites him to efforts wholly disproportioned to the
jj needs of an onslaught on a belief known and felt to be
utterly groundless. When a man describes prayer as
(| “imbecility of the will,” he himself prays. When he
m incessantly quotes Scripture to pour ridicule on the faith
p of the majority, this is, in itself, evidence that he has not
\| the power to shake off its influence or to uproot the faith
)j he derides.
| The time has come to speak out boldly on this subject,
)j and we are persuaded the good sense and self-respect of
(j the profession will approve the protest against that spirit
)j of restless antagonism to the claims of religion, which has
) I unhappily obtained fuller expression in a small section of
\ | our ranks during the last few years, and which, if not
ji repudiated, must be expected to increase. The position
1(1 we assume in reference to this matter is one which may
ijj be easily defined. We are not the apologists of any
| / i special creed, but we say faith is a rational and natural
|(! form of mental activity. The religious instinct is an
m essential part of man’s nature. There is a distinctly
i) | spiritual side to his character. The existence of hopes,
| | fears, and aspirations—call them susceptibilities only, if
j) j any one prefers the term—is in itself evid ence that there are
](] spiritual surroundings and subjects of thought which call
||| these forms of energy into existence. It is scientifically
jn possible that not one of the forms of belief extant may be
jjj true to fact, and yet the existence of faith proves con-
j j clusively that there is subject for faith For our-
lyj selves, and the profession as a body, we claim to be
j)j considered as having neither part nor interest in the
( speculations of men who mistake a spirit of sententious
m scepticism for scientific Zealand acumen; and who, by
j/j the restless energy of their enterprise against religion,
Kj and their unwearied anxiety to deprive man of his hope,
j beyond the present, are unwilling witnesses to the truth
j they assail—the unconscious contributors of a living
K testimony to the faith they despise. Such shortsighted
jj labourers in the field of science, blind to all that lies
ju around and outside the circle of a narrow vision, may be
j j i good and true workers within the limits of their enter-
ju prise, but they err egregiously in closing their eyes to
j\i everything beyond.
jj BEVEALING THE PAST.
(| Sir,-—I attended, or, as the French say, “assisted” at a
(j seance at No. 31, New Bond-street, on Friday last, I have
> j always been incredulous as to the genuineness of the so called
)j manifestations, though a native of the United States, where, I
(i believe, they were first brought to public noticfe in a considerable
(j way. Mrs. Parker, the medium, made some remarkable personal
j j revelations on this ’ occasion, and, to my amazement, told me of
)| some of the incidents attending the assassination of President
(j Lincoln, over fourteen years ago, of which I am confident she
<! was previously entirely ignorant.
Aug. 8, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
71
I had the honour of a slight personal acquaintance with the
late lamented President, and was aware of many of the details
connected with his death. His intimate friend, Colonel Ward
H. Lamon, of Washington, was my intimate friend, and from
him I learned many circumstances known to few. Mrs. Parker
displayed power as a medium which I had never before seen, and
which I did not believe possible. There were other manifesta¬
tions and revelations which appeared to be convincing to the
others present, but nothing made so strong an impression on my
mind as the fidelity with which the atrocious crime of Wilkes
Booth was depictea. D. Allen.
8, Sfc. Stephen’s-road, Bayswater, London, Aug. 4.
Sir,—Permit me (a stranger to Spiritualism and anything per¬
taining to it) to give an account of a seance held at Mrs. Parker’s,
31, Tsew Bond-street, last Friday. She first called me by my
Christian name, told me of my dear father, gave his name and
described him; also told me of many things in my life of which
she could know nothing. She then mesmerised me, and whilst
in the sleep, all who were at the seance heard me describe
minutely a shipwreck. I gave the Pacific Ocean as the scene,
told of the desert island where the passengers landed, and when
I woke up, Mrs. Parker told the company how she herself had
been wrecked on that coast, and then acknowledged my descrip¬
tion of a man I saw striking off the hand of another with a
hatchet, who was seizing a boat. Her mesmeric power is very
great; a few passes only were necessary to clear my inner vision.
1 cannot express how grateful I feel to her for thus opening to
me a new life, placing before me the power to acquire the
knowledge of things so long supposed to be beyond the ken of
mortals, such was her mesmeric power. 1 likewise find “ Plan-
chette” gives my friends wonderful tests, and Mrs. Parker replies
to questions (handed to her on slips of paper) which I am posi¬
tive she can know nothing of. This part of her medial power is
wonderful. When she is under control her language is sublime,
instructive, philosophical, raising the desires above earth and
earthly things. Those who were present can testify how her
power made me see the ship striking the rocks, but prevented
me from going on the ship; she obliged me by her will-power to
see the whole disaster from a distance, thus saving me from the
horrors of participating in the scene, and from receiving a conse¬
quent shock to the nervous system. She has evidently studied
deeply the science of mesmerism, has infinite tact in the manage¬
ment of her pupils, is accomplished and educated, so that I think
a public recognition of her powers my duty. H. Stanford.
138, Marylebone-road, August 4,1879.
ASSERTED EVIDENCES OF ASTROLOGY.
Sir,—The following curiously exact fulfilment of an astrolo¬
gical forecast, in my own experience, I submit is worthy of notice.
In April last my nativity, with the " directions ” for several years,
was computed by Zadkiel, and in that month I received his judg¬
ments. One of them bade me beware of “ rheumatism, sciatica,
or feverish cold ” during the ensuing July (last month). I had
never suffered from either rheumatism or sciatica in my life. A
fortnight ago, when on circuit at Exeter, I got up one morning
with what I supposed to be a stiff neck. In a few hours it
developed into unmistakably rheumatic pains in the joints of the
neck and one shoulder, and this, my first experience of rheu¬
matism, has lasted without intermission, though with occasional
alleviation, up to the present time. Concurrently, I have suffered
reverses and disappointments also appropriate to the same
“direction.” C. C. Massey.
Temple, Aug. 2nd.  
Sir,—In The Spiritualist of the 14th March last, you repTint | (j
from the Pall Mall Gazette a curious and interesting notice of ill
.the old French astrologer Nostradamus. Many of his prophetic j)j
uatrains are quoted, several of which are considered to have a k
meet application to events in our own times. The article con- i(j
eludes with observing that Nostradamus plainly predicts that .nl
England will about the present time “ be the scene of a great i; j
social revolution, and that the Prince of Wales, much regretted i (i
by his mother, will fall fighting against the socialists and a l(j
foreign foe.” The prophecy runs thus:— uA|
Le prince Anglais, Mars a son cosur de ciel, | )!
Voudra poursuivre la fortune prospere;
Des duex duelles, Tun percera le nel, j )-
Hay de lui, bien aym4 de sa mere.
But is not this prediction much more strikingly applicable to K
and fulfilled by the fate of the unfortunate Prince Louis Napo- i ) I
(j leon? Of course, it will be objected that & prince anglais is
\ I. specified, but oracles have always been privileged to palter with
(i us in a double sense, and to use words in a way apart from their
)! obvious meaning, and which only becomes clear after fulfilment,
(| often avowedly with the intent of diverting attention from the
\ j quarter actually meant. Could the old wizard be questioned he
j might perhaps say that the hapless prince’s English residence,
) i training, and environments, the way in which he lost his life in
I! the service of England, and the marked manner with which
I England has taken him to herself sufficiently entitled him, for
prophetic purposes at least, to be termed “ English ” till events
! should show. Save that word, all else fits. W.
i Sir,—-At fifteen minutes past three on the morning of the
j 16th of March, 1856, in latitude 48° 50' N., the Imperial Prince,
I son of Louis Napoleon, Emperor of the French, was born. He
recently, as everyone knows, met with a violent death in a distant
land.
i At the hour of birth 10 degrees of the sign Capricorn were
I rising, and there is no planet near the ascendant. Persons born
/; . within this sign, according to the rules of astrology, are “ of a
< i dry constitution, slender make, with a long thin face, thin beard,
(| dark hair, long neck, narrow chin and breast, weak knees, and
>; often deformed. Disposition subtle, witty, but changeable; at
/1 times melancholy, capricious as a goat.” As the moon is probably
/ ] hyleg (or Giver of Life) in this figure, she being posited in the
{! seventh house in the sign Cancer, presumably this planet will have
(| considerable effect in giving the physical and mental conformation
) | of the native. The moon in Cancer shows a person “of middle
)j stature, well-made, and fleshy, fair complexion, round face,
(I rather pale, brown hair; of a sociable, pleasing, courteous dispo-
(| sition, kind to all, harmless and respected.” The “ moon has
>! always great influence over the constitution, whether hyleg
)j or not.” The reader is left to form his own conclusions as to
(j which of these two signs most stamped their ideality
fj upon the deceased. There are many interesting points in the
> | figure to which it will not be necessary to allude, but I pass on
) I at once to the particular aspects which declare, in unmistakable
(| terms, what mad folly it was for him to thrust himself into strife.
S! Any astrologer, by a single glance at the figure, could unhesita-
)| tingly have affirmed that disaster would follow his military
) | pursmts. Mars, the great astrological factor in war, is posited in the
(i ninth house (long journeys), and is retrograding into the eighth,
(] or house of death, being written six degrees of entering. The
) J moon is just beyond the cusp of the seventh (in the house of his
) | public enemies), and Mars, from his evil position, is squaring both
) | the moon (hyleg) and the ascendant. Be it remembered that
(j the moon is posited in the house of the native’s foes, and that
) I Mars throws the fatal aspect to both the moon and the ascendant.
)i Turning to the rules of the art we note that “the ascendant to
(| the square of Mars is a very evil direction, giving sickness of the
v i nature of Mars, and the sign he is in. Accidents, cuts, burns,
stabs, hot diseases, and rarely escaping loss of blood.” . . . The
moon to the square of Mars gives “ mischief to body and mind,
accidents, misfortunes, imprisonment, and loss of property. He
has diseases, according to the sign Mars is in. If the moon be
hyleg he is in danger of death by fire, cuts, wounds, bites, kicks,
or gunshot. He is quarrelsome, inclined to bear arms, or
become acquainted with military men, and is addicted to
vices according to the sign Mars is in.” The sun in the second
house is squared from the sixth (sickness) by Saturn, the greater
malefic, and Uranus is on the cusp of the fourth. Noting these
aspects of the planets and referring to the rules, again we find
“when the ascendant is afflicted, and both the evil planets attack
the sun and moon, or only one of them, a remarkable death
generally takes place. An evil planet in the eighth house (or
retrograding into it) is a testimony of a painful death.”
We leave these facts to speak for themselves, with the simple
observation that the Prince Imperial was never destined to thrive
in arms. His first “ baptism of fire ” in Europe was a disastrous
one, and that in Africa was fatally so; but the end of all his
military exploits was clearly written in his own horoscope, and
his decease adds further accumulative testimony to the truth of
astrology. Aldebaran.
Mrs. Louie Lowe contemplates leaving London for Paris in
about ten days time, and after a short visit to France, she will
settle down permanently in London, She has been holding many
seances here of late.
72
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aua 8, 1879.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
% the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh | (
University. K
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll. ; c
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size, j ^
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with i (
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process ! j
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon- i \
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness | \
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in i)
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture— i \
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti- j(
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards I (
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy— Community of Sensations, of Emotions— j}
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage— j \
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical ; \
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of j (
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes— i)
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and j S
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, ftc., Predicted—Pre- i)
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling's Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instmct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, *c., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
■— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis's Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep-
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary,
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, British Mtineum-'Street, London.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has al^p out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yaxley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether,
•Aug. 8, 1879.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Will Lecture every
Tuesday Evening of August,
UNDEK SPEBIT INFLUENCE,
AT
Tavistock House, Tavistock Square.
Admission Free. Collection taken. To begin at
Eight o’clock precisely.  ,
British national associa
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 88, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m. 
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman Road, BhixtON.
The object of the Society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well-known mediums, and are entitled to the use of
books on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, <fec., &c.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
Mrs. WELDON’S WEDNESDAY
RECITALS. Mrs. Weldon gives an Evening’s
entertainment weekly, at Tavistock House, her re*
sidence (formerly Charles Dickens’). The programme
is varied by a short Lecture, sacred and romantic;
serious and nursery songs by Gounod, Urich, and Mrs.
Weldon. Tickets to be had on application free. A
collection is made for Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage,
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London. 
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White's contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanify. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Bin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition, enlarged.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE
COMPARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from
Spiritualism with the idea that it is unchristian and
unscriptural. It shows (we think successfully) that
every form of mediumship, now so familiar to Spirit¬
ualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of identical
experiences. Also
HEAVEN OPENED.
Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The two bound in one, Is.
These books, consisting of messages given by
writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth,
and their group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and
sorrowing parents.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street. London, W O, 
rilHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
JL' oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Motltgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, busihess manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, Ac., &e. Terms of subscription, in advance,
liis. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 83, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“ RIFTS IN' THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of,articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of *• M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection,with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ 01 Beautiful White Mother Death." Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tiance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home, Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VIL—An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. ———.
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the tranee-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Ad am ant a.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelina
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C.
Stone.
. XXI.—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVI f.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon."
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon."
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfalien).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Oalder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child's Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
The trapped medium;
OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.B.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Prcoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d.;
post free, 6£d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museuaa-street, London, W.O.
ill
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr.
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances?—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S.
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
’—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F‘. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV,—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—■
Sin Punishes -Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVIL—The Message of Spiritualist—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a.Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss —Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. Cd.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS EEDM THE INNER LIEE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poeiiis were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision*3
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—ViI.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation**XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “ Birdie’s Spirit Song ’’—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live ”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie,
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 8, 1879,
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE. IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
' Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The MorninO
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton a nd the Author.
Contents.
Part 1,—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3; The Song of the. Pawnbroker.
—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—1G. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbelrbewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!"—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes.”
—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. — 29. The July Bug.— 30. The Converted
Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; consequently
any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a, genuine
vein of humour, deserves the praise of a ll who are not too
stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on
the contrary, some of his poems touch on the deepest
and most sacred feelings of our common humanity.
; . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his ad¬
ventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is
quite one of the funniest things that has been pub¬
lished for years. . . . The book contains quite
enough to ensure it a welcome from which its tasteful
appearance will not detract.” The Morning Post says
of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in
“ something like the same key as The Bon Gaultier
Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably suc¬
cessful result.”
From The Court Journal.
"All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published, and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street). Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. These poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, are of fare literary
excellence.
TheSpiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The probable effects of
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second
Gold Medals op the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street,London, w.C.
T
HE ALPHA; or, the First Principle
of the Human Mind; a Revelation, but no
Mystery.' With Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait
of the Author, E. N. Dennys. 370 pages, price 8s. 6d.
“We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellows.”
—A thenieum.
“ It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and
logic than any work we have ever read ; it Is a new
revelation, and one of the most remarkable productions
ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also, just published, with engraving of the Author,
470 pages, price 3s. 6d. ’ %
rpHE RELIGION OF LIFE, as exemp-
JL lifled by Jesus Christ. A series of Lectures by
theAuthor of “ Alpha.”
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.C.
LE JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,’»
published every week under the editorship of
Mods. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
A LADY SPIRITUALIST AND
MEDIUM is forming a circle for inquirers,
every Monday and Thursday evening,at eight o’clock.
She wishes to engage a genuine materialisation
medium for once a week.—Kindly communicate to
A., 2, Scarsdale-villas, Kensington.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Cossonerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St, James’-street; and Mr. Bough ton, St.
George’s-road.
IVTOTICE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
JJN New bond street, London, w. mrs.
PARKER has arranged for seances on Tuesday and
Friday afternoons, at four o’clock precisely. At home
for private sittings and mesmeric treatment; de¬
velopment for clairvoyance and other forms of
mediumship, from one to five o'clock daily; and eight
to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
'IVfEDlUMSHlP : ITS NATURE AND
JLtJL VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W#0. Price Id.; Post free
for Ijd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
Now ready, 48 pp. Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS FOR AUGUST, 1879.
The Spiritual Pilgrim. Part II; by “ M. A." (Oxon)—
Some Thoughts concerning the Mystical Death; by A.
M. Howitt Watts—Sermons by a Seer ; by J. W. F.—
Materialism in Religious Circles; by J. T. Markley—
A Pioneer of Modem Spiritualism—The Popular Faith
and the Claims' of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Reve¬
lation ; by John S. Farmer—The Religion - of the
Future—Notes and Gleanings: Brief Mentions; Dr.
Talmage on the Future Life; A Sign of the Times;
Honour when Honour is Due; A Curious Legend;
Healing Mediumship ; Dr. Colenso ; The Rev. Joseph
Cook on the Spiritual Body; Spiritualism in Austra'ia*;
The Hopeless Sadness of Materialism — Spiritual
Lyrics: The Dual Mystery; by T, S,
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Gt. Harmonia
The Physician. Vol. I.
The Teacher. „ II.
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, .
The Thinker. „ V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J, Davis
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . .
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People . . . . .. . . .7
' Children's Progressive Lyceum Manual '. • 2
Death and the After-Life 3
History and Philosophy of Evil . , . . 3
Harbinger of Health 7
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . . 7
Philosophy of Special Providence . > .2
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .3
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .6
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 6
Tale of a Physician; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . 2
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .3
Morning Lectures 7
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCBOFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keying Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFI, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
MIND AND MATTER.—A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penna,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J. M.
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample copies free.
CONTENTS.
O Grave, Where is thy Victory? By W, H,
Harrison        61
The Removal of an Evil Influence. ’ By A; E,
Newton       62
Powerful Spiritual Manifestations in India 63
The Religion of Spiritualism. By Isabel de
Steiger         64
The Passage of Matter Through Matter  65
Dr. Monck        66
A Curious Apparition  ,.,i    66
What is the Explanation ?    66
Madame Enault’s Mesmeric Powers    66
A Mystery in the Play of Hamlet Explained. By
the Rev. W. R. Tomlinson  67
Mr. Thomas Carlyle on Future Punishment   67
The Philosophy of Suffering    68
The New Phase of Psychography   69
Shelley's Life at Oxford      69
The Lancet on Things Spiritual    70
CorrespondenceRevealing the Past—Asserted
Evidences of Astrology  70
Printed for the Proprietor by BEVBRiDflE and Co.
at. the Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-abo>ve-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished >y W. H. Harrison, 33, British Museum-
street London W.C.
