Begistered as a Newspaper,
0^ ?^YdS0I<0(^lCSl<
EIjc #l!>tst Slcfaspapor canmchh toitjr Spiritnalism in <&tmi Driteht,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly'on" Sale at the following places :—LONDON: n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuvedes Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia.
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI : Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 331. (Yol. XIII.—No. 26.) LONDON : FRIDAY, DECEMBER 27, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Management of Spirit Circles ...     301
Whom shall we Worship ?   301
A Private Seance  302
The Bible and Modern Spiritualism. By 0. J. Sneath:—
Dreams, Trances, and “ Speaking with Tongues "—
Spirit Forms and Spirit Hands—The Levitation of the
Human Body 303
Mr. Lambelle at Ladbroke Hall 306
Well-proved Clairvoyance:—Miss Fancher’s Perception of
Colours—Photographs Recognised—A Committee of
Clergymen—The Testimony of Physicians—How Does
She Live ?—Dr. Mitchell’s Tests—Her Present Physical
Condition        308
Slate-Writing Phenomena ...  310
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—Meet¬
ing of the Council 311
A Man Scourged by Spirits... ...    311
Correspondence:—Spiritualism and Spirituality in Glas¬
gow—Spiritualism and Religion   312
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record oj the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
BSTABHSHHD IN 1869.
fTiHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emiie de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness ;.His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the ,
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Snilivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. O. Massey,
Barrlster-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Bavkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India) ;
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ol
the‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. Wilham Oxley; Miss Kisling*
nury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,yM.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Oorso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
■ All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News-
aper Branch Office, 38, Great Rus sell-street London, W.O.
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.'
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS
At the Offices of the Association.—On and after the 30th
December, 1878, the offices at 38, Great Russell-street, will be
open between the hours of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all
week-days, except Saturday, when they will be open between
the hours Of 10 a.m. and 1 p.m.
FORTNIGHTLY MEETING.
The usual Fortnightly Meeting will be omitted on Jan. 6th.
On Monday, Jan. 20th, a paper will be read by Mr. W. H.
Harrison, entitled “ Hauntings.”
On Tuesday, Jan. 4th, the ordinary Council Meeting will be
held at 6.30 p.m., preceded by the sitting of the Finance Com¬
mittee at 6 p.m.
THE EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE
Holds its sittings every Friday, at 6.30 p.m., unless adjourned
by order of the chairman, or by vote of the committee at its
previous meeting. E. Kislingbury, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akebman-road, Brixton.
Thh object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
British museum lectures.—a
Course of Three Lectures (with the permission of the
authorities) will be given by C. Carter Blake, Doct. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy and Zoology, Westminster
Hospital, on Jan. 4, Jan. 7, and Jan. 11. Hours 11 to 1. Tickets
5s. each. Address C. Carter Blake, care of 38, Great Russell-
street, W.C.
IADBROKE HALL, LADBROKE
i GROVE ROAD, NOTTING HILL, W. (Not Netting
Hill Gate).
A SERIES OF SUNDAY SERVICES for the dissemination
of the Gospel of Spiritual Truth are in course of delivery in
the above Hall, by W. H. LAMBELLE, who will deliver a
course of addresses on the “ ORIGIN OF RELIGIOUS RITES
AND CEREMONIES.”
Doors open at 6.30 and closed at 7 promptly, to prevent
interruption during the progress of the Services.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following engagements:—Perry Barr Institute,
December 3,1878; New Swindon Mechanics’ Institute, January
8,1879. Coalbrookdale Literary Institute, January 21 (Second
time this season). Hastings, Gensing Hall, Afternoon and
Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial Society, February
4. Leamington Institute, February 25. Croydon Literary
Institution, March 6 (2nd time). Favourable terms arranged
with Institutes en route. For particulars address Mr. Frank
Dietz, 54, Denbigh Street, London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland
Street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
January 15th, 1879, February 12th, March 12th, April 9th, May
14th, June 11th. Tickets for the Series One Guinea each.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Invites your attention to a series of.Tnspirational Addresses on
the Religion of Spiritualism, which he will commence Sun¬
day, January 5th, at the
CAVENDISH ROOMS, MORTIMER ’STREET, W.
The lecture will begin at 7.30; doors closed at 7.45. Ad¬
mission free. No collection taken.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and; Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mb. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS' BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Nov. 4.—Mr. Bonwick, F.R.G.S., “ Soul Ideas amongst the
Ancient Egyptians.”
Nov. 18.—Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, “ Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 1.”
Dec. 2.—Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., ” Spiritualism in
Eastern Lands.”
Dec. 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ The intelligent Operator
at the other end of the Line.”
Jan. 20.—Mr. W. H. Harrison, “ Hauntings.”
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Dr. Carter Blake, “ On the Nerve Ether.”
March 3.—Dr. Wyld. “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mrs. Ellis, “Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2."
April 7.—Dr. Bloede, “ Psychometry.”
April 21.—Mr. C. O. Massey. “ On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May 5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.1 These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ Review of the Session.”
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Authoy, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the test quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & CO.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgatb Circus Buildings,London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERTS for 1879, containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, <fcc., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, <fcc.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London; J. E, Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.O,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Dec. 27, 1878.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.'W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin-, 1 Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Camhriflge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G-i M.g.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Biixton,
S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall,21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood. Mrs.. 62, Warwlek-square, S.W.
Jeneken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C , Barrister-at-Law, Haaicourt-buildings, Temple,
London. E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
read, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill. 1
Blnney, F A.. 24, St, Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Bouwick, J., F.R.G.S.
Chapman, John, 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar.” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 6, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Soutliem-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H . 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 69. Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Sliver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G.. 6. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Olendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 88, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos.. M.P., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20. Delamere-crescent. Westbourne-square, W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. BarL, Lnmport-hall, Northampton.
.Toad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Mai thy, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, NW.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, 'Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, NW.
Newton, W„ 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16. Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Relrrers, Christian, 47, Mornington-road, Regent’s-park.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson,84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8, Museum-villas. Oxford.
Theobald, Morel!, 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen. R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, SW.
Turner. J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss TT., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, SW.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W..
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Yisconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
Cff. Gustave de Yeh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles,Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. Y. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell. La Tresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-sfreet, Carlton, Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr.” Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,986, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town,South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq.. 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de 1’Europe,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther,Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre.Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Antheime Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeek, Lez-
Bruxelies.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, H, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test,Esq., M.D.,Union Springs. Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe. Paris;
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
Lonflon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., II. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 67,.Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eposes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna,
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
II. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BEITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small Svo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.O. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.’,
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state oj trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Past I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Past II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Earewell to Earth;
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientiflo subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened," being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
RIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At_ home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o'clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
BW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefield-road, Kings-
land, N.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may he chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m,
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
The celebrated vocalist and
ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
/characters faithfully deline-
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
(CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
f ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 year
established), attends Patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hiU,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MESMERIC HEALER.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5.
MADAME ZACHRAU, the great American
Natural Clairvoyant and Phrenologist. Consultations
from 10 till 6, at 25, Granville-square, King’s-cross-road,
London, W.O.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
XjL ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15ih of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. \d..—SpiHtudlist Newspaper
Branch Office.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, hoard and all included, £3 per week
each; or. for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Cos-
sonnerie, Paris.
Jt ul ||^ xif nnb tl
Ko. 331.—VoLUjviE Thirteen; Number Twejmty-Six.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 27th, 1878.
THE MANAGEMENT OF SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Those 'who know nothing about the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism should not begin by holding dances with a professional j
physical medium, even supposing they are fortunate enough j
to find a powerful one disengaged, but should form a circle in
their own homes, with no stranger present, in accordance j
with the instructions printed on the last advertisement page |
of this journal.
Probably one-third of the spiritual movement in London
is unseen by the public. Last season we attended as many !
strictly private seances as of those of which the community at
large received information ; and not unfrequently were the |
manifestations weakened by want of knowledge of “condi- I
tions ” on the part of those who convened the little social j
gatherings.
When engaging a physical medium for ordinary dark circle
manifestations, a primary point is to stipulate that he shall
give no other stance previously on the same day, because if
that stance is a strong one, so much vital energy will have
thereby been drawn from him as to leave little or none to
aid in the evolution of manifestations in the evening. If the
sitting in the morning was not a strong one, it may have been
cut short to leave a portion of power for the evening sitting,
which means that two inferior stances were given in one day
instead of a single thoroughly good one. These remarks apply I
to those stances at which solid objects fly about the room in
the dark, and spirits make themselves visible occasionally by I
their own light, while the medium is held by both hands as
he sits among the other members of the circle. Henry Slade
could give a dozen stances or more a day, because vital energy
was drawn almost entirely from his hands only, to produce the
result of direct writing ; but in the other class of manifesta¬
tions energy is drawn from all parts of the body at once.
The next point is to take care that the medium feels
thoroughly happy, and is satisfied with all the company pre¬
sent. Good manifestations depend much on the tranquillity of
his nervous system; a man cannot comfortably pass into a
trance sleep if he thinks that somebody present is thirsting
for his blood; it is not in human nature. So the best plan is
to have a regular circle of five or six thorough Spiritualists,
who should first have two stances with the medium alone,
till he and his spirits and the circle are thoroughly en rapport;
even among friends the first seance is likely to be rather weak,
but the manifestations grow stronger as mutual confidence is
established. The medium should always arrange the sitters,
and select his own place in the circle. After the first two
sittings held to establish harmony, not more than two
inquirers should be admitted at one time to the permanent
circle. These inquirers should not be unwilling witnesses,
dragged to the circle against their will by the unwise attempts
to make proselytes of persons of no natural spirituality of
character. Such observers merely annoy the whole circle ; and
however conclusive the phenomena may be, their order of
mind will not permit them to accept even facts well proved
before their own eyes. Only those individuals who possess
natural spirituality, and who, of their own accord, have begged
some half-dozen times to be admitted to a circle, should be
invited to attend. Then all will pass off smoothly and hap¬
pily, and converts made apace. The man who says it is all
imposture, andthat some day he may favour the “idiots ” in the
circle by sitting with them, should promptly be refused the
great privilege of admission; he should be told that Spirit¬
ualists do not much care to proselytise, and feel no interest in
what he believes or disbelieves ; he should further be told that
he is not shut out from Spiritualism by this decision that he is
not worthy to attend a spirit circle, for he can form one for him¬
self in his own home. Then give him instructions “ how to
form circles at home,” and dismiss him with a benediction.
We have often adopted this course with unspiritual would-be
judges ; it does them a world of good, and puts a stop at the
outset to much nonsense.
Cabinet stances should never be held in the presence of
disbelievers ; even when genuine the appearances are such
that the clumsiest of conjurers can easily imitate them, and
in the past such manifestations have driven away more people
from Spiritualism than they have attracted, except when they
were held under stringent test conditions. The best mediums
can get materialisations in the open circle, while their hands
are held, and without any cabinet at all; such seances should
be encouraged. Cabinet seances, not held under stringent test
conditions, are of a useless nature; they waste the time of
everybody concerned, and usually prevent new inquirers from
having anything more to do with Spiritualism. They expose
the mediums to all kinds of suspicions, which suspicions are
in the majority of cases unjust, but which the sensitives almost
deserve if they expect the public to believe such a stupendous
fact as materialisation, upon no evidence worth the name.
To sum up. To furnish good conditions for home stances
with strong professional physical mediums—1. Have a
guarantee that the medium has given no stance previously
the same day. 2. Have a regular circle of five or six
Spiritualists, all in harmony with each other. 3. Admit
not more than two inquirers at a time, who possess natural
spirituality of character, and who in their hearts are deeply
anxious for information. 4. Let the medium arrange the circle
and his own place in it. 5. Permit nothing in the shape of a
cabinet stance, and hold both the hands of the medium from
I first to last.
There are already symptoms that during the coming
| season more stances than ever will be held in London, and com-
| pliance, as closely as possible, with the above conditions, will
| avert many a failure. The movement will gain considerably
| in standing and in dignity, if it promptly shuts out disagree-
| able people from spirit circles, and makes admission thereto
| the great privilege which it is in realty.
WHOM SHALL WE WORSHIP?
!
We have received the following letter :—
To the, Editor of 11 The Spiritualist.”
Dear Sir,—I notice a suggestion in the last number of
The Spiritualist for united religious services among those
who profess and call themselves Spiritualists ; but there is a lion
j in the path of no phantom kind. Can we agree as to the
| Worthy One to whom we shall render this homage, or what form
| the rendering itself shall take ? Are we to adore sublimated
II matter, omnipotent force, fortuitous concurrence, or limiting
11 ourselves to become Pantheistic, Brahministic, awe-struck
u venerators of the angel “John King ? ” or fusing all minor
11 differences, to be content with mystic gazing into the infinite
| i moonshine of the future ?
> | Are we to worship round a dissecting table, a spiritually
! | wrecked music stool, a test-tube of blue sky, in an oak grove,
! I before the unveiled Isis, or in Lamb’s Conduit-street, on our
j heads or our heels ? Are our prophets to be decently schooled,
I or is Milton to be allowed to have his grammar muddled, as
| I have too often heard it muddled, by “ speakers with
I tongues,” and “pythonesses,” on various “progressive”
j platforms ? Finally, if the guides Shakespeare and Milton
| should differ on 41 fundamentals, ” do we take our choice, or
I fight it out 1—I am, sir, yours ever, No Matter Who.
| Our reply to the above letter is, “ Worship God.”
! If our correspondent asks for a more precise definition of
I The Master who is to be adored, the following committee
| might be appointed to give it—viz., the Archbishops of Canter-
| bury and York, the Pope of Rome, the Sultan of Turkey, the
! Patriarch of the Greek Church, the chief representatives of
I' the Brahininical and Buddhist Churches, and the President of
S02
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 27, 1878.
the National Association of Spiritualists, likewise those wor- j j
shippers of the Unknown God, Professor Huxley and Professor 11 j
Tyndall, whose “ position ’ ’ is that they are unacquainted with the j [ j
Deity, and under no obligation to define Him. Furthermore, j 1
Mr. Bradlaugh might be appointed to represent Atheism. Our j j
correspondent, after making affirmation that he has no undue j (|
prejudice or bias for or against any of the sections of religious
thought represented by the rest of the members of the com¬
mittee, should be appointed chairman.
If these heads of religious thought cannot agree among
themselves as to whom we shall worship, even under the
guidance of their unprejudiced chairman, why ask for a decision
through the public press ?
Would he repudiate the definition arrived at by this repre¬
sentative committee, and appeal for an answer to the multi- j
tude, to the tens of thousands of preachers in the tens of |
thousands of the pulpits of the world ? Would he appeal to
the myriads of teachers of those millions of different religions
which probably prevail on other planets than ours ? If so, a
Spiritualistic preacher has perhaps as much right to be heard
as any other, therefore we bring one of the inspirational
sermons of Lizzie Doten, the American trance medium, to the
front. Her text was, “And I saw no temple therein.”
(Rev. xxi. 22):—
’Twas the ominous month of October—
How the memories rise in my soul!
How they swell like a sea in my soul!—
When a spirit, sad, silent, and sober,
Whose glance was a word of control,
Drew me down to the dark Lake Avernus,
In the desolate Kingdom of Death—
To the mist-covered Lake of Avernus,
In the ghoul-haunted Kingdom of Death.
And there, as I shivered and waited,
I talked with the Souls of the Dead—•
With those whom the living call dead;
The lawless, the lone, and the hated,
Who broke from their bondage and fled—
From madness and misery fled.
Each word was a burning eruption
That leapt from a crater of flame—
A red, lava-tide of corruption,
That out of life’s sediment came,
From the scoriae natures God gave them,
Compounded of glory and shame.
“ Aboard!” cries our pilot and leader;
Then wildly we rush to embark,
We recklessly rush to embark;
And forth in our ghostly Ellida,*
We swept in the silence and dark—
0 God 1 on that black Lake Avernus,
Where vampyres drink even the breath,
On that terrible Lake of Avernus,
Leading down to the whirlpool of Death!
It was there the Eumenides found us,
In sight of no shelter or shore—
No beacon or light from the shore.
They lashed up the white waves around us,
We sank in the waters’ wild roar ;
But not to the regions infernal,
Through the billows of sulphurous flame,
But unto the City Eternal,
The home of the Blessed, we came.
To the gates of the Beautiful City,
All fainting and weary we pressed,
Impatient and hopeful we pressed.
“ 0 Heart of the Holy, take pity,
And welcome us home to our rest!
Pursued by the Fates and the Furies,
In darkness and danger we fled—
From the pitiless Fates and the Furies,
Through the desolate realms of the Dead.”
“ Jure Dm'no, I here claim admission!”
Exclaimed a proud prelate, who rushed to the
gate;
f Ave Santissimo, hear my petition,
* The dragon ship of the Norse mythology.
Holy Saint Peter ; 0 why should I wait 1
0 fans pietatis, 0 glorious flood,
My soul is washed clean in the Lamb’s precious
blood.”
Like the song of a bird that yet lingers,
When the wide-wandering warbler has flown;
Like the wind-harp by iEolus blown,
As if touched by the lightest of fingers,
The portal wide open was thrown;
And we saw—not the holy Saint Peter,
Not even an angel of light,
But a vision far dearer and sweeter,
Not brilliant nor blindingly bright,
But marvellous unto the sight!
In the midst of the mystical splendour,
Stood a beautiful, beautiful child—
A golden-haired, azure-eyed child.
With a look that was touching and tender,
She stretched out her white hand and smiled:
” Ay, welcome, thrice welcome, poor mortals,
O why do ye linger and wait ?
Come fearlessly in at these portals—
No warder keeps watch at the gate!”
“ Gloria Deo ! Te Deum laudamus /”
Exclaimed the proud prelate, “I’m safe into
[ ( Heaven;
Through the blood of the Lamb, and the martyrs
who claim us,
My soul has been purchased, my sins are for¬
given !
I tread where the saints and the martyrs have
trod—
Lead on, thou fair child, to the temple of
God! ”
The child stood in silence and wonder,
Then bowed down her beautiful head,
And even as fragrance is shed
From the lily the waves have swept under,
She meekly and tenderly said—
So simply and truthfully said:
“In vain do ye seek to behold Him;
He dwells in no temple apart;
The height of the heavens cannot hold Him,
And yet He is here in my heart—
He is here, and He will not depart.”
Then out from the mystical splendour,
The swift-changing, crystalline light,
The rainbow-hued, scintillant light,
Gleamed faces more touching and tender
Than ever had greeted our sight—
Our sin-blinded, death-darkened sight;
And they sang: “ Welcome home to the Kingdom,
Ye earth-born and serpent-beguiled;
The Lord is the light of this Kingdom,
And His temple the heart of a child;
Of a trustful and teachable child,
Ye are born to the life of the Kingdom—
Receive, and believe, as a child.”
A PRIVATE SEANCE.
Last Saturday night a private stance was held at the
house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Gros-
venor-square, London. Mr. Rita was the medium. The
guests present were seated round a table in the following
order, with their hands interlinked;—Mr. Rita, Miss Mattie
Houghton, Mr. Mayne, Mrs. Dunbar, Mrs. Ramsay, Mr.
C. 0. Massey, the Venerable Archdeacon Dunbar, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, and Mrs. Wiseman.
In the dark, three chairs were almost noiselessly placed upon
the small table; one of them was neatly placed upon the
other two. A little musical-box tapped the ceiling a few
times; a materialised form, in white drapery, was seen by
everybody present four or five times, feebly illuminated by
its own light, whereby the head and shoulders momentarily
became dimly visible. Mrs. Wiseman and Miss. M. Hough¬
ton testified that they held Mr. Rita’s hands while the form
was seen and the chairs placed on the table.
Dec. 27, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
803
THE* BIBLE AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM *
BY 0. J. SNEATH.
“ He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly and
shame unto him.”—Proverbs xviii. 13.
Under this heading, ladies and gentlemen, I propose to I
consider three lectures on modern Spiritualism, recently de¬
livered in the Church of the Saviour, by Mr. George St.
Clair. I consider it right that the pulpit should from time |
to time take notice of modern Spiritualism. Some people j
might question its qualification to undertake the task; but j
although Mr. St. Clair has not devoted a lifetime to the j
study of Spiritualism, he has given some time to its j
investigation, evidently quite sufficient, in his own opinion,
to qualify him for the office of a judge and guide. We live j-
in an age in which every one is allowed to enjoy his own
opinion, and I must say that after listening to the lectures j
in question with all the attention I could command, I found I
myself irresistibly forced to a directly opposite conclusion, j
I thought that the lecturer was incompetent to deal with the j
subject, not merely from his want of adequate knowledge of I
modern Spiritualism, but also from a want of critical in- |
formation upon or, at any rate, a careful attention to those j
passages of Scripture to which he referred in the course of |
his remarks. I am aware that this is a strong statement,
and I will therefore add, before proceeding further, that if I j
do not establish it to your satisfaction, I will retract it as j
publicly as I have now made it.
The subject of the first of Mr. St. Clair’s lectures was the j
story of the Witch of Endor, as contained in the 28 c., 1st j
Book of Samuel, and its connection with modern Spiritu- |
alism. After briefly repeating the narrative, which had been j
previously read as the evening lesson, Mr. St. Clair pro- j
ceeded to sift it—a plan which, he said, he always adopts
with regard to any important fact coming under his notice.
According to this sifting, the so-called Witch of Endor, we |
were informed, was simply an impostor. He said that she j
must have known Saul from the very first, in spite of her j
pretended ignorance"; for although he came to her in dis- |
guise and by night, no disguise could possibly have deceived j
her, since it was said in an earlier part of the same book j
that “ from his shoulders and upwards he was taller than any I
of the people.” Knowing who he was, her first object was to j
ascertain the purpose of his visit. <£ Whom shall I bring j
up unto thee ? ” But could any one suppose for a moment j j
that the great army of the mighty dead was at the command j
of this miserable trickster ? She no sooner learns that Saul j
wishes to see Samuel than she pretends to see the deceased j
prophet. “ I see a god or judge ascending out of the earth; j
he is an old man, and covered with a mantle.” Saul J
thoroughly believed in witches, and no sooner heard the i
woman’s exclamation than he bowed himself to the earth {
before the imaginary Samuel. The king then being in a !
satisfactory state of mind, the woman proceeded to imitate j
Samuel’s voice—the very Hebrew word (od) by which he is j
designated denoting that she was a ventriloquist—and she j
says, “Why hast thou disquieted me to bring me up?” |
giving us, in these words, another proof of imposture. For j
although the Jews of that time believed in sfieol, a sub- |
terraneous place to which the soul passed at death, we know j
that no such place exists, and that Samuel must have known I
it also when he passed into the unseen world. Saul pro- |
ceeded to state the cause of his distress, and to ask the j |
assistance of the prophet. Then the woman, still personal- j |
ing Samuel, delivered- the sentence contained in the narrative, j
informing Saul that he and his sons would be slain in the I j
coming battle ; that the Israelites would be taken captive ; i j
and that David would reign in his stead—a prediction by no H
means difficult to utter, when we bear in mind that she must j!
have known all the circumstances connected with David, and i J
that in the approaching battle the chances were ten to one j1
against Saul and the Israelites. Moreover, it should be i!
observed that Saul did not see Samuel during this interview, j J
It was something like a seance amongst modern Spiritualists, j1
It was true that the writer of the book informs us that t!
Samuel spoke to Saul, and “ that Saul was afraid because j!
of the words of Samuel; ” but he was, of course, a thorough
believer in witchcraft, like all the other people of the age in
* A lecture, recently delivered in the Temperance Hall, Birmingham, in reply to three
lectures on the above subject, by the Rev. G-, St, Clair,
| which he lived. Such, in a few words, was Mr. St. Clair’s
| 1 sifting,” from which I have not intentionally omitted a
single point of importance.
I shall not weary your patience by replying to it in detail,
but proceed to use it in a way which never seems to have
entered the mind of the sifter, although I doubt not that to
you it will appear perfectly simple and natural. Here, then,
according to Mr. St. Clair, we have, in the so-called Witch
of Endor, a woman who gets her daily living by cheating;
that is, she does so whenever she can find a person foolish
: enough to be duped, and on this occasion she had a dupe in
the person of the King of Israel. She knew perfectly well
who he was; she knew that he was that man of whom David
says that he “ clothed the women with scarlet and other
delights;” and she must have felt quite certain that he had a
| handsome present for her, if only she could comply with his
| wishes. She knew also that he had put all such persons as
I herself out of the land, consequently how dangerous it would
| be to thwart or contradict him. She was aware how he had
hunted David almost to the death, how on one occasion he had
thrown a javelin at him to destroy him, and how even his own
son’s life was in jeopardy for defending him; finally, she was
aware that a battle was imminent, in which the chances were
ten to one against Saul. And now, on the eve of the battle,
this very Saul has come to her for the purpose of obtaining
advice and assistance. I therefore ask, How would an
ordinary impostor have been likely to have acted under such
circumstances ? Would he not have adopted the course
followed by the false prophets of Ahab in after times ?
Would he not have said, “ Go and prosper, for the Lord
shall deliver thine enemies into thy hands? ” Why did not
| the so-called Witch of Endor adopt a similar course ? I must
j remind you that if she had done so she could have had
j nothing to fear, however the matter might turn out. If Saul
j came back victorious she would no doubt have been raised to
I the highest pinnacle of honour as his best counsellor; while
| if he fell in the battle, as he was most likely to do, “ dead
| men tell no tales and do no mischief.” Yet, with everything
| to fear and positively nothing to gain, we are expected to
I believe that a miserable impostor stands before the King of
I Israel, knowing all the circumstances connected with him,
I and imitating the voice of Samuel, to thus address him—
| “ Wherefore, then, dost thou ask of me, seeing the Lord is
| departed from thee, and is become thine enemy ? And the
| Lord hath done to him, as He spake by me : for the Lord
| hath rent the kingdom out of thine hand, and given it to
| thy neighbour, even to David. Because thou obeyedst not
| the voice of the Lord, nor executedst His fierce wrath upon
Amalek, therefore hath the Lord done this thing unto thee
this day. Moreover, the Lord will also deliver Israel with
thee into the hand of the Philistines: and to-morrow shalt
thou and thy sons be with me ! ”
We now pass on to the sequel. Saul has fallen to the
earth, overcome partly by fatigue, and partly, so the sacred
writer tells us, because of the words of Samuel. Now
notice the woman’s words and actions. “ And the woman
came unto Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said
unto him, “ Behold, thine handmaid hath obeyed thy voice,
and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto
thy words which thou spakest unto me. Now therefore, I
pray thee, hearken thou also unto the voice of thine hand¬
maid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat,
that thou mayest have strength when thou goest on thy
way.”
She killed the fatted calf which was with her in the house
and trod out her corn ; she baked unleavened bread, and set
| the meal before Saul and his servants, all—so far as the his¬
tory tells us—without the slightest fee or reward. She did
everything in her power to alleviate the king’s distress—
| everything except one, and that was the very thing of all
| others which an impostor would have been certain to have
I done. She does not say “ Samuel has relented; the Lord
shall deliver thine enemies into thine hand.” No. The
I sentence remains unaltered and unalterable. In it we have a
| repetition of the words of Samuel when upon earth—‘ ‘ Be-
; cause thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, He hath also
i rejected thee from being king.” But in her behaviour
1 towards the king, in her affectionate, passionate sympathy,
1 in her generous, disinterested hospitality, we have, unless I
304
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 27, 1878.
am altogether mistaken in my estimate of human nature,
the characteristics of a true and veritable woman. On the
whole, therefore, I maintain with the writer of this book, that
it Teas the apparition of Samuel, and no other, which appeared
to Saul. Mr. St. Clair, on the contrary, holds that the
woman was a mere cheat, the interview like a modern
spiritualistic stance (very complimentary to Spiritualists, by
the way), that modern Spiritualism is a superstition,
mediums impostors, and Spiritualists under a delusion.
DREAMS, TRAXCES, AND “ SPEAKING- WITH TONGUES.”
The subject of the second lecture was the trance visions of
Peter and Cornelius, as contrasted with the trance medium-
ship of modern Spiritualism. Mr. St. Clair commenced his
lecture by remarking that though he had no faith in the
Witch of Endor, he had faith in Peter. But I regret to say
that before the lecturer had proceeded very far, I came to the
conclusion that I should be very sorry for any friend of mine
to have a similar faith in me to that which Mr. St. Clair had
in Peter. Although few persons would see any great
difficulty in understanding the tenth chapter of the Acts of the
Apostles, the subject was prefaced by an introduction, in
order to guard us against certain errors in reference to dreams
and fasting. Dreams, we were informed, whether by day or
night, were the reflections of thoughts which had occupied
the mind in the waking state, and were more or less con¬
fused according to circumstances; they were, in fact, the
result of an overworked brain, or a bad state of health.
Many people on recovering from a long illness, or after long
abstinence from food, had seen remarkable things which, in
reality, had no existence. The way being thus prepared, we
were introduced to the history, or rather, to speak more
correctly, to Mr. St. Clair’s explanation of it. Peter, we
were told, had been preaching to the Jewish proselytes ; he
was a mixture of Jew and Gentile, and this would naturally
lead him to think whether it was not his duty to try to
convert the Gentiles proper. But Peter was also a Jew, and
imbued with the prejudices peculiar to his nation; conse¬
quently he would think of the command of Christ respecting
their conversion. After the morning service was over he
went upon the house top, probably with these very thoughts
in his mind; he became hungry, and while food was being
prepared he fell asleep, and saw in a dream a vessel, as it
had been a great sheet let down from heaven, upon which
were wild beasts, and creeping things, and fowls of the air,
and he heard a voice, “ Rise, Peter; kill and eat.” He had
these dream experiences, said Mr. St. Clair, because he was
hungry; the dream was but a confused reflection of his
waking thoughts. “ Not so, Lord; for I have never eaten any¬
thing that is common or unclean.” Here we have the
reflection of Peter’s Jewish prejudices. “ What God hath
cleansed, that call not thou common.” Here, again, we have
the reflection of Peter’s better nature. But no one else on
the house top could have seen or heard anything. There
were no beasts, no sheet, no angel. The dream was the
mere reflection of Peter’s waking thoughts. The case of
Cornelius was even more easily explained. He was a Roman
centurion, but evidently very attached to the Jewish form of
worship. He had heard of Christ, perhaps had even
listened to Him, and probably often listened to Peter.
Ought he to embrace Christ’s religion ? Should he send for
Peter ? He has been fasting until a late hour in the day,
fell into a trance, and saw an angel who said to him, “Cor¬
nelius, thy prayers are heard, and thine alms are had in
remembrance in the sight of God: and now call for Simon,
whose surname is Peter.” He had been praying and think¬
ing of Peter, consequently the angel in his dream said,
“ Thy prayer is heard; send for Peter.” This dream is
again but a reflection of waking thoughts. No one can deny
that this explanation is clever. It has, in fact, only one
fault, and that is, that it has not a shadow of foundation in
the original. It is not the tenth chapter of the Acts of the
Apostles pure and simple, but the tenth chapter of the Acts
of the Apostles revised and corrected by Mr. George St.
Clair. There is no reason to think that Cornelius was at all
favourable to the Christian religion. He had doubtless
heard of Christ and Peter, perhaps even listened to them,
but there is no reason to suppose that he had the slightest
intention of becoming a disciple; he does not even appear
j 11 to have been what the Jews call “ a proselyte of righteous-
| (| ness.” All we hear of him is that “ He was a devout man,
111 and one that feared God with all his house, which gave much
| (I alms to the people, and prayed to God alway;” and that he
I (| saw in a vision, evidently at about the ninth hour of the day,
| | an angel of God coming in to him, and saying unto him,
| j “ ‘ Cornelius.’ And when he looked on him he was afraid,
j | and said, i What is it, Lord ?j And he said unto him,
m 1 Thy prayers and thine alms are come up for a memorial
| < j before God. And now send men to Joppa, and call for one
| | Simon, whose surname is Peter. He lodgeth with one
! | Simon, a tanner, whose house is by the sea-side: he shall
| | tell thee what thou oughtest to do.’ ” This is rather a con-
111 nected message I think to emanate from a half-awake brain.
111 It may be said that Cornelius was well acquainted with
| j | Peter, and was even thinking of sending for him. But
j I where is the proof? It is hardly likely that a Roman
| i centurion would have been so intimately acquainted with
| I the poor fisherman as to have known both his names and
| | the exact place of his abode. Yet in the dream these are
| | given with as much accuracy as though they had been
| (| actually copied from a modern Post-office directory. We now
| J turn to Peter. There is not a shadow of proof that he had
| (| ever once thought of converting the Gentiles. It is true
111 Christ had commanded that the Gentiles should be con-
II i verted, but the Apostles seem to have forgotten this com-
| (| mand as completely as they forgot His promise to rise from
I | the dead, of which they had to be reminded, first by an
I | angel, if there be such a being, and afterwards by the Lord
I | Himself. Of course there was no sheet, or .beast, or
I | creeping thing. The dream was evidently an allegorical
| | one, for the purpose of teaching Peter a great truth, as we
] (! sometimes teach children and savages by means of pictures;
| | and in this sense Peter evidently understood it.
I We now notice the dialogue of the dream. “ Rise, Peter:
(| kill and eat.” ‘‘Not so, Lord; for I have never eaten any-
| thing that is common or unclean.” “What God hath cleansed,
| ( that call not thou common.” Was this a mere conver-
i sation between Peter and Peter ? If so, it was a remarkable
j one under the circumstances, for no sooner does Peter wake
| than he finds that three men are actually standing before his
| gate and inquiring for him. And the Spirit said unto him,
j “ Behold, three men seek thee. Arise, therefore, and get
II thee down, and go with them, doubting nothing; for I have
| sent them.” The “ spirit ” said to him. What sort of
11 spirit ? An angel ? Oh, dear no ! Peter’s spirit, of course;
j | for if Peter could talk to Peter while asleep, surely Peter
11 could talk to Peter when awake. “ Nothing doubting, for
11 T have sent them.” Nothing of the kind; Cornelius sent
(! them. The dream caused him to do so, and that has already
| been satisfactorily explained. But Peter did go with the
s | men, and when he entered the house of Cornelius and found
/|j his friends and kinsmen assembled together, he thus ad-
)! dressed them—“ Ye know how that it is an unlawful thing
(| for a man that is a Jew to keep company, or come unto one
| of another nation; but God hath showed me that I should
I not call any man common or unclean.”
j j “ God hath showed you ? ” No ! Peter; you have made
I a mistake. Do not you recollect how you had been thinking
I of trying to convert those poor Gentiles, and that you neg-
< I lected to take your food at the proper time; you were only a
] | little out of sorts, that is all. But Peter believed in dreams,
| i and his faith was soon rewarded, for we read that as he spake
11 the Holy Ghost fell on all them which heard the word, and
) | they spake with tongues and prophesied.” But we have not
11 yet done with the matter. The believing Jews were angry
| with Peter; their prejudices were shocked. “ Thou wentest
)j in to men uncircumcised and didst eat with them.” And
(I what did Peter say in reply ? What he ought to have said
) I would have been something of this kind—“ Really, my
) | brethren, I have done very wrong, and I hardly know how
(! to account for it. The fact is, I have been thinking about
? | those poor ignorant Gentiles, and wondering if I could do
| j anything to enlighten them ; I had been fasting as well, and
(j - I fell into a sort of dream, or reverie, or something of that
? | kind, and saw a great many strange things which I mistook
> | for a Divine revelation. While I was thinking about it three
(I men came to me from Cornelius, the Roman centurion, to
) i fetch me, so I went with them, and actually succeeded in
Dec. 27, 1S78.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
305
converting him and a number of his friends. But I see now
that I was labouring under an insane delusion, and I am
very sorry for what I have done.” This is what Peter should
have said, but somehow he did not say it. No; he rehearsed
the matter we read from the beginning, and expounded it
by order unto them. They were not merely satisfied with the
explanation, but even glorified God, saying, “ Then hath
God also to the Gentiles also granted repentance unto life.”
How they might have acted if they had heard Mr. St. Clair’s
lecture on the subject I must leave you to decide.
I pass on now to the consideration of modern trance
mediumship, which we were told differs very widely from the
trances mentioned in the Bible. Thus Balaam fell into a
trance having his eyes open; but modern mediums, after
going through a variety of contortions (of which the lecturer
attempted an imitation), pass into a trance, if it be a trance,
having their eyes shut. But does this make any very great
difference ? A lady who came from Hastings a few months
ago told me that they had a celebrated preacher there, a Dr.
Jones, who always preached with his eyes shut; but he
preached a sermon, nevertheless. Mr. St. Clair seems to lay
great stress on the case of Balaam, for he read the account
of his trance as one of the evening lessons. I may, however,
just remind him of a circumstance which seems to have
escaped his notice, namely, that trance speaking with the
eyes shut seems to have been common even in the time of
Balaam, or he would hardly have laid such stress on the fact
that he himself fell into a trance having his eyes open. But
the “ trances of Cornelius and Peter were involuntary,”
whereas modern trance mediums seem to go into the trance
state when they like. Does this prove modern mediums
impostors ? Sleep is involuntary to most people, yet Southey
tells-us that John Wesley could go to sleep at will, like a
dog, and no one doubts that his sleep was genuine.
Mediums advertise to deliver addresses in the trance state at
a particular time and place. Yes. But they usually add
one other particular, namely, that the subject of the address
will be chosen by the audience, thus not leaving themselves a
single moment to prepare their remarks, and I engage to
say that there are very few speakers indeed who would
venture to undertake to deliver a public address under the
same conditions, even with the additional advantage of a
perfect acquaintance with the works of Max Muller and
others, which mediums are said by the lecturer to read and
palm off upon Spiritualists as coming from the other world.
Of pulpit orators it maybe said: No doubt “ye are the
people, and wisdom shall die with you.” There were
several other objections to trance addresses in the lecture,
but as they have been made and answered over and over
again, it is unnecessary to refer to them this evening. We
now come to a statement to which I hardly know how to
reply—viz., “ That Spiritualism has given to the world
nothing new or wonderful, and in fact the spirits seem to
know nothing which the medium does not know.” I thought
that this remark came strangely from the lips of Mr. St.
Clair, for whatever merits his lectures may have had, they
certainly did not possess any large amount of originality.
There was indeed one new objection to modern Spirit¬
ualism which I must not omit to notice, viz., a fear on
the part of the lecturer lest, if Spiritualism became
prevalent, we might again have a repetition of that
criminal intimacy between witches and devils which
Luther affirms to have taken place in his day. This was
hardly a delicate remark to address to a mixed congregation;
still, as applied to modern Spiritualism, I believe the objection
to be a perfectly new one, and I wish to give the lecturer
every credit for its discovery; but, as I should be sorry to
raise a blush upon any cheek this evening, I shall make him
a present of the objection without offering the slightest
reply. Spiritualism, he sayjs, has given to the world nothing
new or wonderful. Spirits seem, in fact, to know nothing
which the medium does not know. The shortest way to
meet this statement would be by a plain contradiction ; but
as that would hardly be courteous, I will adopt another plan.
It is a fact which can be overwhelmingly proved that many
persons in the trance state have spoken various languages
which they have never learned. The late Judge Edmonds
assures us that his own daughter, who only understood
English and a smattering of boarding-school French, was in
! the habit, while under spirit influence, of speaking in nine or
I ten different languages for more than an hour at a time with
| the ease of a native—Greek, Latin, Italian, Portuguese,
Polish, and Hungarian were among the number. He in-
| forms us that it was not an unfrequent occurrence for
foreigners to call at his house in order that, through
her mediumship, they might converse with their de-
| parted friends in their own tongue, of which he related
particular instances. He further informs us that during
! | his investigations into Spiritualism he would go into his own
II room, and deliberately write down a number of carefully
11 prepared questions which he would place in his pocket, yet
> | on reaching the circle those questions would be correctly
| answered, and in the very order in which they were written,
| although he had never taken the memorandum from his
| pocket, and no one but himself was aware of its existence.
He further assures us that purposes which he had formed in
his own mind, but told to none, and even his most secret
thoughts, which he had never revealed to man or woman,
have been publicly told to him at a spirit circle in a similar
| manner. Here then there is no room for mere imagina-
| * tion; either we must believe that Judge Edmonds—against
whose moral character no one has ever whispered a suspicion
of deceit—attempted to palm on the world a tissue of cruel,
wicked, and unmeaning untruths, or else that Spiritualism
has given to the World something new and wonderful, and
something far beyond the capacity of the most extraordinary
medium in the normal state. Moreover, justice compels me
to add that while Judge Edmonds devoted twenty-three
months to the investigation of the subject, bringing all
his legal knowledge to bear upon the matter — and
he is admitted to have been one of the greatest lawyers
of the day—Mr. St. Clair considered himself perfectly
justified in preaching against modern Spiritualism from
the Church of the Saviour platform, at the very time
when he was holding stances in his own house for the alleged
purpose of ascertaining whether it was true. What would
be said of a man of science who acted in the same way
| in reference to anatomy or electricity ? I might men-
| tion ^many other facts equally remarkable did time per-
; mit, but will content myself by referring those who wish
| for further information upon trance or inspirational medium-
11 ship to the works of Andrew Jackson Davis, the orations of
| Mrs. Tappan, the poetical works of the Rev. T. L. Harris,
)j the poems of Lizzie Doten, and last, but not least, to that
(| remarkable work, entitled Jrlafed, Prince of Persia, given
/ i through the mediumship of David Duguid, the well-known
i trance and painting medium of Glasgow. It is a sad sight
j indeed to see a minister of religion, whose business it should
| be to assist his people in the search after truth, standing
| before his congregation and publicly making the assertions we
| have been considering, when it must have peen perfectly
I evident to any one who had the slightest acquaintance with
i the subject that he had scarcely touched the very fringe of
| the skirt of Spiritualistic literature. I can quite believe that
/ ] Spiritualism has not taught him anything new or wonderful;
I | but I must at the same time remind him of the advice of a
| | Hindoo philosopher—“ Never utter these .words : ‘ I do not
[ know this, therefore it is false.’ . One must study to know,
| j know to understand, understand to judge.” .
I i SPIRIT FORMS. AND SPIRIT HANDS.—THE LEVITATION OP THE HUMAN BODY.
(j The subject of the third lecture was ‘'Materialisation.”
I j | The lesson was taken from the fifth chapter of the Book of
j | Daniel, containing an account of the materialised hand seen
S i in the palace at Babylon, and the text was St. Luke, chap. 24,
j | vv. 36 to 43, containing an account of our Lord’s first appear-
| j ance to His assembled disciples after His crucifixion. The
| | lecturer commenced with a long introduction on “ matter.”
j I We were told that matter was governed by certain known
| | laws which were absolutely unalterable. Thus matter could
| | not go through matter ; you might knock your head against
y a brick wall but you could not get through it. Matter was
j | indestructible ; you might weigh a quantity of coal, and if,
I (| after burning it, you could gather up the fragments and gases
Ii of which it was composed, they would be found to weigh
I exactly as much as the original piece of coal. Then there
| was the law of gravitation; a balloon did not rise in the air of
I itself as it appeared to do, but simply because the air under-
i neath it was heavier and forced it up. All this I knew before,
306
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 27, 1878.
but I did not know until then that Mr. St. Clair held the
old materialistic theory that a spirit was not material,
and consequently could not he seen. I had always imagined
that there was only one pure Spirit, ‘ ‘ Whom no man hath
seen nor can see but that all other spirits were clothed with
some kind of material body, although of a purer substance
than our own. Armed with the knowledge of the un¬
alterable laws of matter, and with the consequent possibilities
and impossibilities of nature, we were introduced to the
subject of levitation. Mr. Home, we were told, is said to
have been many times levitated. Once at Ashley House, in
the presence of the Master of Lindsay and Lord Adare, he
was levitated and floated out at one window and in at another,
without any human support, at a distance of 85 feet from the
ground. Now this is an awkward statement, because if it
should turn out to be true, it destroys Mr. St. Clair’s mate¬
rialistic temple as completely as Sampson is said to have
destroyed the temple of Dagon. Hence it is of the greatest
importance to get rid of it as quickly and effectually as
possible ; so we were reminded that levitation is no new thing,
it is merely an old story revived. He remarked that St.
Francis d’Assisi and St. Theresa are said to have been
levitated, that the facts were confirmed by persons who
profess to have seen them in that position ; but this being
contrary to the laws of gravitation was therefore im¬
possible. He could quite believe that those pious persons
thought that they were so levitated. And as for the people
who professed to have seen them standing in mid-air,
we know hoW easily people are deceived. We have not for¬
gotten how, once upon a time, a wag took up his position in
front of Cumberland House, and after fixing his eyes for
some time on the lion that once stood at the top of it, at
length exclaimed, with befitting solemnity, * ‘ By Heavens !
it moves!” and how he actually succeeded in deluding a
number of persons into the belief that they positively saw the
metal lion on Cumberland House wag its tail. We have
lately heard a great deal about this lion’s tail; but as we are
not now in a position to examine the people who professed to
have seen it wag, and as we have received no special informa¬
tion respecting it from a gentleman well skilled in the natural
history of tails, we must dismiss the narrative from our con¬
sideration. But I cannot so easily dismiss Mr. St. Clair’s
argument. I always thought that when any extraordinary
phenomena occurred at the present day, supposing it to be
well-authenticated, that it was always understood to give a
certain amount of probability to any similar occurrence
alleged to have taken place in the past. But this common-
sense reasoning seems to be reversed in the argument now
before us, for we are told, in effect, that Home could not
possibly have been levitated, because several other persons
are said to have been similarly levitated before he was born.
This reasoning is so very strange^hat I must illustrate it. A
house is broken into in an -extraordinary manner, but the
thief is detected on the spot, carried to prison, and in due
time brought up for trial. What would be thought of a
magistrate who under such circumstances should address the
prisoner in the following manner—“ You stand here charged
with having broken into a house ; several persons here present
have sworn to the fact and to your identity : still, I do not
feel justified in passing sentence upon you. I was reading
the other day an account of how a number of persons had
been deluded by a wag into the belief that they saw the lion
on Cumberland House wag its tail. Hence it seems to me
quite possible that the witnesses in question may be mistaken
as to the alleged fact, or as to your identity. Furthermore,
as my own great-grandfather’s house was broken into, I feel
bound to give you the benefit of the doubt and acquit you.”
Such a magistrate would hardly keep his seat long, and I fail
to understand why we should have one kind of logic for the
police-court and another for the pulpit. The matter before
us is one of simple evidence. Mr. Home is said to have been
many times levitated. Is this statement true or false ? Now,
there are at least fifty respectable, intelligent persons in
London at the present time who are prepared to swear that
he has been levitated in their presence ; and there are
a number of persons on the other side of the Atlantic who
are equally ready to bear similar testimony. The following
example I take from Dr. Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and
Modern /Spiritualism, vol. 2, page 24. On the 8th August,
! 1852, several gentlemen were assembled at the residence of
| Ward Cheney, Esquire, Manchester, Conn., where in the
| course of the evening very remarkable demonstrations
| occurred. One of the editors of the Hartford Times was
II j present, and from his account of the exhibition, as published
j 11 in that paper, I cut the following paragraph :—“ Suddenly,
j and without any expectation on the part of the company,
jjj the medium, Mr. Home, was taken up in the air. I had
| I hold of his hand at the time, and I felt his feet; they
| ! were lifted a foot from the floor. He palpitated from head
I to foot with the contending emotions of joy and fear, which
| choked his utterance. Again and again he was taken from
| the floor, and the third time he was carried to the ceiling of
| the apartment, with which his hands and head came in
| gentle contact. I felt the distance from the soles of
| his boots to the floor, and it was nearly three feet.
I Others touched his feet to satisfy themselves.” Moreover,
| this phenomenon is perfectly common in India at the
| ! present moment. There, under the blaze of a noonday
| I tropical sun, a so-called juggler will fake his seat on the
| | ground in front of an hotel, cover himself over with a cloth,
j I and, after a few minutes, on removing it discover him-
| j self to the assembled crowd suspended cross-legged in mid-
III air. No restriction is placed on the bystanders; any one
j who chooses may thrust his arm or a cane under his body, so
j as to satisfy himself beyond the possibility of a doubt that
j | the juggler is supported by no visible agency. For some
I time so-called men of science denied this fact as being con-
| | trary to the laws of nature ; but facts are stronger than
| | theories, and I cannot help thinking that if Mr. St. Clair had
| known how extremely well this phenomenon was authenti-
| cated, he would hardly have classed it among the many
| impossibilities of modern Spiritualism. I admit, however,
|! that levitation is no new thing; that it is merely an old
| story revived ; for we read in the eighth chapter of the Acts
| of the Apostles, verses 39 and 40, that after Philip had
| baptised the Ethiopian eunuch at Graza, the spirit of the Lord
| caught away Philip, and the eunuch saw him no more. But
I Philip was found at Azotus, thirty miles away. Here we have
| | not mere levitation, but transportation into the bargain. In
j | the third chapter of Ezekiel, verse 14, we read, “ So the spirit
| | lifted me up and took me away ; ” and in the time of Elijah
j | levitation appeared to have been somewhat common, for we
| | read in the 18th chapter, 1 Kings, verse 12, that Obadiah said
! to him, |c And it shall come to pass, as soon as I am gone
| from thee, that the spirit of the Lord shall carry thee
| whither I know not, and so when I come and tell Ahab, and
I he cannot find thee, he shall slay me.”
j {To be continued.')
MR. LAMBELLE AT LADBROKE HALL,
j | Last night I found my way to Ladbroke Hall, in the Ladbroke-
j grove-road, London, where Mr. Lambelle is delivering a series of
Sunday evening discourses. The room is a spacious one, and the
couple of score of persons, including children, who were assembled
there last night hardly redeemed it from an appearance of desolation.
At ten minutes past seven Mr. Lambelle, a young man, appeared on
the platform, accompanied by the gentleman who acted as chairman,
minister, and master of the ceremonies during the evening. For the
j ) comfort of those persons who may have been alarmed by a truculent
| j notice in The Spiritualist to the effect that the doors would be closed
| | punctually at seven o’clock, I may mention that this measure was not
I 11 taken till 7.25, when Mr. Lambelle passed into the trance, and com-
| | menced his part of the proceedings with a prayer to the Father of
| j j spirits. The preliminary service consisted of a portion of Scripture
| | read by the chairman, and two hymns, one from the Spiritual Lyre,
i | the other from Moody and Sankey’s collection. In the former the
j j audience took part; the latter, for want of books, was performed by
111 the chairman’s son, assisted by the kind offices of certain young ladies.
111 The portion of Scripture selected for the evening was the 91st Psalm,
| j:j in which immunity from epidemic diseases is declared to be the
! | j privilege of the righteous.
111 The services, both of the chairman and of his son, who plays the
j j j - harmonium, are contributed voluntarily out of goodwill to Mr.
TV I Lambelle, and a desire to spread the teachings of Spiritualism; When
! j | Mr. Lambelle passed from prayer to preaching, his voice changed from
j j a tone of solemnity to one of heartiness verging on jocularity. His
I | discourse occupied an hour, being full of tedious repetition and un-
THE SPiBITtJALISfc
307
Dec. 27, 1878.
necessary emphasis. But though tedious, it was not rambling. There j (
was a clear line of argument laid down at starting, and adhered to i |
consistently throughout. If Mr. Lambelle were to acknowledge him- j >
self as the author of his own discourse, one might be inclined to ofler j |
a few friendly suggestions. But where is the use of lecturing the i)
denizens of another world upon the rules of rhetoric ? Without pre- j j
tending to reproduce the exact words that fell from the lips of the j (
speaker, I will now present the readers of The Spiritualist with the i )
main points of the discourse in a very abridged form. Any short- i [
comings that may be observed by other hearers will be kindly set down j (
to weakness of memory. j |
Of all sayings that have ever been uttered, none is perhaps so j j
pregnant with wisdom as that of the ancient sage who laid down for j
the guidence of life the brief maxim “ know thyself.” If this i i
principle had always been strictly borne in mind, the world would i ]
have been spared most of the miseries, and would have avoided most | 1
of the errors into which it has fallen. But at the present day religion, j
science, and philosophy all combine to debar you from this self-
knowledge, which is the only true way of salvation. Religion has
issued her fiat—“Hitherto shalt thou come, but no further.” She will
not tolerate free inquiry into the conditions of existence in the world
of spirits. Science has declared that man is a cunning mechanism,
and that nothing exists but matter ; and philosophy has set her seal to
the conclusions of science. All Christians indeed believe that there is
a future life ; but they believe it only as an article of faith, and do
not realise it as a fact of existence. Strange the indifference with which
men contemplate the journey which all must take, and the land
whereto all must come ! If you were about to emigrate to a foreign
country, you would not display this lack of interest. You would buy
every book from which you could extract information, and you would
eagerly seek opportunities of conversing with those who had sojourned
therein. But about that solemn journey, which is the only one
whereon all must go, you do not care to inquire. "Why there should
be such a lack of curiosity on this subject among mankind we cannot
tell: only we think it must be in part due to the numbing influence of
your religious ideas which renders the contemplation of the future
distasteful. It is to help you in freeing yourselves from the triple
oppression of your religion, your science, and your philosophy that we
have come hither to-night. The help we bring is by making known to
you the true conditions of spiritual life, as far as we are enabled to do
through the medium of an artificial language.
There are three questions which present themselves to our considera¬
tion to-night:—
1. What is spirit ?
2. What is the nature of the spiritual world, and where is it l
3. What are the relations that exist between the spiritual world and
the material 1
And first, “What is spirit ? ” Christians talk glibly enough of the
existence of their spirits after death. But what is spirit, and how are
we to conceive of it 1 Is it a cold abstraction, to be conceived only by
negations ? No. If spirit exist at all, it must be a substance. But
when we say that spirit is a substance, we are not saying that spirit is
matter, or that matter is spirit. Nor are we using the word « substance ”
in any abstruse metaphysical sense. By “ substance ” we mean those
essential qualities out of which anything or entity is made up, just as
this table is made out of wood, which is known to us only by its various
qualities. This world is made up of various things or substances made
known to us by our physical senses. Take away those substances and
there is no world—the hills and the valleys, the atmosphere and the rivers
are gone ; and without these and the like, where would be the world ?
Even so, if there be a spiritual world, that world can only be made up
of spiritual substances. That you cannot perceive the world of spirit
does not prove that it cannot exist. For your senses are only con¬
structed to perceive those things to which they stand related : they can
bring you no knowledge of anything beyond these. How, then, are these
spiritual substances to be perceived l Why, of course, by the spiritual
senses ; just as physical substances are perceived by the physical senses.
But it is not enough to say that the spiritual world has substance,
unless we acknowledge also that it has form. Try to imagine a world
which has substance without form ! You cannot frame any idea of it. j
For what is an idea but an image? And what is an image but a j
certain definite form ? A world without volume and shape would be no j
world at all. Yet such is the world which your religion has taught j
you to expect. Things, if they exist, must have substance and form, j
A world devoid of these would be the mere absence of existence—it
would be nothing. Do you imagine that in the spirit-world there
are no hills and valleys, no atmosphere and rivers, no variety of I
forms as there are here ? There are all these, only they are spiritual
and not material. It has been the fashion hitherto to represent spirit j
as the opposite of matter. But by a series of mere negations, you
cannot form any idea of existence: you will arrive at extinction and |
not reality. Spirit is not the antithesis, but the correlative of matter.
And yet how inconsistent is the language which your religion j
teaches you! All Christians believe in angels; they believe that the j
Lord sits in Heaven upon His throne; they speak of the blessed as !
clothed in white, with crowns on their heads, and playing on harps
of gold; and they draw a picture, too, the reverse of this, too doleful
for us here to contemplate, of souls tortured in fire for ever and ever |
—aqd all this in a world where there is no substance, no shapes, no j
.sizes, nothing! What does the hymn say ?— 1
Jf Sweet fields beyond the swelling floods
Stand dressed in living green.”
What kind of fields are these that exist in a formless and insubstantial
world ?
We come now to the question which stood second in our proposed
order of treatment—the nature and place of the spirit-world. Its nature
we have already explained in speaking of spirit. It is a world as real
and as palpable as this world in which you dwell. It has an earth, and
rivers, and mountains, and hills, and valleys, and a sun, and light, and
all that your world contains. Perhaps it will be said that this is
materialising the spirit-world. Well, it would be so if spirit were not
a substance distinct from matter, with subtler properties and a higher
function. Because matter and spirit are both substances, it by no means
follows that matter is spirit and spirit matter, unless there can be no
difference between one substance and another. But between spirit and
matter there is all the difference between the transitory and the eternal.
Your world is fleeting, perishing ; nothing in it is the same one moment
with another. If your sight were fine enough you would see every
object surrounded by an aura—by a stream of particles perpetually
passing away from it. Your very bodies are gone before you can call
them your own: not in every seven years, nor in every three years, but
at every moment do they change in some part of their structure. It i s
not so with the spirit-world: that is the true substance, the one reality;
your world is but the shadow which it brings into being.
And now that we have spoken of the nature of the spirit-world, we
j shall be asked, “ Where is it ? ” Is it in some far-off region of space,
j somewhere above us, in some planet or star ? No. You might travel
for ever into space, and never find it. To the question, “ Where is the
spirit-world ?” we answer, “ It is here.” You are in the spirit-world
now as much as you will ever be. For around you and about you is
the spirit-world; and around and about each material world there is an
envelope encircling and enfolding it, which is its spirit-world: so that
the inhabitants of each may say, “ The spirit-world is here ;” and may
look up, also, and say, If The spirit-world is above us.” Only it must
be seen with the eyes of the spirit, not with those of the flesh. (Here I
expected to hear the familiar lines of Longfellow—
“ The spirit-world around this world of sense,
Floats like an atmosphere, and everywhere
Wafts through these earthly mists and vapours dense
A vital breath of more ethereal air.”)
But because the fleshly eye cannot see it, men think it is not there. And
yet when science tells you that around this earth of yours there are
two mighty oceans, two currents running contrary ways, which you
cannot see, her word is implicitly believed. But when the spirit-
world comes to you, and proclaims its own existence, you set aside
the testimony, and it seems to you as an idle tale. And this merely
because that world is to you invisible! As if a blind man did not
| really exist in a world of light, because the light fails to reach him!
] Or as if a man asleep did not exist in the material world, because he
i is for the time oblivious of it! You may take that man and place
[ him on some giddy precipice, where one step would hurl him into
destruction, and he will not heed it; but when he is recalled to his
| waking state, he will start back with horror. And so, when the
I shackles which bind the soul fall off, and man is roused from his
spiritual lethargy, he discovers that he has been in the world of
| spirits all along, although he knew not of it. Yes: you are in the
| spirit-world now, and that world acts upon you and influences you in
i ways that you dream not of. It was a spiritual impulse that brought
| each one of you here to-night; and you came in obedience to a man-
j date which had not its origin in yourselves, and over which you could
! exercise no control.
We come now to the last division of our subject—the relation of the
spiritual to the material world. Briefly we may say the spiritual world
j stands to the material in the relation of cause to effect. It is prior to
the material world, and independent of it. The spirit-world would
still exist if the world of matter, and all that is therein, were de-
i stroyed; whereas the world of matter has only a dependent and de-
I rived existence. Without spirit the material world would be life-
| less; for one of the principal attributes of matter is inertia. But
you will say you see matter, and you know that that exists, whereas
you do not see the spirit that is said to move it. Why, neither has
any one ever seen a man, not the real man—but only his clothes.
(Are these the same spirits tha,t prompted Herr Teufeldreuck ? Or
did Herr Teufeldreuck on this occasion inspire the spirits ?) The real
man is a spirit even now; and the senses have no relation to the
spiritual world. Do not imagine that anything is explained when
you say that material phenomena are produced by law. They are not
produced by law, but only in accordance with law. Law is but the
order that we observe among them. The law of gravitation, for
instance, is nothing but a series of effects; and the cause of these
effects is spirit. Matter has no power inherent in itself. There is no
earth that can construct itself into houses, nor any food that can trans¬
form itself into an organic world. And as the spiritual world is the
source and cause of the material, so God is the cause of the world of
spirit, and the fountain from which it flows. Oh ! remember that it
is your high privilege to form part of this grand hierarchy now.
| Remember that you are in your own nature spirits, and that an eternity
of consciousness is in store for you.
Such was the substance of Mr. Lambelle’s discourse. For the infor-
1 mation of any persons to whom the ideas contained in it happen to be
i new, I may mention that a clear and forcible statement of precisely
\ the same line of argument is to be found in a little book called The
' Nature of Spirit, by the Rev. Chauncy Giles, a Swedenborgian minister
i in America. St. George Stock,
December 21st, 1878.
308
Dec. 27, 1878.
1? H E SPIRITUAL tST.
WELL-PRO 7ED CLAIRVOYANCE.
( Continued from page 294J
A STRING- OF ANECDOTES.
Professor Charles E. West is principal and proprietor of the
Brooklyn Heights Seminary, at 138, Montague-street, and
he is widely known throughout the city as a scholar, a man of
science, and a Christian gentleman. It was in his institution
that Miss Fancher obtained her education. Immediately
upon hearing of the accident to her, a favourite pupil, he j
went to see her, and barely a week has elapsed since that j
time in which he has not visited her. She has ever been j
delighted to greet him, and has confided to him, as much as j
to any other, her sensations, her joys, her sorrows, her
religious beliefs, her secrets. “I have been there by day j
and by night; have called unexpectedly; have remained their j
for hours at a time,” he said yesterday, “and I have kept
complete memoranda of what I have seen and heard. I never
knew a more truthful, sincere, and intelligent girl than she
has proved herself from the very first of our acquaintance. I
have spent my life in study, and I have devoted very much of
it for the past twelve years to Mollie Fancher’s case. She
has been a revelation to me. I think I have recorded every
change in her mental and physical condition. I have all the
results. It would take you half a day to read what I have
written about her, and even then the wonderful things she
has done are scarcely touched upon. I have been very anxious
that a commission of such men as Tyndall and Huxley and
Agassiz be made up to prosecute a most searching inquiry
into her condition. Indeed, I had arranged with Professor
Wyman, of Harvard University, to come to New York, and, |
with some one else—we had Agassiz in mind—spend weeks
with her. As he was about to start Mollie was taken worse.
She was then in the most death-like condition that we had |
seen her, and we all thought that she must soon pass away.
It was deemed better to postpone Professor Wyman’s visit !
until she was better able to have investigation made. But in \
a few weeks the Professor died, and Agassiz also soon was
gone. She outlived both.
“ I have taken clergymen and physicians to see her. She
mystifies every one. They are charmed by her cheerfulness,
her vivacity, her Christian faith. It is impossible not to
admire her ; yet when they see the beautiful works of art
that she fashions without the aid of the natural eye, and when
they get a glimpse of her wonderful power of so-called second
sight, they become mute, I have seen persons who were
afraid of her as they might be of a veritable ghost or super¬
natural apparition. None in all the hundreds whom I have
seen at her bedside have I heard express a suspicion that she
is an impostor. To see her seems to carry conviction. There
is no more doubt that she does these wonderful things than
that we sit here. I have seen her do them. I have sat in
the twilight of a summer evening and watched her make
fancy-work articles in colours, her right arm bent back of her
head and resting upon a pillow, the hand capable of being
slightly bent at the wrist, her fingers clenched and almost
immovable. To this hand she carried the work in her left
one, of which she has had the full use, and then the needle j j
danced in and out of the canvas drawing every thread to its |
proper place and tension, every colour to the exact spot. I |
knew she was absolutely blind; but even though she had j
vision she could not have seen her work while it was held in j
that position. ' . !
miss fancher’s perception of colours.
“ She distinguished colours with an accuracy that made the I
rest of us ashamed of ourselves. One evening a physician |
was there, and he boldly said that he believed she could not I
detect the different shades. Mollie had a ball of worsted |
thread, in which were probably ten or twelve colours. She |
asked the physician to select one, and he pulled out a piece. | |
Mollie’s face was turned from him, but he had no sooner !
separated it from the others than she cried out, \ Brown.’ It j
was dark in the room, and he went to the window, pushed |
aside the shutter, and examined the worsted. j
“ You are wrong,’ said he, • it’s black ! ’ |
“ ‘It’s brown, most assuredly,’ reiterated she.
‘ ‘ The physician supposed he was right; so he said with |
the utmost confidence, * For once you are in the wrong ; it is j
certainly black.’ Miss Mollie quietly reached for the ball of ‘'
many-coloured worsteds, and pulling therefrom a thread said,
‘ Here is a piece of black—that you have is dark brown.’
The physician compared the two, and then saw that he was
in error and that she was correct.
“ I sat in the room another night,” went on Professor West,
warming up with enthusiasm, ‘c after it had become dark.
Mollie had lost a pet bird—somehow all her pets die very
soon ; she seems to draw the life right out of them—and a
friend had sent the skin to be mounted by a taxidermist.
The stuffed bird was on the mantelpiece. We opened the
door of the cage in which was a live bird, and as Mollie called
to it, it flew to her. She fondled with it for a few minutes,
and then it flew from her. We paid no attention to it, but
soon the girl called it to our attention that the live bird was
on the mantel, curiously inspecting the dead one. It was so
dark that we could not see it at all, and Mollie’s face was
turned from the mantel. We made a light, and sure enough
the canary was in a brown study over the bullfinch. The
girl was absolutely blind, you must remember. The light
was extinguished—for light seems to make Mollie uneasy—
and our conversation went on. After a half hour I asked
her what had become of the bird, and she answered, ‘ Why,
don’t you see him there on the mantel, fast asleep ? ’ We
lighted up again, and there the bird was, its head under
its wing.
PHOTOGRAPHS RECOGNISED,.
“She does all sorts of little things that fill you with
astonishment. Sometimes I have carried to her a photograph
of some one whom she knew before the accident. She always
saw and recognised it before it was taken from my pocket.
I know of many instances in which she has read letters while
they were in an envelope in the pockets of gentlemen. As
for books and newspapers, she reads them readily, no matter
what part of the room they are in. When first taken she
seemed to read by sense of touch, which, by the way, was for
many months the only sense she possessed. Drawing her
thumb over the printed lines with great rapidity, she was able
to tell for a long time thereafter just what the text was. Her
memory of things that happened while she was in that rigid
condition was astonishingly accurate. I took her a book one
day, and she drew her thumb rapidly over the title-page and
began to laugh. Of course I asked the cause of her merri¬
ment, and she answered that , mentioning the name of a
very dear friend, had two years before given her the same
book ; and with that she gave me a running sketch of its
contents in a highly intelligent and surprisingly accurate
manner.
£* She soon ascertained, however, that it was not necessary
to touch the words to understand their meaning, but absorbed
the contents of printed or written matter. She knows when¬
ever the newspapers print anything about her before it is
read to her. The two things that she seems most to dread
are, first of all, any notoriety through public prints or
through the gossip of her friends ; and, second, the being
classed in any manner with clairvoyants or second-sight seers
or Spiritualists, and these dislikes alone should go far toward
making the public believe that she does not attempt im¬
position. Her excessive sensitiveness to all notoriety, and
her sincere desire to keep all knowledge of herself from the
public, remove every motive for deception. To my knowledge
she never has had a penny by her gifts, although having
many opportunities to do so. Many persons thinking that
she is a clairvoyant, have called to consult with her, and
many young men and young women have desired her to tell
their fortunes, but she has not allowed them to be admitted
to the room. She knows who her visitors are long before
they are ushered into the hall below, and she allows them
to see her, or refuses, just as the whim takes her. I took
Kossuth’s sister there just before her departure for the Old
World. Miss Mollie refused to see her. Afterward I asked
Mollie for an explanation. c Why, I didn’t like her looks
when she entered the door,’ was the reply. The door is on
the floor below. Another time I took a gentleman of reputa¬
tion as a scholar. She directed that he be kept from her
room, for the same reason—she did not like his looks. While
she was blind, I took a large man with a great black beard to
her, and said, ‘ What, do you think of this little man with a
smooth, sharp chin % ’ and without turning her face, which
was from us, she answered, ‘ He is very large and has full
Deo. 27, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
309
whiskers ; I can see him.’ She knows what is going on all j
over the country, hut whether from her marvellous sight- | i
seeing or because she reads it, I am unable to say. She is j | j
not willing to talk to visitors about her gifts. The topic is j
painful to her. To her friends, however, she is more free, i 11
and she is quite willing, at times, to explain her sensations, j j j
She tells them where she goes, and what she sees. | j i
“ She has revealed things to me of which I had no concep- 11
tion—mainly while we were talking upon religious topics, j
She is as earnest a Christian as I ever knew. What she sees j j
only makes her faith the stronger ; and I believe that her | j
reason for longing to die is that she may go to heaven. I j I
think she has glimpses of the other world, if she has not ! j j
indeed been there. I cannot tell you that strangely interest- j j |
ing part of her experience. After she is dead it will be J
known ; but it’s more of a revelation than that seen by John | j
from the Isle of Patmos.” j j
“ Does she see friends who have gone before her ? ” j j
“Yes” (speaking with great reluctance). “She sees j j
many of them. She sees her mother. She longs to be with j |
her mother. She says her mother comes to her.” And the j
Professor wiped his eyes, nor did he speak thereafter for many j
minutes. i
A COMMITTEE OF CLERGYMEN. j
“ Tell me more of the strange things she does.”
“Why! bless you! they would fill a book. The trouble j j
with your printing them is, no one will believe them. I have j i
told this girl’s history to hundreds ; they laugh at me. I j j
told it to Dr. Irenmus Prime. He laughed at me. But I | |J
brought him over to Brooklyn to see Miss Mollie, and he went j |
home convinced, but mystified. At the next meeting of the j j
Chi Alpha, the secret society of New York clergymen, Prime, | j
after things began to lag, said, ‘ Do you want to hear an j !
improbable story ? ’ and they all shouted, ‘We do.’ Well, | j
Prime began to tell them the facts about Mollie Fancher, and j j
he had not more than fairly started before they cried, * Hold I |
—enough—that’s too much.’ ‘Hold! yourselves,’ cried | |
Prime, ‘ didn’t I say I was going to tell you an improbable j |
story,’ and he made them hear him through. Then they dis- ) j
cussed it at great length, and appointed a committee to j j
investigate. Over to Brooklyn came the committee, and j j
straight for me, and I read them from my memoranda for an j j j
hour and a half, and then they went up and saw Miss Mollie. j i
They reported to the Chi Alpha that all the wonderful things j,
Prime had told them were true, but it was a case beyond their j j
understanding. j j
“I don’t blame folks for not believing ; it’s past belief, j j
Why, Dr. was for ever making fun of Dr. Speir and j |
myself for believing what the girl does, so one day I took him j
up to see her. * I’ll warrant she’ll perform none of her | I
miracles while I am there,’ he said, while on the way. We j
were not fairly seated before the postman’s rap was heard, j |
and down went Mollie’s aunt, Mrs. Crosby, for the letter, j |
* It’s from my friend So-and-so,’ said Mollie, when her aunt j !
was half way down stairs. Back came Mrs. Crosby with the | j
letter, and Mollie began to tell what was in it. ‘ Take the j ]
slate, ’ said I to the unbelieving physician, ‘ and Molne will j j j
dictate the contents of the letter.’ Mrs. Crosby held on to 1
the epistle, and the doctor took the slate, and Mollie began j j
to repeat the letter. She did not take it in her hand, and j j j
she was not within eight feet of it. After the doctor had I j |
filled two sides of the slate, Mollie asked Mrs. Crosby to open j
and read the letter aloud. This she did, while the doctor ex- |
amined what was on the slate. The letter was exactly the j
same as Mollie had dictated. The doctor went home con- !
vinced of the girl’s marvellous powers. i
“Yes,” said Professor West, in concluding, “I want to j
see a commission of the scientific men of the country investi- j
gate this strange case. The girl is simply a miracle. She j
says she is a miracle, and I know she is one. The entire |
scientific world should know all about her, and I hope the |
time will come when it will.” i
THE TESTIMONY OF PHYSICIANS. )
From the first, Dr. R. Fleet Speir, of 162, Montague-street, |
Brooklyn, has been Miss Fancher’s physician. He has ||
watched her case with unrelenting vigilance, and has made |
full memoranda of every symptom and every change. After j
she had declared that she could not partake of food, that it j
was nauseating and distasteful and worthless, he introduced !!
nourishment through a silver tube. When she was to all
appearance dead—pulsation gone, respiration gone, warmth
gone—he worked over her and restored her. lie has known
of her wonderful physiological condition, and of her singular
mental phenomena. One day he received a note from this
curious patient, warning him that an attempt was to be made
to rob him. He paid not more than passing attention to it,
but next day some one entered his house and took therefrom
a valuable case of surgical instruments. When he has rung
the door bell Miss Fancher has almost invariably called out,
“Aunt, please go down and let in the doctor.” Once or
twice he has halted on the landing at the stair-top while some
other visitor who accompanied him entered the room with
Mrs. Crosby. Miss Fancher, after greeting the new comer,
has said, “Why does the doctor wait outside ? Ask him to
come in.” She has been aware of his presence in the neigh¬
bourhood, and has told, when he was starting from his Mon-'
tague-street residence a mile away from her, that he was
going to call upon her. Dr. Speir has taken Dr. Mitchell,
Dr. Kissam, Dr. Crane, Dr. Ormiston, and many others of
Brooklyn’s best known physicians to see Miss Fancher.
It was Dr. Speir who, in the earlier stages of Miss
Fancher’s illness, tested whether she had partaken of food by
going in suddenly upon her and administering an emetic.
The drug gave her much pain, while the result was convincing
that her stomach was empty. The nature of the medicine
was well known to Miss Fancher, although it had been care¬
fully kept from her. This event was just before she went
into the rigid condition that lasted nine years. As soon as
she emerged from this condition into that of relaxation, three
years ago, her memory of the happenings of nine years was
gone, and she remembered only incidents of previous years.
So nine and a half years after the administering of the test,
as Dr. Speir entered the room Miss Fancher broke out with,
“ You thought I didn’t know why you gave me that medicine,
but I did. You wanted to see whether food was in my
stomach, and you learned that none was there. It made me
feel very sick. You won’t do so again, will you ? ”
Dr. Speir was asked : “Did Mollie Fancher ever warn you
that you were to be robbed, and next day after you received
the warning were you robbed ? ”
“Yes.”
‘ ‘ Do you know of her doing many other equally astonishing
things ? ”
“ I do.”
‘ ‘ Do you think it possible for Miss Fancher to have de¬
ceived you ? ’ ’
“ I never detected the least attempt at deception ; nor have
I ever suspected that deception was practised by her ; I am
convinced that there has been no deception. At the same
time please understand me that I am not a believer in super¬
natural things. I think there must be an explanation for
everything that happens upon this earth ; possibly many of
them are beyond our comprehension in the present condition
of the world’s enlightenment, but they are sure to be made
plain in time.”
“Is it true that Miss Fancher has continued for many
hours in a condition resembling death, with no pulse and no
breath ? ”
“Yes, it is. Her condition has been, I may say, most
remarkable. But Miss Fancher’s case I regard as a pro¬
fessional secret. She desires me not to talk about it, and I
must respect and follow out her wishes.”
“Is it true that she has not partaken of food in all these
thirteen years ? ”
“No ; I cannot say that she has not. I have not been
constantly with her for thirteen years ; she may have taken
food in my absence. Her friends have used every device to
make her take nourishment. Food has been forced upon her,
and artificial means have been resorted to that it might be
carried to her stomach. Nevertheless the amount in the
aggregate must have been very small in all these years.”
“You have considered the case of such extraordinary im¬
portance as to take many physicians to see it ? ”
“I have, and it has excited very much of attention. I
have letters about it from far and near, and the medical
journals have asked for information.”
HOW DOES SHE LIVE?
Dr. Robert Ormiston, who has been one of Miss Fancher’s
§10 THE SPIRITUALIST. Dec. 27, 1878.
physicians from the first, who has seen her constantly in all |
the different conditions of her system, said yesterday that he
was convinced that there could be no deception. He could
find no motive for it, and he did not believe that she attempted j
it. As to her not partaking of food, he had with Dr. Speir i
made tests that satisfied him that she ate no more than she |'
pretended to, and in the aggregate it had not, in all these } <
years, amounted to more than the amount eaten at a single j |
meal by a healthy man. Dr. Ormiston narrated many curious
incidents of the girl’s illness, and verified the facts of her I
physical condition as narrated elsewhere.
“Can you explain why she does not die ?” he was asked.
“I cannot; it sometimes seems incomprehensible to me j!
how she lives with no nourishment except occasional drops of j
fruit juices. Her stomach instantly rejects food if food is j
forced into it. At times she has lost all her senses, and her
body has become cold as though she were dead. Then she j
has rallied, and has become better. She has had many
ailments that of themselves were sufficient to have caused
death in an ordinary person. Last month she had hay fever, I
and just now she has a sort of bloating of face and body. She
is at times intelligent and sharp-witted, and is entertaining |
in her conversation. She has the worst spasms I ever saw a
person recover from, and is a victim to the most violent
attacks of hysteria. She has not exhibited to me much of-her
power of second-sight, yet I am aware that she is capable of
most astonishing things. I have known of remarkable tests
that she has withstood.”
dr. mitchbll’s tests.
Dr. Chauncey L. Mitchell, of 129, Montague-street, one of j
Brooklyn’s oldest and most trusted physicians, said that he j
had known of Miss Fancher’s condition for many years, and
had been interested in it. He had called upon her several
times with Dr. Speir, and at the request of her friends and !
brother physicians, and to satisfy his own curiosity, had made j
some very severe tests. He added : “ While all the circum¬
stances and surroundings from the first disarmed me of the j
suspicion of deception, it was nevertheless difficult for me to
believe that the young woman could subsist upon as small a j
quantity of food as I was assured she had received. Her
mind, too, was capable of such astonishing flights as to ab- |
solutely compel one to doubt; hence I was careful in my j
tests. I may say that they convinced me that Miss Fancher
was not practising or attempting deception. They were per¬
fectly satisfactory, and they have left me at a loss to account |
for, or to understand the laws by which her mind and her j
body are governed. These tests were at an early stage of her
sickness, and I have not repeated them. We physicians are
as a class inclined to look with suspicion upon any case in |
which nature’s known laws are for a long time disregarded,
yet, I believe that, so far as human testimony can prove it, it |!
is proved that Miss Fancher lives without partaking of food
to any considerable amount, and that she possesses in an !
extraordinary degree the gift of so-called clairvoyance. lam j
not able to explain how she lives. Her case is very generally
known to the physicians of New York and Brooklyn, and I
have talked with many of them about it, but I never have j
heard given a satisfactory explanation of how she can continue i
to live so long in such a condition.”
Dr. Gleorge Gr. Hopkins, of 375, Grand-avenue, said that j
the physicians of Brooklyn generally knew that Miss Fancher j
was living from year to year without partaking of enough j
nourishment to sustain life under ordinary circumstances ; j
also that with her change in body came change in mind, and j
ability to make second-sight manifestations. He had not |
seen her himself, but from many conversations with physicians |
and others who had, he did not doubt the genuineness of what j
was pretended for her. He had not heard a hint that she j
practised imposition.
HER PRESENT PHYSICAL CONDITION.
Miss Fancher’s present condition is blindness, the eyelids
closed, the pupils sightless and staring ; laxity of body save j
in her right arm, that remains rigid and doubled as above de¬
scribed ; inability to take nourishment, with no desire for it
except at long intervals, when she puts a bit of fruit or candy ]
in her mouth for a short time and then rejects it; torpidity
of the system, with sluggish.pulsation and not vigorous res¬
piration ; cheerfulness, with increasing sensitiveness to being |
made the theme of public gossip, and to receiving strangers ; 1
| enlargement of the heart, and soreness in the ribs that were
broken by the fall from a horse ; rheumatic and neuralgic
pains; frequent changes in bodily state, with tendency toward
pulmonary troubles ; power of speech and of hearing.
Miss Fancher longs to die, yet she tells her friends she is
| afraid she cannot die. “ There is nothing of me to die,” she
says. Once, after a most death-like trance, in which it
required hours of vigorous efforts to restore her, she uttered :
| * ‘ Why did you not let me alone ? I think I might have died,
had you allowed me to.”
Before the accident she was a worshipper in the Washington-
i street Baptist Church, and had there made a profession of
religious belief. To those who have questioned she has
answered that her experiences in her sickness have simply
strengthened her faith ; she believes in a material heaven,
with gates of pearl and pavements of gold. Her visions have
| ever been of the good and the pure. Asked whether she ever
| saw disagreeable persons or things, she answered that she
! shuns them. She has said that she desires to die that she
may go to heaven.
Some of her friends have seriously said : “If death is the
parting of the spirit from the body, and if Miss Mollie’s spirit
has been released from the bondage of the flesh, can she
indeed ever die ? ”
SLATE-WRITING PHENOMENA.
Mr. Epes Sargent, the American author, in the course of an article
in the Spiritual Magazine of December, 1877, said :—
Some time in October, 1876, I wrote a long article in vindication
of Slade, with the view of publishing it in some leading Boston paper.
On further consideration I withheld it, however, and resolved to wait
j till I could personally testify to something equivalent to the slate¬
writing phenomenon as manifested through Slade. I had repeatedly,
| during the last thirty years, witnessed analogous phenomena, so that
i I fully believed in the testimony in his behalf; but I wished to be
j able to say that I had myself witnessed something quite as extraordi¬
nary. That time has now come, and I ask it of your courtesy to allow
me to report my experience.
Tuesday, September 18th, 1877,1 bought a new slate enclosed in
covers at the store of Messrs. Nichols and Hall, of Broomfield-stteet,
i Boston, and proceeded to No. 46, Beach-street, where Mr. Charles E.
Watkins, of Cleveland, O., was making a brief professional stay. He
I took me upstairs into his modest sleeping-room, fronting on Beach-
| street. I have every reason to believe that he did not know who I
was. 1 had never seen him before. In a moment, however, my name
came to him in some inexplicable way (not from seeing it written in
my hat, oh ! sceptic); his manner, a little ungracious at first, wholly
changed, and we sat down alone in the room, the noonday light
streaming in at the windows. He began by disclosing to me the
names written by me, without any possible knowledge of his (there
was no watching the end of my pencil), on six slips of paper, which I
| had rolled tightly into pellets, and which were not even touched by
the medium. They were so mixed that I could not myself tell the
! name of any one of them. Here was a satisfactory proof of super-
sensual vision ; but, as I had received the same proofs through Foster
and Colchester many years ago, I will not stop to describe them further,
truly wonderful as they were.
Mr. Watkins then permitted me to take my own fresh slate, which
| had remained on the table near my left elbow all this while. He put
a crumb of slate pencil between one of the surfaces of the slate and
! the inside surface of one of the covers. He told me to hold it out at
1 arm’s length.. This I did, first satisfying myself that there was no
writing on the slate, and that he had not even touched it.
Now bear in mind that we two were alone in the room ; that there
! had been no possibility of the medium’s making the slightest mark
on the new, unused slate ; that I sat with my back to the light, which
streamed in at two uncurtained windows, the outer blinds of which
were thrown back, and Mr. Watkins sat before me, some two feet off ;
] that I was in a perfectly composed, equable state of mind, with all my
I faculties on the alert; that I was as sure the slate was the same one I
! had just brought in as I was that the head on my shoulders was the
same one I had brought in; that I was no more the imbecile victim of
“expectancy and prepossession” than I am at this moment; and con-
j sider also the medium, when I should extend my arm under the con-
| ditions here described, would be some three feet distant from the
slate, on which I absolutely knew there was as yet no writing.
Under these simple conditions, the fairest, simplest, and most con¬
vincing that could well be imagined, I held out the slate. First came
the name, “ Anna Cora Mowatt.” This name I had written on one of
the pellets. A second time I held out the slate, and there came the
words, “ My dear brother, your own Lizzie.” This name I had not
written nor spoken. A third time I held out the slate (still untouched
by the medium), and there came the words, “ My dear son, God bless
i you.—Your father, who loves you dearly, Epes Sargent.” This name
] had also been both unwritten and unspoken by me. It was my father’s
name.
| Being now convinced that the theory of some invisible chemical
1 writing on the slate, to be made suddenly visible after the sitter had
'' held it, was utterly dispelled, I took two slates belonging to the medium,
Dec. 27, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
311
asked for a wet towel, wiped them thoroughly, saw the medium lay a I
crumb of slate-pencil on one of the slates, and than, placing the other
slate on the top of it, I held the two, thus joined, out at arm’s length |
in my left hand. In a moment I heard a light sound of writing. In a
few seconds the medium said, “ Finished,” and taking one slate from j
the other, 1 saw one side filled with a message containing fifty-four |
words, and signed by the name of my deceased brother.
Now, if any of my readers can explain these phenomena, so direct, j
explicit, and unequivocal, by any theory excluding that of the operation j
of a supersensible energy or force, working intelligently on a material i
substance, I shall be pleased to be enlightened.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS. |
MEETING- OP THE COUNCIL. j j
At the last ordinary monthly meeting of the Council of the British i j
National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-street, London, 11
Mr. Alexander Calder, president, occupied the chair. The other members ]
present were Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Maltby, Mr. j
Reimers, Mr. Pearson, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Miss Houghton, Mrs. j
Edwin Ellis, and Mr. R. Pearce. j
The minutes of the last meeting having been read and confirmed, j
Three new ordinary members were elected, and Professor Zollner, of |
Leipzig, expressed his pleasure at accepting the honour of becoming an j
honorary member of the Association.
The following letter from Mr. Williams was then read:— I
61, Lamb's Conduit-street, Nov. 21st, 1878.
Dear Miss Kislingbury,—I must beg to return my card of membership*
and ask that my name be struck out of the list of those who belong to the
British National Association of Spiritualists. I perhaps should have done this
sooner, except that I desired to watch the proceedings of some who have
called themselves my friends.
I have tried to render good service to the Association, and it is with some
considerable sorrow that I return this card ; but as a gentleman I can never
belong to any Association where my word is disbelieved, and my honesty as a
medium is discredited. There are many of its members who I still respect,
and who, as well as yourself, I shall ever be pleased to welcome.
With every good wish for the success of the organisation, and to all others
who are fellow-workers in this common cause, I remain, yours very truly,
Charles E. Williams.
The Secretary of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Edwin Ellis, Mr. Dawson
Rogers, and Mr. R. Pearce voted that the resignation be accepted ; Mr. j
Pearson and Mr. Christian Reimers voted that it be not accepted. It |
was therefore accepted by a majority of three.
No report was given in by the Finance Committee, sufficient members j
of it not having met to form a quorum.
The report of the General Purposes Committee was received and j
adopted. It recommended changes in the hours during which the j
public reading-rooms should be open during 1879. The committee also
resigned, on the ground that it had finished the work for which it was
appointed.
On the motion of Mr. Rogers, seconded by Mr. Harrison, it was
unanimously reappointed, because of the useful character of the work it
took in hand.
A letter from Mr. J. J. Morse was read, after which, on the recom¬
mendation of the Soirie Committee, it was resolved to discontinue the
monthly sotrees for the present. i
Mr. Harrison moved—
That this Council is of opinion that if it does not inform the members of
the Association how each councillor has voted in divisions relating to public
questions, yet asks the members to vote for or against him at annual elections,
the members are thereby placed in a false position ; so this Council pledges
itself to adopt measures to let them know how their representatives perform
their duty.
He said that there was scarcely a town in the kingdom in which a riot
would not be raised if the Town Councils announced that they would j
cease to record and permit to be published how every member had voted
at all divisions. But the Council he was addressing had already {
declined to order all votes to be recorded, so as an inferior measure he,
in the above resolution, asked only that votes relating more to public
questions than interior management should be recorded and published.
It had been said that some of his recently proposed measures were im¬
practicable ; but he desired to state that he had attended about two
thousand meetings of organised bodies of various kinds, and that nearly j
all his recent motions, some of which had not received support even to
the extent of seconding, would merely have had the effect of checking
an inferior system, and substituting one in common use by the best |
organised public bodies everywhere.
The motion was not seconded.
Mr. Harrison next moved—
That the General Purposes Committee is hereby instructed to consider and |
to report to the next Council meeting the best method of keeping the mem- I
bers of the Association informed how each of their representatives on the
Council does his duty.
This was seconded by Mrs. Maltby.
Mr. Dawson Rogers objected to the resolution. At present the
members did not vote blindfolded at elections, as they knew pretty
well from The Spiritualist reports what the members were doing;
besides, if any member of Council called for it, the votes at divisions
were recorded.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald was in favour of votes being recorded at the
option of the Council; not that the recording all votes should be
obligatory.
Miss Houghton said that it was not necessary to publish the votes,
for the last election took place over only one person, who was in excess
of the number to be elected. Besides, they could not go to the
expense of printing a volume explaining why the votes were given.
The Chairman questioned whether the public took any interest in
the records of the votes.
Mr. Harrison replied that it was a true and common saying that a
Radical when in power was often the greatest of tyrants, and some of
the members of the Association had discovered from the recorded votes,
that those members of the Council who daily talked most about defending
the public liberties, were generally the very men who on that Board had
all along acted in the direction of restricting the public rights. He
knew that some of the members of the Association had discovered this,
and to do so they must have been reading the votes with interest. In
reply to Miss Houghton, the public did not want the explanations ; let
them have but the dry record of what each member had actually done ;
they could form their own opinions as to the value of the work. The
present system of recording only an occasional vote when a member
chanced to ask for it would leave the details of many interesting
I divisions unrecorded, and it was wrong in principle to impose one of the
j chief duties of the whole Council upon any private member of it.
The votes were then taken. For the resolution, Mr. Harrison, Mrs.
Maltby, and Mr. Reimers. Against it, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Miss
i Houghton, Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, and Mr. R. Pearce. The reso-
! lution was consequently lost by a majority of one.
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald then moved—
That the Rev. Thomas Colley, who is known to be the author of an anony¬
mous letter in T'he Medium of Nov. 1st, be invited either to withdraw or to
formulate into a distinct charge, and to substantiate what appears to be an
imputation of a disgraceful character against what Mr. Colley calls “ the
authorities of the Association,” which imputation is contained in the letter in
question.
This was carried unanimously, and the meeting broke up.
A MAN SCOURGED BY SPIRITS.
Walcher, the second Prior of Malvern, a man whose word William
of Malmesbury tells us it was irreligious to disbelieve, relates as
follows :—
Fifteen years previous to the time when he wrote, a contagious
disease had attacked and destroyed the first prior and many of the
monks. The survivors, filled with alarm, exercised themselves in
prayer and more abundant distribution of alms. In course of time,
however, their fears abating, their charity also abated. The cellarer,
in particular, publicly laughed at the late panic, exclaiming that his
stock of provisions was inadequate to the charitable consumption-—
that considering that there had been so many funerals amongst the
members, he had anticipated some reduction of expense, &c. One
evening, after the toils of the day, retiring somewhat late to rest, a re¬
markable circumstance occurred. He beheld in the chapter-house the
prior and the brethren who had died during the year sitting in the
order in which they had departed. The cellarer, affrighted, en¬
deavoured to escape, but the spirits had physical power enough to
detain him by force, and to freely inflict on him the monastic punish¬
ment of the scourge. In addition to this, the prior-spirit gave the
culprit monk good advice on the folly of seeking profit by another’s
death, seeing that all men are subject to one common fate; on the
crime of a monk grudging his pittance of pay for a single year after
his death, who had passed his whole life in the service of the Church ;
and finished by telling him that his death would take place shortly,
and by the advice to endeavour by his example to correct those whom
he had corrupted by his language.
In proof of the veracity of his story, the penitent cellarer exhibited
the recent marks of his scourging tam recentibus plagis, besides
which he shortly afterwards died, fulfilling the prediction of his early
decease.—From an old Malvern Guide-book.
Readers in the United Kingdom who receive this journal from London
by post, are again reminded that their subscriptions expire to-day, and
that 10s. lOd. for the supply during 1879 is due before next Wednesday.
The Psychological Society will hold no meeting on Thursday next,
January 2nd. On Thursday, January 16th, Professor Plumptre will
read a paper on “ The Religious and Psychological Ideas Revealed in
the Sacred Poetry of the Hebrews, Hindoos, and other Oriental Races.”
The fortnightly meetings of the British National Association of
Spiritualists will not be resumed until Monday, January 20 th, when
i j Mr. W. H. Harrison will read a paper on “ Hauntings and Apparitions.”
1 He will be glad to receive references to cases which tend to prove spirit
identity.
Dr. Robert S. Wyld, of 19, Inverleith-row, Edinburgh, writes to
us:—“ I will willingly give £50 to any London medium who can obtain
for me a single word written between closed slates, tied by myself, with
a bit of pencil betwixt; and I shall be very glad, indeed, to purchase
faith at this price.”
312
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 27, 1878.
Corraponxience.
[ Great Jreedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications camwt
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.]  
SPIRITUALISM AND SPIRITUALITY IN GLASGOW.
Sir,—A dense fog hangs over the city ; cold, miserable, and wretched
as it is, it but faintly portrays the gloom and sadness in the hearts
and homes of thousands. The numbers of the known poor are daily
increasing, the industrious artisan, the mechanic, and clerk swelling the
ranks. It is to be feared that there are thousands more, whose distress
and poverty will never be known this side of the grave.
Bad as this is, it seems but the outward and visible sign of a denser
fog in the mental and spiritual atmosphere. The fog of materialism is
made deeper still by the mists of sectarianism hanging over the minds
of men, benumbing the intellect, distorting the vision, and starving
the spirit.
The wonder is, not that there is so little known of Spiritualism, but
that there is so much known. Robert Owen, the socialist, George
Combe, the phrenologist, Professor Gregory, late of the University of
Edinburgh, and J. W. Jackson, the mesmerist, however diversified
their views, have each unconsciously aided to prepare the way for the
advent of modern Spiritualism here.
It is but a short step from the broad humanitarianism of Owen to the
ethics and moral philosophy of Spiritualism; from the facts of
mesmerism to the phenomena of Spiritualism. Other workers have,
laboured in the field ; the hardy soil of this northern clime is slowly
but surely being prepared; and Spiritualism will take root, like heather
on the adjacent mountains, a plant of sturdy if stunted growth—
healthy, hardy, if not beautiful in the gaze of the canny Scot.
Mr. J. J. Morse has just completed his yearly engagement with the
Glasgow Spiritualists’ Association. His lectures on Sunday, the 7th,
and Monday, the 8th inst., were well received, presenting, as they did,
rocks of facts, as well as flowers of eloquence.
On Friday evening, the 12th inst., a soiree was held in the Glasgow
Spiritualists’ Association Rooms, in honour of Mr. Morse. After tea
Mr. Robertson, the secretary, who occupied the chair, paid a graceful
tribute to Mr. Morse and his guides for the manner in which they had
laboured for the cause in Glasgow, in the face of the most dishearten¬
ing opposition, during the last five years. But the gathering there that
evening was an evidence that their (Mr. Morse and his guides) labours
had not been in vain. An excellent programme of songs and recitations
was admirably rendered by friends and members of the Association.
The most pleasing event of the evening was when the chairman, on
behalf of the members of the Association, presented to Mr. Morse a
handsome gold locket, with a suitable device on it, as a token of appre¬
ciation of his work and conduct by those members of the Association
in whose name it was presented. Mr. Morse (to whom the presentation
was a surprise) was much affected; he made a feeling reply to the
observations of the chairman. Then two of his controls made some
well-chosen remarks. A few short complimentary speeches were made
by Messrs. Robertson, Campbell, Birrell, and myself, and the happy
evening’s reunion was terminated by the company singing “ Auld Lang
■Syne.”
I lectured in the rooms on the 14th inst.—subject, “Is Man Im¬
mortal ? ” and made an attempt to answer the question in the affirma¬
tive, sustaining my arguments from facts culled from the realms of
physiology, pathology, natural and [artificial somnabulism, dreams,
death-bed scenes and kindred material. Mr. Walker, the venerable
vice-president of the Association, will read a paper on “ Man’s
Responsibilities ” next Sunday. J. Coates.
SPIRITUALISM AND RELIGION.
Sir,—I hope you will grant me space to make a few remarks on a
subject suggested by Mr. Stainton Moses’ magnificent paper on the
“ Intelligent Operator,” read by him at the last fortnightly meeting at
Great Russell-street. I did not venture to speak on that occasion,
partly because of the length of the proceedings and the number of other
speakers; partly because I was reluctant to say a word of dispraise, or
to strike one discordant note at that happy meeting ; and, lastly, because
the subject I am about to touch upon is of too vast an extent to be
compressed into a couple of questions, or disposed of in a few cursory
remarks.
Both Mr. Moses and Professor Cassal alluded to the “universal
instinct ” which, apart from all external manifestation, furnishes good
d priori grounds for belief in a future life, to my mind the best “ proof
presumptive ” of man’s immortality. But then Mr. Moses went on to
say that this belief in immortality constituted the “ sole code of personal
religion.” It is to this astonishing statement that I intend to demur.
Indeed, I am not sure that Mr. Stainton Moses has not hereby furnished
the key to the puzzling question, “How is it that Spiritualism, with
all its pretensions and with all its proofs, does not take the place of
religion, does not supply any real spiritual food to the hungry and thirsty
soul?”
Question after question rises in my mind the longer I contemplate.
Is the “ sole code of personal religion ” a belief in immortality, as
demonstrated by Spiritualism ? Will it save a man’s soul to know that
he lives for ever ? Or does not religion rather consist in this—that
man, knowing himself to be immortal, seeks the means whereby he shall j
purify his soul, and render himself worthy of that higher life to which j
he aspires ? The burning questions in Spiritualism are not— Shall I
renew my earthly affections, however sweet and holy, in that farther
life ? not, Shall I know my long-lost brother, the companion of my early
years, the sharer of never-to-be-forgotten influences r but—Will it teach
me anything new of the relations of my soul to God ? what has it to I
tell about the doctrines of sin and forgiveness, and many other impor- ’
j tant and vital points in man’s spiritual history and development 1 So
| far from Spiritualism inciting men to a higher self-sacrifice, to greater
j self-abnegation, to a more complete possession of their souls in awe and
j patience, to a more perfect detachment from the things of sense and of
j i matter, I see Spiritualists who believe (oh, yes ! thoroughly believe) in
11 their soul’s immortality act as though both this life and the next were
| j one great tea-garden or happy hunting-ground, in which they can disport
i i themselves endlessly, and at will, instead of a stern training school for
1! better states of existence. They say that God is not a hard taskmaster,
) j and that He wishes us to be happy, forgetting that the greatest Spirit¬
ualist who ever walked the earth has taught that “ strait is the gate,
and narrow is the way, that leadeth unto life.” They think that im¬
mortality is theirs by right, not that it has to be won by hard fighting
with the powers of this world; forgetting that spirituality, not Spirit¬
ualism, is the end and aim of our striving. Does any one tell me that
progress is the law of life ? I say, that life has another law, and that
law is death. To pass from death unto life, by which I mean from
spiritual deadness to spiritual awakening and growth, is what we seek
| and wrestle for. And how is this to be furthered ? How is our spiritual
life to be sustained, if not by worship, by contemplation of the Infinite,
by communion and union with God, in the person of His Divine and
Eternal Son? Instead of this, we see the majority of Spiritualists for¬
saking worship for “ wonder-hunting ” at seances, for trance addresses,
spirit-teachings, and communications.
Some will answer—“ If Spiritualism is not a religion, it is nothing.”
| I think its mission is best described in the words of Mr. Stainton
j Moses himself, that it is a “sledge-hammer for breaking the skulls
of materialistic scepticsalso, it is an aid to religion in enabling
] us to understand conditions and doctrines of which it gives a reflec¬
tion ; its progressive spirit spheres have an analogy with purgatorial
states, its intercourse with spirits with the Church’s communion of
| saints ; its trance conditions prefigure religious ecstasy and inspiration;
it shows to our sight a portion of that which we must still for the greater
part hold by what theologians term faith. More than this experience
has taught me not to expect from Spiritualism; and so far from en-
| couraging all persons to form spirit-circles in their own homes, I would
rather, as I have often said before, see the subject confined to a few
qualified individuals, “ pure in heart and sound in head,” who should
! “ report progress,” and give to the world whatever may appear to them
to be for its benefit.
If Spiritualism is teaching us to put spirits in the place of God; if it
is to abrogate the rule of Christ and His Apostles, that we must over¬
come the world, and the flesh, and whatever else to us and in us is
Satanic, then it is failing of its mission, it is a false prophet, a thing to
| be cast out and trodden under foot. Let us take heed to our ways, that
I we be not found fighting on the wrong side, and encouraging that very
| state of mind in ourselves which we profess to combat in others.
| The whole tone of Mr. Moses’ paper is so admirable, that I am
grieved to have to appear in the character of a dissentient to anything
therein contained, or which he may have spoken. But the words which
I have taken as my text are, to my mind, fraught with issues so tre¬
mendous, that I should deem myself unfaithful if I did not raise my
voice against them, even though it be the solitary voice of (as Mrs.
Hollock has said) “ one crying in the wilderness.”
Emily Kislingbury.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
I Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
j minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
i Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
i writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens,
I The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
|  f ;    
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London. 
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Garlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of pnenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
| Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Dec. 27, 1878
THE SPIRITUALIST
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.U.8. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s,
THE SOUL OP THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should he established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DA.YIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer''
Nature’s Divine Revelations . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia .
The Teacher. „ II. „ .
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . .
The Thinker. ,, V. „ . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .
Harbinger of Health , . . .
fiarmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence . .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . •
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
. 16 0
. 7 6
V 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
, 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... fi o
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my .Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen , 7 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind’,; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
K'anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Grigin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
hy Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale .   10 6
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 fw Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes It binding upon himself to ‘ drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,’
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description o/ Manifestation
recently produced hy Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jeneken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations In England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, P.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—^Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Klslingbui’y — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Medlumslup of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—^Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life —Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t&
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, 0. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conduct^.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnage.paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, XI 10s.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new book by
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHO GRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
. List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of //earing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation ol
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hoops, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with E. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The SpintuaM.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—^Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A usefhl book to place In public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ’’) and is one of ilia
most refined and elegaut works ever priuted in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“Gi Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given throughth«
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Rlchmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
HI.—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium
ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea,
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Pecker aft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Mis*
Treherne) and Mrs. —.
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life oj Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals.
ByEmile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVT—Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A.,
Oxon.”
XVII.—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Yon Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burxe.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spirituahsm. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doe. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation»of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIll.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV. — The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“ M.A, Oa.on.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI—The Predicdou. By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis-
lingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLH—Epigrams. By Gerald Massoy.
XLI II.—Some of tlie Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLY A Child’s Prayer.' By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office..
Mediumship I its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 88, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 27, 1878.
Now Keady. Price 2s. 6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVTEW
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY,*
OCTOBER.. "
‘ ' .4...CONTENTS:—
I—Why must I do what is right ? By St. George Stock.
II,—Astrology,'Ancient and Modem.
HI.—ilecent Investigations in Psychology. By T. P. Barkas
IV, —Immaterialism at Brussels. By J. 0. Earle.
V. —Inspiration and Symbolism. By Mrs. De Morgan,
VI.—James Hinton’s Philosophy.
. VII.—Pilgrimages) in France. No. III.—Pontigny and the
Shrine of Saint Edmund. By Bev. H. N. Grimley.
VIII.—Bohme’s Seven Days of Creation—A" Study.;,-, By A.; A.
Watts.' ^ ■ :: .i.-- I,. / ' I,' !-■:■!; j!T .-it'. ..v
IXv—MaterMlistic.Mysticism. ■■ 1 -
Hutton oh' Scott’s’ Supemaiuralism—The -EducgjtiOTi^^f » the
Feelings—Around'the WorldVith Dr, ;Peehles.^-Evpluti6n.'’
; ; ’ •E.;,W.'Allen,’ 11 ;■ Ave Mariatlahej H.O.l * .
« ' Price Cd.; postfreej l^d.j.clbth;'
' - ' ,prize. Essays. . '
THE' PROBABLE-'EPPECfS ‘.OF SPIRIT-'
UALISMiUPQN1 THE :SG.CIAL, MQBAB, | AND .BEEI-
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOGIETY. Two ^Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and-Mr. .G;:Ft'Gheeh;
These Essats won; the-First and-Seconp Gold Medals
of THEkBRiTiSH'National Association' of Spiritualists.
The /SpfHtwaMst'Newspaper Branch Of&ce, London.
REYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st.
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyrm, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSA CHISCHE STUDIED. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the .uhexpldihed phenb-
mena of psychic'life.* Edited-by Alexandre Arsakof,'.and;
contributed to by several German and .foreign menxif science,
price Is. monthly.—Loipsjb: Oswald Motze. London: The
Spiritualist Newsphpdr -Branch Office. -
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has - spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe,' until it how has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid, olijecjts sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums,withoiAbeing touched.
Mr. V^Uiam Crookes,' F,B S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser bf:.t]Je‘radiometer, and discoverer of the
new mstal thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own hoijsej ’and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. B. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zbllner, and a’great
number of intelligent professional men have dbhe thA same.'
i HOW TO FQBM SPIRIT CIEOLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the.iphpnomefia of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their Own homes, with no'Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.'
The assertions Of a few newspapers, conjurers, and ’men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
are not), thpy are. so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them-
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are hot real, by trying simple home experiments
which'cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities. |
One* or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every household, and
about one nevv circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—;
1. Let arrangements be made that there ’shall be no in- J
terruption for one hour during the sitting Of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do.
■ 3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
,6. The. first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds ar e'produced freely j
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell .the table
that three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one -means ifNp,” and
two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us but a ‘
message ? ’’ Should three signals be given, set to Work on the
plan proposed, and from this time' an intelligent system of
communication is established- • " r
7. Possibly symptoms .of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as .judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the' other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
" Just Published,
I Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
:’Yt h:e l a z y l ay s
tO ( \AND;-PROSE, IMAGININ GS
BY WILLIAM H. hIrRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and; Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
' Consents. |
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—i. The Castle.—6. The
Lay of .the .Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. HoW Hadji
Al'Shacabac'was Photographed. (Alerter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Lbanf.toJ'Ali -Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of-> Howling’Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed-Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market.Gardener.—ll; “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. .Our Raven.
—13.>Materjalistic' Religion.—13. The Lay of .’the Photographer.—
lOHowfto .Double the Utility of the Printing .Press.—15. The
Song offthe Motherin-Law.—16. Wirbel-beuiegurig.—17.\“ Poor.Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
' ZOJ’A Lhve' Song.—21! A Vision.—22. •“ Under the Limes.’—23. The
AugeboDSilence.'
Part 2.—Die Wobblejaw Ballads; by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
' 24. The Public'Analyst]—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. ‘The Rifle-Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning. Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a,column long, says:—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, likeMr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise ohall.who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his niuse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the c'oritrAry,'
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity. . . is The unfortunate .Hadji’s narrative
of.his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
'one of'the funniest things that nas been published for years. ...
The bo.ok’contains quite enoughto ensure it a welcome from
which its’.tastSuVappearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post s&js of The W0oblejaw Ballads:—“No"one can help laughing
at.them,’’ aud it'says that the rhymes are pitched in “something
like the same' key.^. as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “with an appreciably successful result.”
• From The Court Journal.
'.“AH are of. marked ability... . Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty; showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift'.’’ * : •• ■ . .
From The Graphic.; ■ a
“Thbse who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lay's and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William*H: Harrison (38; Great
Russeil-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to he sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Ciub. spme ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to • plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mindlike Ids can make jokes with success:,.. To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy LaysP
From The Bookseller.
An odd blit most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine; rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
1 From Nature.
Scientific.meri and matters.are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the' imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that, our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, so.me of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, hut
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine,
How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done... .Bound in a’cdver o’f somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
Mr. W. JI. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mOod.with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“ In Mr. W.’H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, With a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book:.. ‘ How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to he expected
that his subjects should bear some trace Of tikis 'peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
.... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover... . If our readers' wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving Object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
; William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear-
■ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”...
' From The Western Daily Press (Bristol),
i A volume from the versatile pen of Mr.-W. H. Harrison, a
, well-known contributor to the London and provincial press; arid
' editor of The Spiritualist:. .. Many of the-humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The LgypfAhe Photographer
The Lay of. fhe.Mdcebearers, and some of The. nbbblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham liimself. .Some, of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make therii accept¬
able to most readers.”
From the daily Northern'Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our hot too ex¬
tensive comic literature. . The story is ohe of,which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is iritensely humorous... ,
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”,
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News. 1
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in.
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \N.B. An
irate member, of the To,wn Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor ana Corporation of, Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,’’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.\ .. : “ It contains spme. very choice poems
and prose essays, is hound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover. *;
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
; Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to Hia Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. ' Copies may also be had hound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
. . , , CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously .in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain. •
CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in-Yarious Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulnesa of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will: and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.-
CHAPTER. IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near. Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard, to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted-Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Spontar
neons Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions m
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—^Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER.VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s JExtatics—Visions of the S liritual
World..
CHAPTER.VlII: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of ITirenoJogy—■
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Pheriomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on lt. . . ar —<
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
arid is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism-Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed iip by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcrait—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIIP:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the. Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Oases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.'
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed, for the Proprietor by :Beveridge & Co., at the.
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St, Andrew-ahove-Bar and St. George •
the Martyr, Lend m. and published by E. W Allen, Aye
Maria-lane, Londc fl,E.O, >
