ReGisteeed as a Newspaper.
otf ^^YdSo^oG^idS^ ^di^Kd^.
#lb.egf It^bo^papr OT&fe toxilj Spnfxmlism m (&xmi §rikm,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosquc 246. Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia.
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LltiGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 326.—(Yol. XIII.—No. 21.) LONDON: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontents.
The Nomenclature of Psychology ... :.    241
Experiences in the Home Circle. By Mrs, Fitz-Gerald ... 241
Dr. Forbes Winslow 245
A Medium Floating in the Air in the Light. By Berks T.
Hutchinson 246
A Materialisation Stance without the use of a Cabinet ... 246
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—Home
Experiences in Spiritualism   246
The Psychological Society 247
A Field for Legal Ability Inside Spiritualism ...  247
Correspondence : — Cabinet and Council — Soul-Ideas
among the Ancient Egyptians—Dark Circle Manifesta¬
tions produced in the Light—What are the Comforts
of Spiritualism?—Psychology—Healing Mediumship 248
Clairvoyance used to Detect a Murderer 250
Poetry:—The Poacher's Widow  ... 252
Answers to Correspondents 252
Paragraphs:—Marriage of Miss Simmons, 241; A Hill-
head Ghost, 241; Mind and Matter, 245; Sunday Ser¬
vices, 245 ; Lecky on “ Religion,” 245 ; The Spiritual
Body, 247; Character Read from Handwriting 247 ;
Marriages in Heaven    252
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
f'PHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the "Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associar
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness ;■ His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey: Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
xnan (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon, M.B. (India) ;
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ol
the •'Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of" Unorthodox London”: Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling,
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Rickardson,‘M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
Now Ready. Price 2s. 6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY.
October.
CONTENTS :—
. I.—Why must I do what is right ? By St. George Stock.
II.—Astrology, Ancient and Modem.
III. —Recent Investigations in Psychology. By T. P. Barkas.
IV. —Immaterialism at Brussels. By J. O. Earle.
V.—Inspiration and Symbolism. By Mrs. De Morgan.
VI.—James Hinton’s Philosophy.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. No. HI.—Pontigny and the
Shrine of Saint Edmund. By Rev. H. N. Grimley.
VIII.—Bdhme’s Seven Days of Creation—A Study. By A. A.
Watts.
IX.—Materialistic Mysticism.
Hutton on Scott’s Supematuralism—The Education of the
Feelings—Around the World with Dr. Peebles—Evolution.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O. 
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Wobum Street.
CALENDAR FOR NOVEMBER.
Monday, 4th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m. Paper by Mr. J. Bonwick, F.R.G.S.
Wednesday, 6th.—Conversazione at 7 p.m, Music. Re¬
freshments, and exhibition of Research
Committee’s scientific apparatus.
Friday, 8th.—Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Tuesday, V2th.—Finance Committee Meeting, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 15th.—Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 18th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m. Paper by Mrs. Fitzgerald—“Ex¬
periences in the Home Circle.”
Thursday, 21st.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Soirde Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 22nd.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Monday, 25th —Special Council Meeting, at 6 p.m.
Tuesday, 26fft.—General Purposes Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Seance Committee, at 6 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—  H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
British museum lectures.—a
Course of Three Lectures (with the permission of the
authorities) will be given by C. Carter Blake, Doct. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy and Zoology, Westminster
Hospital, during the Christmas week. Hours 81 to 1. Tickets
5s. each. Address C. Carter Blake, care of 38, Great Russell-
street, W.O.
J ANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORT-
-J LAND-STREET, W.
The Committee have the pleasure of announcing a CONCERT
in aid of the Mission to Friendless and Fallen Women, on
Tuesday Evening, November 26th, 1878.
The following distinguished Artistes have kindly promised
their valuable assistance: Madame Leibhart, Madame Schnee-
gans, Mrs. Gregory, Mrs. Georgina Weldon, Miss Terry, Miss
Elene Webster, Signor Federici, Mr. E. A. Tietkens, Mr. A.
Oritchett, Mr. W. Gregory. Violin: Signor Scuderi. Con¬
ductors : Signor Bucalossi, Signor Corani.
The Piano to be used on this occasion will be the NEW
MELO PIANO, by Kirkman.
Doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8 precisely. Sofa Stalls,
10s. 6d.; Stalls, 5s.; Unreserved Seats, 3s.; Balcony, 2s.
Tickets may be obtained at the Hall and at Mrs. MALTBY’S,
61, Gower-street, W.O. . • 
TADBROKE HALL, LADBROKE
1 GROVE ROAD, NOTTING HILL, W. (Not Netting
Hill Gate).
A SERIES OF S UNDAY SERVICES for the dissemination
of the Gospel of Spiritual Truth are in course of delivery in
the above Hall, by W. H. LAMBELLE, who will deliver a
course of addresses on the “ ORIGIN OF RELIGIOUS RITES
AND CEREMONIES.”
Doors open at 6.30 and closed at 7 promptly, to prevent
interruption during the progress of the Services.
MR. and MISS DIETZ, having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (“One of
the most successful series ever known in London ”), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—Coal-
brookdale, October 29; Glasgow (City Hall), November 2;
Deal, November 19; Maidstone, November 20; Perry Barr,
December 3; New Swindon, January 8, 1879. Favourable
terms arranged with Institutes or with Progressive Societies,
en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture on
“ American Humour,” illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors.
TDIRKBECK BANK. — Established 1851.—
.i P 29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application,
FRANCIS’RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W,
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
 Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Nov. 4.—Mr. Bonwiek, F.R.G.S., “ Soul Ideas amongst the
Ancient Egyptians.”
Nov. 18.—Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, “ Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. H
Dec. 2.—Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., “ Spiritualism in
Eastern Lands.”
Dec. 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ The intelligent Operator
at the other end of the Line.”
J an. 6.—Baroness von Vay, “ Visions in Vessels of Water.”
Jan. 20.—Mr. W. H. Harrison, “ Hauntings.’’
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Dr. Carter Blake, “ On the Nerve Ether.”
March 3.—Dr. Wyld. “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mrs. Ellis, “Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2.”
April 7.—Dr. Bloede, “ Psychometry.”
April 21.—Mr. C. C. Massey. “ On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May 5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Mos’es, M.A., “ Review of the Session.”
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and I). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
LEAYES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Autho-, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
IMPOSSIBILITIES MADE PROBABLE.
Consisting of three propositions, viz.:—1. Vitality makes
Matter. 2. Soul is Omnipotent. 3. A Persistent Life Natural
to Man. By J. M. London: Charles Watts, 84, Fleet-street,
E.O. Price 6d
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINT ANI & CO.
Show Rooms:—3, Lud gate Circus Buildings, London, E.O.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, <&c., <fcc.
post free, seven stamps.
LADY SPIRITUALIST would be happy to
meet with another to share her superior residence, andl
join her in Spiritualistic investigations.' A., 2, Scarsdale"
Villas, Kensington, S,, London.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST
Nov. 22, 1878,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square. South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1. Bemard-villas, TJnper Norwood.
Fltz-Oerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G-. M.s.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Bilxton,
S.W.
Greeory, Mrs. Makdou«aU,21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Honvwood Mrs.. 32, Warwlck-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C , Barrister-at-Law, Haccourt-bulldlngs, Temple,
London, E.C.
Boyers, E. Dawson, Kose-vllla, Church-end. Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Temnleman.M.D.,Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
read, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-plaee, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belner.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett,^ , The Firs, Seacroft. Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett. Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill. '■
BInney, F A.. 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Bonwlck, J., F.R.G.S.
Chapman, John. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Collin, W. H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, SE,
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 3, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H , 7. Obersteln-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 39, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fltton. R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 8. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinninsr, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 88, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton. Miss, 20. Delamere-orescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Ishsm, Sir Charles. Barf, Lain port-hall-, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 84. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 81, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton. M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, 'Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W„ 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 13, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 8, Blandford-square, N.W.
Relrrers, Christian, 47, Mornington-road, Regent’s-park.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford.
Theobald, Morell. 62, Granville-park, Blackheatb, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M.. 82, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Trcdwen. R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner ,J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington."
Walhouse, M, J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood. Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wlthall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
(J. W. Gray, Esq, G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisllngbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzl, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S^A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York. U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimllle. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
•James Mylne, Esq., Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Brltten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Gennany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris. ^
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child. Esq., M.D., 684, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourleres, St. Maur les Fosses, pris Paris.
G. L. Ditson, £sq„ M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. j. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S-A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de TEurope,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre.Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 187, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelies.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test,Esq.,M.D.,Union Springs,CayugaCo.,NewYork,U.S.A.
Comte Le ae Bullet, Hotel ae TAthenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 80, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epvjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damlani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Cliiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 78, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 58, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Procbaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 58, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Socledad Esplritista Espanola, Cervantes 84, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El visconde de Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexlcana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
" Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that trhe love may be found,
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 8s. 6d. London, W.O. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part L
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—H. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda,—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part IL
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIIL Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore.—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth;
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.O.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr.Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. O'MERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St Honor5,
Paris.
T7* W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &o., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
Jubilee-street, Oommercial-road, London, E.
45
De¬
veloping Circle every Friday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private seances attended. Applioation
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from Ip.m
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
THE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS. M. G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CIURATIVE MESMERISM AND CLAIR-
V VOYANCE.—Professor Adolphe Didier (33 years estab¬
lished) attends Patients and may be consulted at his residence
from 2 to 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
Consultations by letter.
MESMERIC HEALER.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Olairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vemon-place, Blooma-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5.
IV/rR. HOWARD COTTON, Painting Me-
-IVJL dium, desires employment for architectural or ether
drawings. Care of Pearce, stationer, Coleherne-terraoe,
Redcliffe-square, Brompton.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO in
ITALIA—Hi vista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete.
Published on the 15ih of every month, at Turin, Tip,
Baglione, vifi. Bogino, No. 23.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE OBOWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
Brighton.—miss wood, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. Terms on ap
plication.  ,• . - ■ 
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3 per week
each; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy ono
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Cos-
sonnerie, Paris.
J[ xi xJ ^ mb ^i|iij$ xS ^pijjtiu^m*
Ko. 326.—Volujvie Thirteen; Kumber Twejmty-Oj^e.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22nd, 1878.
THE NOMENCLATURE OF PSYCHOLOGY. | |
Mr. Serjeant Cox desires to change the name of the m
Psychological Society to “ The Pneumatological Society,” \\ j
because the former title has been adopted by a number of m
little Spiritualistic societies all over the country. These i|
little societies conduct, as a rule, no scientific research, and i j
spend much of their time in promulgating Spiritualism by jj |
means of trance mediumship. Mr. Munton, the secretary ju
to the Psychological Society, said that the point was of jj
more than theoretical importance, for some persons had j|
declined to join the Psychological Society because of its j(
present name. jj
Outside every organisation a penumbral region exists, jj
composed of people partially alien to its main object; the jc
line of demarcation between those inside and those outside j j j
the pale is never a sharp one, or the Association would j j
progress with too much friction. If the name of the j j
Society should be changed, the same or another ring of j j
nondescript people will exist just outside its limits, who j j
will find good reasons for not joining ; one perhaps will be j j
that “Pneumatological Society” means “Society of ij
Spiritualists.” Thus it does not do to be too thin-skinned j
about what “ people say.” The honorary secretary should ; j
turn round upon the talkative people who are criticising j j
his society, and who are so weak-kneed that they are j j
afraid of a name, by asking them what scientific i j
work they help on anywhere. As a rule, these j j
garrulous people do nothing but criticise those who execute j j
useful work ; they are no good in their day and generation j j •
except to serve as “ padding ” between conflicting opinions; j j
they are the hay and straw placed between the more valuable j j
articles contained in the social box. Their names will make j (j
no mark in the pages of history, for the simple reason that | j
they are of littlegood to the world, but sometimes have the use j j i
of powers which their immediate successors employ for a j j
better purpose; consequently they have many friends who j j
are anxious for their departure to the realms above, or below, j j
as the case may be. I
If Mr. Serjeant Cox calls his society “ The Pneumatolo- j j
gical Society,” all the new little mushroom Spiritualistic jjj
societies will admire his example so much that they will j j
adopt the word “ pneumatological” too. Why do not more I j
of these societies call themselves u Spiritual Evidence jj
Societies ? ” j j
Mb. G. 0. Jo ad is in Nice, and Mr. Fabyan Dawe has left London i I
for the South of France and Egypt. j j!
Marriage of Miss Simmons.—The Chicago Tribune of October 15th jj (j
contains the following :—“ McLenahan—Simmons—October 14, at the j j j
residence of the bride’s sister, Mrs. George W. Dickinson, No. 1,582, j j j
Indiana-avenue, by the Rev. A. E. Kittredge, Milton B. McLenahan, | j
of Chicago, and E. Maie Simmons, of New York City. New York City I j j
and Freeport (111.) papers please copy.” I (j
A Hillhead Ghost.—Recently the inhabitants of Kinning Park j j i
had their peace of mind disturbed by a rumour which gained currency j (j
that a ghost was to be heard nightly walking through an unoccupied j | i
house; and it was not until the constables of the burgh had remained j \ j
on the premises several nights in succession that the residents in the j (j
locality were convinced that a “ departed ” spirit had not returned and j j j
taken possession of the house. The scare seems to be going the round of In
the burghs, as one of the houses in Hillhead is now said to be haunted, j
A lady residing in Hillhead, and a young woman who assists her at j j J
domestic work, affirm most positively that they distinctly heard, about {i
7 p.m. on Tuesday night, the noise of someone pacing the floor of the j (i
house above that occupied by them. The noise was heard in several i j j
rooms, and continued for some time; and, strange to say, the house has j (j
been unoccupied for the past seven weeks. When the noises were heard j j j
an inspection was made, but the door was found shut, and all was dark. I j j
The parties concerned deny emphatically any belief in the supernatural, i \ j
and most positively assert that they heard the noise as of persons 11 j
walking about the apartments of the unoccupied house.—.Glftsyow < \ j
Evening News. * 1'
EXPERIENCES IN THE HOME CIRCLE.
BY MRS. FITZGERALD.
In these days when Spiritualism is going through scathing
trials, when grave accusations are sullying the once fair fame
of our most trusted mediums, it becomes the duty of all those
who can lend a helping hand to keep the underlying, and
glorious truths pure and untarnished, to lay aside some of
the reticence which has hitherto restrained them, and give
such testimony of spirit sympathy and guardianship as they
have experienced and tested in their own homes, through
all changes and trials for a period of years.
I propose giving this evening some experiences of this
nature with mediums belonging to, or found amongst, our
own family and friends; and also some with professional
mediums in my own house, and in that of my son Mr. Des¬
mond FitzGerald, whose name is known as a scientific and
searching investigator. My first introduction to Spiritualism
commenced at the time of the first visit of the well-known
medium, Mrs. Hayden, to this country nearly thirty years
ago. I was invited to meet her at a party given by a friend
in Wimpole-street, London. Having made a pre-engagement
for that evening, which I could not avoid, I arrived late,
after what appeared an extraordinary scene, of which they
were all talking with great animation. My look of blank
disappointment was noticed, and Mrs. Hayden, whom I then
met for the first time, came most kindly forward, expressed
her regrets, and suggested that I should sit at a small table
by myself apart from the others, and she would ask the
spirits if they would communicate with me. All this ap¬
peared so new and surprising, I scarcely understood what she
was talking about, or what I had to expect. She placed before
me a printed alphabet, a pencil, and a piece of paper. Whilst
she was in the act of doing this, I felt extraordinary rap-
pings all over the table, the vibrations from which I could
feel on the sole of my foot as it rested against the table’s
leg. She then directed me to note down each letter at which
I heard a distinct rap, and with this short explanation she
left me to myself. I pointed as desired—a. distinct rap came
at the letter E—others followed, and a name that I could not
fail to recognise was spelt out. The date of death was
given, which I had not before known, and a message added
which brought back to my memory the almost last dying
words of an old friend—namely, “ I shall watch over you.”
And then the recollection of the whole scene was brought
vividly before me. I confess I was startled and somewhat
awed.
I carried the paper upon which all this was written, at the
dictation of my spirit friend, to his former legal adviser, and
was assured by him that the dates, &c., were perfectly correct.
They could not have been in my mind, because I was not
aware of them. I am obliged to introduce this preamble,
which must seem a very rudimentary affair to those advanced
Spiritualists present; but I am compelled to do so, to prove
how faithfully that promise, long forgotten by me, has been
kept—namely, “ I shall watch over you.”
Whispered to me on a bed of prolonged suffering in a fatal
illness, when I was sent for at his request to take leave of
him, recalled to my mind after many years at that little,
solitary table, amidst the hum of a roomful of strangers,
renewed and renewed again up to the present time, it has
indeed made itself felt as a reality. Whenever I have sat in
public or in private seances, I have been warned and guarded
from strange and evil influences, and those words have often
come to cheer and encourage me when I have flagged, or felt
disheartened and depressed.
With this commencement I began to look into the pheno¬
mena of Mesmerism, Clairvoyance, and Spiritualism, under
the auspices of Drs. Elliotson, Ashburner, and the well-
242
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 22, 1878.
known mesmerist, Mr. Henry S. Thompson, of York. I j
should fill many papers were I to describe the wonders I I
witnessed with these gentlemen—the entranced sensitives, |
the crystal seers, and experiments in phreno-mesmerism, and |
the like. Beginning at the A B 0, I plodded upwards, the j
only true road (for believe me there is no royal road) by |
which we can arrive at a thorough belief in the reality of j
spirit communion.
From mesmerism and clairvoyance as stepping stones, I
turned my attention to Spiritualism, so-called. My spirit
friend to whom I have alluded was ever near me. He
arranged with me a private sign for a “ test,” to secure me
from wandering or intruding spirits. There is great danger
in being misled by these, and I take this opportunity of j
warning some of you. They sometimes come for sympathy
—sometimes, and oftener, for mischief. We cannot be too i
guarded.
I think I must not omit an episode which deepened my
conviction of the reality of my spirit friend’s guardian¬
ship. It was suggested at a family circle to ask him, as a
i( test,” to describe the place at which he had passed away.
To my dismay, he gave an account very wide indeed of the
mark. My son was equally disappointed and surprised. We
questioned the spirit again and again, persuading him, or
rather trying to persuade him, that he must be mistaken.
He stuck to his point, however, assuring us that he had not
died at the Albany, where I and my son had taken leave of
him on what I believed to be his dying bed. You all know
what pain it is to distrust one you have long believed in: it
was anguish to me !
A few years afterwards a gentleman, whom I had never
seen before, called upon me, and introduced himself as being
an investigator of Spiritualism. In those days it was a much
more tabooed subject than it is at present, and if we valued
the good opinion of our friends as to our sanity, the very
term was strictly avoided. I would never, however, allow
these considerations to influence me, and so we entered
freely into conversation. I told him what I have just
narrated. Strangely enough he happened to have been an
old friend of my, until now, trusted guardian. I cannot
describe my satisfaction when I was informed by him that
W. E. (we shall call him) had been removed from the close
atmosphere of his chambers in London by his physician, as j
a last hope that an operation might be undertaken in a purer j
air, which might possibly save his life. The patient was j
removed, the operation performed, and he died under it.
The spirit was right after all, and, but for this accident, we j
might have cruelly distrusted him ever after.
With my trusty guide, I sought out mediums wherever |
they were to be found. A Mrs. Barnes—a lady who was
often with Lord Lytton whilst he was writing his Strange
Story—became a friend of mine. She was a medium for !
rapping and writing, and through her I obtained messages I
from those I had lost; and so energetically were some of i
them given, that the pencil has been shivered under our j
hands to impress, I suppose, certain injunctions they wished
attended to with regard to those on this side. I accidentally
discovered a wonderful sensitive in a little workwoman,
Ellen Dawson. She married, however, and I lost sight of
her. By two or three passes of my hand I could induce in
her mesmeric sleep. When entranced her manner imme¬
diately changed from one of marked respect to that of great
familiarity. I could send her clairvoyantly to any friends I
wished to hear about, and she gave me tidings of them I
which were, in many cases, afterwards confirmed. She |
emphatically warned me of a friend whom I had implicitly j
trusted, and this warning was verified years afterwards, J
when I discovered a series of acts of systematic treachery.
With two passes of my hand—sometimes with will power j
alone—I could close the eyes of a very near and dear rela- j
tive, and this without establishing the mesmeric sleep, and j
she could not open them until I demesmerised them. This i
experiment was not for the purpose of mere amusement, but J
as treatment for brow-ague. A sceptical friend once
coming in unexpectedly, and finding the eyes firmly closed,
laughed at it, as a trick or a joke. He lighted some paper,
and before I could prevent him flared it in her face. The
eyelashes and eyebrows were scorched, but the eyes remained
closed.
In a deep mesmeric sleep induced in this same patient, I
was present and assisted at a painful operation for carbuncle,
and a sweet smile played upon her lips during the whole of
the operation. She was unconsciously put into the sleep,
and it was amusing to witness her surprise on being
awakened at finding the arm bandaged.
In 1863 I went abroad. I took with me an indicator—a
planchette, in fact—with a pencil at the point, which indi¬
cated certain letters from an alphabet. With this little
instrument I could get messages, and even through it obtain
the contents of folded pellets. I will give one amongst
many which took place at Home. A Mr. Parish, who with
his wife and son were residing there, discovered from a
conversation we had that I was a Spiritualist. He told me
that his son believed in nothing, and that it would be the
greatest boon if I could convince him that there was such a
j thing as spirit communion. He proposed a aiancey to
which I agreed, although it was rather a dangerous experi¬
ment at that time in Rome, as Mr. D. D. Hume had only
lately been obliged to leave that city in consequence of his
name being associated with Spiritualism. The stance was
to take place at their own Palazzo, near the Pincio. Only
four persons were present, besides the son. I had known
nothing whatever of these people a week previously. The
son’s face bore rather a sarcastic expression when intro¬
duced to me, and he seemed amused at the sight of
the Hi Indicator.” Walking to the farthest end of the
room, he folded tightly into a pellet a small piece of paper
upon which he had written something unseen by anyone.
He approached the table and said in a scoffing way, il If you
can tell me the contents of that paper I shall believe there
is something in it.” I thought privately to myself, “ I shall
be very clever indeed if I do tell him what is inside that
paper, for I never felt more antagonism.” Notwithstanding,
the little indicator commenced. It drew my hand up to the
pellet—veered about it in the most peculiar fashion—came
back again, and then made a fresh start. After performing
this twice or thrice, it settled at the letter 0. <e Char ” was
spelt out, and as that is the commencement of my Christian
name, I began to suspect that the advice would be “ Don’t
go on with this ”—not at all, the name Charlotte was given,
followed by that of Boucher. With some hesitation I showed
the result. The young man looked ; well, I can’t say
how he looked. He had rather a disagreeable and disappointed
expression as he opened his paper and placed it before us
with the two words “ Charlotte Boucher ” written thereon.
He left the room and we chatted about all that was taking
place at that time—the new dogmas of Pius the IX., Cardinal
Antonelli, &c. The young man reappeared with a more
tightly screwed up pellet in his hand, and a look of triumph
on his face. H Then,” said he, u you might have read my
mother’s thoughts in the other, as she knew I was attached
to that girl, but I am quite sure no one knows anything
about this one.” A fear came over me. It is a bold thing to
try again when you have just made a good hit, but I did not
lose heart, and so we tried again. Every little manoeuvre was
repeated as before, when lo ! the letters 0 H A were
pointed at. Could it be a trick of his to try to catch me,
and he had written the same name over again ? No;
Chandos Pole was spelt out by the indicator, and the pellet
nearly dropped frbm the young man’s hand as he tremblingly
opened it, and revealed the words Chandos Pole. I could
give you other instances, but I have much more to say.
Many years ago we were spiritually informed that we
need not seek for mediums as we possessed them in our own
family, and that they only required developing. Those
indicated were the very reverse of the individuals we should
have selected, especially my son’s wife, whose mediumship is
very valuable indeed to us now; A sceptic herself at the time,
she laughed at the very idea, but the truth was forced upon
her, incredulous as she was. She has since confessed to me
that she believed I did alt the tilting and rapping myself—
involuntarily of course.
All kinds of mediumship, except speaking and writing,
are necessarily slow in the process of communicating thought,
for the reason that they convey it either by symbols or by spell¬
ing out words and sentences letter by letter. Long practice,
has now, however, enabled us to get these messages quickly
* enough. Should a mistake be made by us in a word, or
Nov. 22, 1878.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
243
even a letter, the communicating spirit will not allow us to j j
go on, or pass it over. It must all be clear and distinct, and | j j
the peculiar idiosyncrasies of those communicating are still | j
adhered to. My guardian spirit has now become the pre- m
siding guardian of our whole band, and great order is | I
observed amongst them. Two alone can sit and get com- 11 j
munications for all, when the family circle is separated, m
We never admit a stranger without first seeking and obtain- | j
ing permission, but we very rarely do so; in fact, we have j (!
given it up, as the tests of identity are to be kept quite j i
secret. The raps or tiltings sometimes commence at once ; j j
sometimes after sitting long and patiently. The name of j i
each spirit wishing to communicate is distinctly given, |
invariably with that of the guardian. These are transcribed i j
at once into a book by my son or myself: we have now j !
some volumes of them. I j
The messages are unmistakably stamped with the charac- j j
teristics of the communicators. The man of letters and the i !
scientist are the man of letters and the scientist still: the j
father who communicates with the daughter is the loving father j
still, giving hope and counsel to his child on this side, and j
adding test after test, leaving nothing undone to convince I
her that he is not dead, but living and watching over her. |
The son is the affectionate, loving boy still, clinging to the j
mother who mourns him with an undying love, saying to j
her, “ Grieve not for me; you would not wish me back j
again if you could see me in my spirit home.” The loving j
daughter, lost and mourned, comes to the lonely mother I
with gentle touches and sweet messages of hope and j
comfort, taking flowers from the mother’s bosom, and |
showing herself afterwards both on the photographic j
plate and in natural form with the flowers she had j
taken; or nestling in the well-remembered attitude of j
affection at the mother’s knee. The desire to show them- |
selves seems to become intense; they appoint days and |
hours ; they provide conditions ; they beg of us to sit in the |
meantime that they may accumulate power, and when the j
day arrives they are true to their tryst! They sometimes !
come in spirit drapery, sometimes with some little peculiarity j
of dress, recognised by us at once; always some little test j j
of identity. Perhaps one of our most remarkable spirit j
photographs was one long promised from a father to a | J
daughter. She had held back her belief for months, re- j
quiring test after test. Finally she went to the photographer j
with a mental test. The spirit of the father came as j
appointed ; the mentally desired test was given, namely, a j
peculiarly formed velvet cap, worn in the last days on j
this earth. A copy of this spirit photograph, exact in every j
feature, I handed at the time to my friend, and our valuable j j
co-worker, Mr. Stainton-Moses. I may add that I went j
alone with this lady, was quite ignorant of her mental test, I
and prepared, fixed, and developed the photograph myself on j
a glass I had previously marked with a diamond. There j
was no photograph nor any likeness that I know of extant j
of this spirit when in earth life. My mother appeared on I
the photographic plate, with many details of dress and head- j
dress, with her hand raised and finger pointing towards me. j
I regret that I am not permitted to give the names of those j
who have obtained spirit photographs in my presence.
We have been in the habit of keeping minutes of each j
sitting, and afterwards comparing them with previous j
records, and it is deeply interesting to note with what j
seriousness, with what perseverance, and with what intelli- |
gence these, our unseen ones, have guarded our welfare even |
in this world, at the same time impressing on us the highest I
teachings of our Master. They tell us that selfishness and |
want of charity are the clogs which most retard our upward !
flight, forcing upon us the injunctions of the Great Teacher, |
namely, purity of life, and the love of God before all things, j
They tell us that every day bears its own individual record j
upon the spirit world, and bid us keep this thought in mind, j
to help and guard us in our earth life. j
Can we conceive a higher privilege than that of being per- j
mitted by the Father of All to hold guardianship over those j
we have loved and left on earth, refining and elevating them j
in the blessed hope of a meeting for all eternity ? So anxious !
was a spirit father to commune with his daughter when she |
Was in deep suffering, mentally and bodily, and without a j
medium near her, that he came to a lodging I had taken at
Brighton, partly for my own, partly for our medium’s health,
that whilst we were sitting together over a bright fire, with
three jets of gas burning, the rappings round and about
us were so loud, we were afraid that they might be heard by
the people of the house, and we might be turned out as
uncanny lodgers. The name and the message however were
both given, and an appointment made with us, for every
following evening, after the landlady had retired to rest in
the upper part of the house. These appointments were rigidly
kept the whole time our medium was with me.
In our own circle vapoury forms appear around us; we are
quite sensible of their presence. A materialised hand has
pulled my dress, and taken hold of the hand of our medium,
whilst we have been sitting quite alone, with my son at a
distance taking notes. When our spirit friends desire more
power than we can get amongst ourselves, we have been
induced to sit with a powerful professional medium; with
this help we have obtained the spirit form in perfection; the
very smile has been recognised. Atone sitting the light from
a partly formed spirit face was quite dazzling—the drapery
swept over our heads. Low tones of exquisite whistling, in
the case of a lost son, have been added to these manifesta¬
tions as a u test,” and we have detected the very cadence we
all so well remembered in his earth life.
When my mind turns back to the many bright and
pleasant evenings we have passed with a trusted and valued
medium, I find it difficult to restrain the grief I feel at the
painful accounts of exposures which have been made public
of late. Of all the illogical conclusions, however, there
cannot be a greater than that at which some have arrived,
namely, that a medium being a trickster is no medium at
all! On the contrary, I hold the temptation to be the
greater with the more powerful mediums, for the pull on
life-power, day after day and evening after evening, could
never be supported but at the expense of life. See, for
instance, the case of Dr. Monck. My old friend, Monsieur
de Veh, who is truthfulness itself, declared to me on oath
that he saw a vapoury cloud rise from between the feet of
Dr. Monck, who was standing within a yard of him. This
vapour formed itself by degrees into the similitude of a
beautiful girl. Monsieur de Yeh took her hand, which, he
said, felt warm, but higher up the arm was icy cold. The
gas lights were full on, and a fire smouldering. This form,
which he described as full of life, shivered as the expiring
fire gave out a flickering flame. Dr. Monck tried to extin¬
guish the fire, and whilst he was doing so, this form rested
gracefully on the elbow watching him. Dr. Monck then
resumed his former position, close to Monsieur de Yeh, and
the form appeared to be absorbed into Dr. Monck whilst
Monsieur de Yeh was watching it. He next saw the tall and
stately figure of a man clad from head to foot in Oriental
costume gradually form itself close to Dr. Monck. This
figure walked about the room. Monsieur de Yeh made it a
salaam, which was gracefully returned. There were no words
spoken, but this figure called the attention of Monsieur de
Yeh to what he was about to do, and he saw it take up the
large musical box (weighing five or six and twenty pounds)
by the lid, between his thumb and finger, and hold it
suspended at arm’s length. This figure was afterwards
absorbed, like the other, into Dr. Monck. What is the con¬
sequence ? Dr. Monck is now lying in shattered health on a
bed of sickness, with his power for the time quite exhausted.
These true materialisations cannot be repeated and repeated
with impunity: hence at times the much-to-be-regretted
recourse to simulation. Shocked as we all must feel at such
deceptions, where our confidence has been implicitly reposed,
I cannot but bear testimony to the powerful and genuine
mediumship of Mr. Williams at our own private circles, and
the alacrity with which he has submitted to, and even
insisted on, the most stringent tests. At one stance he was
tied in nautical knots by a gentleman who prided himself
upon this accomplishment, and we afterwards found him
with every fastening, which had been previously sealed, cut
with scissors, except the bonds which securely bound his
hands behind him. At another time, my son holding one of
his hands and myself the other, we have been raised to our
feet, and he has ascended to the ceiling, which we distinctly
heard him strike against, and was found on his descent
sitting entranced upon a chair on the top of a small table;
244
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 22, 1878.
with scarcely room for it to rest upon. At another private
sitting at my own house, the spirit John King has drawn
aside the curtains which formed the cabinet, first on one side, j
and then on the other, and has shown us the entranced |
medium from head to foot by his brilliant light, passing it j
from the sleeping medium’s head to his feet, and from his |
feet to his head, so that we could all distinctly see him, saying, j
at the same time, “ Do you see the medium ? do you see the
medium ? ”
At another time Mr. Williams came in unexpectedly. I j
was sitting alone in my little study. Two intimate friends
afterwards joined us, and we proposed a stance. There was
barely room in the embrasure of the window for the chair
on which we seated Mr. Williams. He was scarcely covered
by the scanty curtains, which I was obliged to pin together j
to close them. On that evening we had one of the best |
stances I ever witnessed. The fine figure of John King
emerged from this small embrasure in full costume, and j
bearing a bright light in his hand. I said: “John, what
will you do for us to-night?” He answered : “What can I j
^ do under such conditions.” He placed one hand upon j
my shoulder, and fixing his eyes upon mine with the most
intense gaze, said, calling me by my Christian name : “ Look
well into my eyes. What colour are they ?” I answered :
“ Very dark—almost black.” “ What colour are the eyes of
the medium?” I said: “I think they are light eyes.”
“ Well,” said John, “ that is a test; a man cannot change the
colour of his eyes.” At my request he floated over the
table, and seating himself beside my friend, Mrs. L., gave
her the same test with the eyes he had given to me. He
also left his light upon the table for our examination. It
was like the half of a flattened sphere, and shone with a
brilliancy as of moonlight. We have since had innumerable
sittings with Mr. Williams, both at my own house and at
that of my son, and among other tests we have observed
that he has been speaking to us at the same time that the i
whistlings and voices have been heard.
Some years ago, when Messrs. Bastian and Taylor were in j
London, I felt a great desire to try their mediumship. I
went one evening alone, and quite unknown to them. Mr. j
Taylor sat next to me; there were eight or nine persons j
present, and Mr. Taylor was describing to them some of I
their spirit friends that he saw clairvoyantly. The descrip¬
tions appeared to give satisfaction. In a few minutes Mr. j
Taylor turned suddenly round to me, and said there is a j
spirit near you anxious for recognition. The blue eyes, the j
fair hair, and other details, brought to my mind a relation |
long since passed away. When he added the name Eliza¬
beth, I could not fail to recognise her. After a time he
described another spirit, very beautiful. “ Oh ! she is gone,” j
he exclaimed; he then again saw her, and gave accurate |
details of height, the colour of the hair, eyes, &c.
I asked: “Can she give her name?” There was no
response. “ Will she bow her head should I guess the right j
one ?” The head bowed in the affirmative. “Now,” he said,
ff she stands quite close to you. Is it possible you do not see
her ?” I then purposely mentioned several names at ramdom,
but with equal earnestness of manner. There was no re- I
sponsive sign. At last I pronounced the right one, and felt j
several taps on my knee, just as Mr. Taylor said: “ She j
bows her head and seems pleased that you have guessed her I
name,” I then said—still unconvinced—“ If you are really j
the spirit you profess to be, touch something I am wearing |
which once belonged to you.” I may say,.I had on rings, j
earrings, a watch and chain, a brooch, and bracelet. A small I
delicate hand then slid itself into my bosom, and drew j
forth a locket, which contained the hair of the dear relative
I had named, and which had rested there, closely hidden |
and unknown to any one for years. I distinctly heard her i
kiss it; she then passed it to me to kiss, and I distinctly
felt the tips of the fingers as she held it to my lips.
One evening at my son’s house, in 1872, where the spirit I
Katey King was a constant visitor at our private circles, the
spring of the large musical box gave way. She said
“ Never mind,” and began playing on the comb of the box
with her nails. She really produced some sweet music. I j
said to her, ff Katey, you must have good nails to be j
able to do that.” Her reply was, “ Would you like to feel
them ?” A small hand was put into mine, and I felt finely '
| formed nails. She then said, “ Look at my teeth,” and
! showed me by the light, peculiarly her own, a whole and
| perfect set. This little spirit Katey King, whose departure
| caused us so much regret, explained that when the spirit of
| John King was fully materialised she would no longer be
! | able to show herself. A short time before she finally took
11 her leave, we had a stance at my son’s house under strict
I conditions. After tying the medium, Mr. Williams, with
• I several yards of thin rope, and surrounding him in such a
! | manner that he could not move without our being made
; | aware of it, Katey said, “ Are you sure you have tied the
j medium securely, for remember this is a ‘ test ’ stance f ’ Upon
| our assuring her that we had done so, she said “ I must go and
I see.” In two seconds the whole length of rope was thrown over
| us, Katey exclaiming, “ Do you call that tying the medium for
j a test ? You must secure him better than that.” We then
j secured him a second time. Katey, after talking to us and
| patting and caressing us, said, “ Would you like to see me
| in my spirit robes, as I am in the spheres ? ” A sight was
then presented to us which we can never forget. Her full
| form appeared as if encircled with luminous robes of some
| immaterial substance. Through this envelope we could dis¬
tinctly see the small hands folded across the breast. She
| remained thus for two or three minutes, so that we all had a
full view of this wondrous apparition. She, after a time,
| resumed her usual appearance, floating about from one to
the other, mesmerising us, kissing us, and showing us her
| long hair, and throwing her drapery over us. I made the
request that she would allow me to cat off a small piece of
her drapery, to which she consented, saying, “ Cut it off
quickly, or it will dematerialise.” A pair of scissors was
given to me, and I cut off a piece, which I have still in my
possession. I took this piece to a large warehouse, saying
that I wished to match it. After showing me several pieces
of muslin, in no way resembling it, and considerable con¬
sultation between the shopmen, I was assured that it could
I not be matched, as it was Indian hand-made muslin,
and the hem was the backstitch of the Indian shawlmakers.
It has been asserted that all these materialised robes are
machine made. This was not so.
On another occasion, as we sat in strictly private family
stance, our friends said, “ Engage Mr. Williams on such a
night, and sit exactly as we direct you.” We each had our
places designated. Our medium was to sit with her back to
the curtain. The directions were implicitly obeyed. We
waited for some time. Our medium grew impatient and
somewhat curious. She wondered what was goiugon behind
the curtains. Her curiosity at last grew to indiscretion,
and without saying a word to us, she turned quickly round
and peeped in. A sight presented itself which she will not
j easily forget. The medium, Mr. Williams, was lying en-
I tranced upon a small sofa, and a form, bright and beautiful,
and self-illuminated, was bending over him in a half kneel-
| ing posture, mesmerising him as he lay unconscious there.
| That evening we had a small and lovely materialised female
spirit-form, the lower part of the face only covered by a veil,
holding flowers in her hand, which she showed us, all lighted
! up by the self-luminous light held by the large hand of John
King. Afterwards another female form came before the
| curtain and passed round by us. Mr. Crookes once brought
his spectroscope to examine the light brought by John King,
I and declared that it did not resemble any he had previously
j examined. At an afternoon stance, in 1874, Monsieur de Veh
and three or four friends were present; I had procured eight
! moss rose buds, and placed them in specimen glasses in my
! dining-room. We went into the stance room, locking both
| doors ; after the stance had commenced we all perceived the
i scent of moss roses, and one was given to each sitter except
| myself. On our return to the dining-room we found the
j eight specimen glasses empty, each person with a rose bud,
| and mine stuck in my hair. On that day John King placed
| Monsieur de Yeh’s right hand on his own (John King’s)
beard, and the left on the head of the entranced medium
I seated in the embrasure of the small study window.
At another stance at my house, Mr. Williams being held
] firmly by both his hands the whole time, the spirit Peter
| was very active, and determined on putting to the test
j whether I should illustrate the model woman of Alexander
! Pope, and be
Nov. 22, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
245
“ Mistress of myself
Though China fall.”
He removed from the mantelpiece and brackets a rather
rare collection of Dresden china, jingling each cup and
saucer as he carried them, resting a heavy China vase upon
each of our heads as he transported it from one part of the
room to another, taking the clock from under the glass- shade,
shaking it, stopping it, and making it go on again, saying
to me,Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, you are not afraid, are you ? have
I ever broken anything belonging to you yet? ” I answered,
“ I am quite content; I have implicit trust that you will not
injure anything.” There was not a crack nor a chip to be
found in anything when the seance was over, though all the
articles were deposited on the table at which we were seated.
The records of our family sittings up to this date were duly
entered in a book at the time, but most of them are of so
private a nature with regard to some of the members, that I
am not permitted to give them. Our experiences in private
sittings with the well-known medium and clairvoyant, Mr.
W. Fletcher, are amongst them. In my first sitting with
him about two years ago, I felt convinced that his power
surpassed any I had yet had experience of. He told me of
events in my life, and especially one crisis in it, of which no
one present knew anything. He gave names and tests and
messages, and foretold events of which I was then entirely
ignorant. He minutely described friends who had passed
away, giving their names, and bringing messages from them.
He directed me in a course I was to pursue, the very reverse
of what I intended, and the result was as he foretold.' His
control, a little Indian spirit, “ Winona,” reads my thoughts.
Whenever I have much to distress me, she induces
mesmeric sleep in her medium, and through his hand writes
me the kindest and most consoling little letters, quite
different from his style or handwriting. I have quite a
packet of them !
In writing the foregoing pages, my pen from time to time
has been holden by the fear of touching too nearly on the
sacred confidences which are whispered into our ears by our
loved and loving ones who are ever about our path, and it is
not without some feeling of pain that I send forth this paper
to the wztender mercies of the sceptic and the scoffer, who
will only ridicule what has been to me a source of so much
comfort in trials which have been many and severe; but I
do so in the hope that enough has been said to convince—at
least those who hear me—that by private sittings with true
friends, whose influences are pure and harmonious, you may
all be able to obtain something you can lay to heart—some¬
thing to comfort and cheer you, and make you feel that your
loved ones are not lost, but are doing all they can in their
sweet sympathy to brighten your desponding hours, and to
help and cheer you on, through the hard battle of life, to
that sweet reunion where there shall be no more partings,
no more tears.
Mr. Morse’s visit to Chester has started a long controversy on Spirit¬
ualism in the Chester Observer, in which Mr. A. Taylor and others are
taking part. The objectors do not attempt to use the imposture theory,
which is now tolerably well “ played out,” but find a friend in need in
the Devil.
Mind and Matter.—In the course of a lecture delivered last week
before the Newcastle Philosophical Institution, Mr. T.P. Barkas, F.Gr.S.,
stated that he did not mean to assert that mind is a property of
matter, and that the brain secretes thought as the liver secretes bile ;
but he did assert as a hypothesis that, apart from the motion of
material organised bodies, we have no evidence that in this life any
terrestrial being can possess consciousness of an external world. It
was said to be unthinkable that cerebral motion can produce thought ;
but was it not equally unthinkable, and yet perfectly manifest, that
vibrations in an invisible hypothetical ether produce sensations of
light and colour of every degree and shade in the chambers of the
brain? Is one set of phenomena at all more unthinkable than the
other? and whilst wo could not trace the modus operandi of cranial
motion and consciousness, we might believe that in this life all
thoughts, feelings, and emotions are the products of modes of cerebral
motion, but we cannot accept the theory that the cerebral mass is itself
the human Ego, which stands behind all human organisms and sur¬
vives all molecular change. On the contrary he must affirm that the
brain is to the real man directly what the organs of vision are to him
indirectly, and that in this life molecular cerebral action and human
consciousness are essentially connected. All the laws of these infinite
realms of matter and mind are in the hands and under the control of
the Divine and incomprehensible Artificer, who is in all, and through
all, and above all.
DR. FORBES WINSLOW.
Dr. Forbes Winslow was one of the persons who called on
Mrs. Weldon under an assumed name. Was it Shell or Stewart he
called himself ? He has sent the following letter to the British
Medical Journal
I trust you will allow me to state in your columns a few circum¬
stances connected with the case of Mrs. Weldon, especially as, from
my professional connection with it, I am unable to do so in the daily
press.
I was requested by Mr. Weldon to visit his wife at his house
(Tavistock House), Tavistock-square, and give an opinion on her
mental state. In my absence from home Dr. Winn had the first inter¬
view with Mr. Weldon, at my residence. I subsequently saw him,
and it was agreed that Dr. Winn and myself should visit Mrs. Weldon,
conjointly, on the following day. This visit being made, a written
opinion was sent to her husband, such a proceeding being customary
in cases of a similar character, before any decisive steps are taken by
the relatives.
I have no desire to enter into the question of her present mental
state, as my visit was made more than six months ago. The opinion
then expressed by me induced her husband to take the necessary steps
for her further examination by two medical men, in order to legally
certify as to her mental condition, should they deem such a course
necessary. Dr. Rudderforth and Dr. C. E. Armand Semple examined
her the same evening, and signed the lunacy certificates; Sir Henry
de Bathe, who had also seen her the same day, having previously
signed the “ order,” and her husband the “ statement.” These docu¬
ments were given to me, and I was legally empowered by 8 and 9
Vic., c. 100, s. 99, to make the necessary arrangements for the removal
of Mrs. Weldon to the asylum.
The course here pursued is that universally adopted in similar
cases. In addition, however, to the documents required by Act of
Parliament, I obtained a written request and authority from the
husband.
Mrs. Weldon, however, evaded my nurses before they could act on
the legal authority they held in their possession ; and since that time
she has written numerous letters to the papers, and distributed circulars,
vilifying me and others, with the view of directing the attention of the
public to her case.
My absence on the Continent during the last month has prevented
my attention to the matter before; I therefore trust that you will insert
this letter.
I have this morning received an envelope from Mrs. Weldon con¬
taining two tickets for a meeting to be held at St. James’s Hall. The
envelope is conspicuous for having on the outside two stamps, the
ordinary Queen’s head above, whilst below is a picture of herself,
on which is printed these words, “Lunacy Laws” and “Musical
Reform.”
Mr. A. Joy has given in the following notices of motion for the
next Council meeting of the National Association of Spiritualists :—
1. That it is, according to our rules and bye-laws, out of order, and
that it is also unusual and objectionable to discuss a notice of motion.
2. That it has hitherto been considered that the Council has no
right to refuse to accept a notice of motion, and that the rejection
of any notice of motion, not absolutely outrageous, is a mischievous
precedent.
Sunday Services. — On Sunday next, November 24th, Ladbroke
Hall will be opened for a series of services in connection with Spirit¬
ualism, when Mr. W. H. Lambelle will deliver’a course of addresses on the
“ Origin of Religious Rites and Ceremonies,” in continuation of those
previously given at Doughty Hall. In the morning a short devotional
service will be held, commencing at 11.30, and in the evening at 7,
at which hours the doors will be closed punctually so as to prevent
interruption during the progress of the services. A cordial invitation
is extended to all. The singing will be sustained by a choir of ladies,
whose services are gratuitous. Ladbroke Hall is situate opposite to
the Notting-hill Station (not Notting-hill-gate), Ladbroke-grove-road,
London, W.
Lecky on “ Religion.”—The religion of one age is often the poetry
of the next. Around every living and operative faith there lies a
religion of allegory and of imagination into which opinions frequently
pass, and in which they long retain a transfigured and idealised
existence after their natural life has died away. They are, as it were,
deflected. They no longer tell directly and forcibly upon human
actions. They no longer produce terror, inspire hopes, awake passions,
or mould the characters of men ; yet they still exercise a kind of reflex
influence, and form part of the ornamental culture of the age. They
are turned into allegories. They are interpreted in a non-natural sense.
They are invested with a fanciful, poetic, but most attractive garb.
They follow instead of control the current of thought, and, being
transformed by far-fetched and ingenious explanation, they become
the embellishments of systems of belief that are wholly irreconcilable
with their original tendencies. The gods of heathenism were thus
translated from the sphere of religion to the sphere of poetry. The
grotesque legends and the harsh doctrines of a superstitious faith are
so explained away that they appear graceful myths for shadowing and
illustrating the conceptions of a higher day. For a time they flicker
upon the horizon with a softly beautiful light that enchants the poet
and sends a charm to the new system with which they are made to
blend ; but at last this, too, fades away. Religious ideas die like the
sun ; their last rays, possessing little heat, are expended in creating
beauty.—Lecky.
246
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 22, 1878.
A MEDIUM FLOATING IN THE AIR IN THE LIGHT.
BY BERKS T. HUTCHINSON.
Mr. Eglinton has been levitated in the light, in the
presence of seven witnesses. He was in a state of trance
on this occasion, and floated up perpendicularly to my
ceiling, coming down again, and re-rising. This was done
four or five times. He then rose into the air, assumed a
horizontal position, and floated to within nine inches of the j
gas, which was burning, though not at the full. When he
came up the two palms of his hands were put up to his
face, as if screening him from the action of the light. We
all saw him quite distinctly, and noticed that he was in the
mesmeric or trance state. This is, he says, the first time j
that to his knowledge he has been seen to float in the light, !
and I consider the fact a great triumph over sceptics.
We have on seven or eight other occasions had him
floated up to my ceiling, but as it always took place in the |
dark, that circumstance militated against us, although we !
were in a position to argue out logically that it was true.
When levitated in the dark he was usually quite awake, and !
spoke to us; the sitters on each side, when he was ascend¬
ing, were obliged to stand on their chairs, and finally on j
the table; on some occasions they were compelled to release j
his hands. He would knock his hands against the ceiling,
kick it with his boots, and on one or two occasions write a
word, or make a sign I suggested at the moment. The
words are now on my ceiling. We have felt his boots touch )1
our heads all round; we were gently touched, Mr. Eglinton 11
talking all the time. A Mr. Hugh Fisher (a private medium) j
has been levitated on several occasions in a similar way, and j
wrote his name on my ceiling. !
Mr. Eglinton has been levitated in another private house, j
and the lady in whose room the stance was held was floated |
at the same time, she being a medium. Having only our j
hearing and feeling in the dark, people fancy we have been j
self-deceived; but the writing is still on the ceiling, and the j
levitation in the light, with seven persons as witnesses, gives |
us the best of the argument. j
I have some important results to make known in reference |
to dematerialisation of the medium’s body up to his chest. | L
This was not Mr. Eglinton, but Mr. Fisher. It will throw I j
much light on the recent weighing experiments at the rooms | |
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
Gape Town, South Africa, Oct. 12th, 1878.
A MATERIALISATION SEANCE WITHOUT THE USE
OF A. CABINET. |
A seance was held on Thursday, November 14th, at Cam- j j
bridge, in the rooms of Mr. H. S. Smith, of Downing j
College. Mr. Williams was the medium. Mr. Williams jj
arrived in Cambridge with no luggage, and the room had j
never been previously sat in. Places having been arranged I j
at the table by John King, the manifestations commenced j j
in a few minutes. The musical instruments, occasionally j j
illuminated by phosphorescent light, floated about the room, ! j
touching the heads of the sitters, and knocking against the j i
ceiling, which the medium could not have reached even if he j
had stood on the table. The voices of John and Peter were J |
heard throughout the seance, sometimes both speaking at j j
once in different parts of the room. A cabinet had been I
prepared in one corner of the room, and a chair within it ill
sealed to the carpet for the purpose of securing the medium. I j
As Peter found that a cabinet would not be necessary for j i
materialisations, he proceeded to enter it, and to carry out ! j
the chair, tearing it up from the carpet with great force. | i
One of the sitters had mentally asked the spirits, and com- | j
municated this to no one else, that if Peter materialised he j j
should show himself in a college cap. In accordance with j I j
this, a college cap was brought by the spirits from a distant j j j
part of the room, and the well-known form of Peter ap- j
peared over the centre of the table, made visible to all by j j
the light which he carried, with his body materialised as far j j |
down as the waist, robed in white drapery, and wearing on j j
his head a black college cap. John also tried to materialise, j !
but, the power failing, he was compelled to relinquish his I j
task. j [
We found our account of the Riko affair corroborated in Hi
every particular by Mr. Williams, and we therefore retain
our former opinion, notwithstanding the British National
Association, who are not an elective body, and have no right
to force their opinions on other people.
We, the undersigned members of the University, do most
solemnly, upon our honour, declare that we held the hands
of the medium during the whole of the seance recorded
above. A. E. Hunter, Jesus College.
H. S. Smith, Downing College.
Gambridgo.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
HOME EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM.
Last Monday night, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-
street, London, the Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., presided. There
was a full attendance.
The Chairman stated that Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, who was so honoured
and well-known among Spiritualists, was about to narrate some of her
home experiences in relation to spirit circles. He added that these are
days in which those who step forward to the front to tell the public what
they know deserve a considerable amount of credit for having the
courage of their convictions.
Mrs. Fitz-Gerald then read her paper, which is published in full in
this number of The Spiritualist.
Mr. Parkinson Ashton proposed a vote of thanks to Mrs. Fitz-Gerald
j for her paper.
Mr. Thomas Shorter remarked that a narrative of experiences left
little for discussion, except that listeners could tell what they had wit¬
nessed themselves. He had had several trustworthy seances with Mr.
Williams, also with Mr. Fletcher. Through the latter he had been told
some definite matters of fact about one of his friends which had not been
in his own mind.
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood said that there was a disposition to doubt
the identity of some of the spirits seen by clairvoyance, and to put
them down to the imagination of the sensitive. About four years ago
he had seen through Miss Lottie Fowler’s mediumship what purported
to be the materialised form of the brother of the Baron von Vay, Hen-
rick. He was neither interested in the name nor in the manifestation,
but a few days ago at a seance in Cardiff the medium said, “I see a
spirit near you, who says that his name is Henrick, and that he has
met you.” He (Mr. Wedgwood) denied this. The spirit said that it
was at a seance; he gave the letters L. F., and added “ Lot—Lot,” when
he remembered Lottie Fowler. He could not doubt but that the spirit
was there.
Mr. C. C Massey, without wishing to disparage the evidence for
spirit identity, thought that the facts of psychometry might explain
away a portion. Once he took a bundle of letters out of a drawer, and
without knowing who wrote them placed them before Lottie Fowler.
In many cases she could not describe the writers ; in others she did so
with accuracy, but it was no proof that a spirit was present. She told
him that the writer of one letter was a lady with three children, and she
faithfully described her. It was all true ; she was a cousin of his own.
She described one writer in a way which baffled him till he looked at
the letter, and discovered it to be written by the steward of Lincoln’s
Inn, who had been perfectly pictured.
Mr. G. R. Tapp had observed that Spiritualists were more critical than
people outside the movement, because they knew more of the subject.
(Hear, hear.) Once he and others at the Dalston Association had seen
Mr. Williams’s “John King” come out of a cabinet at half-length,
floating across a table which would have barred progress of a being with
legs. Mr. Harrison had subsequently seen a similar manifestation.
Dr. Carter Blake wondered why the German Baron Heinrich spelt
his name Hendrick, as if he were a Dutchman, when he appeared at
Lottie Fowler’s seances. From the way in which the moustache was
displayed on the face of the form, he thought that it was the medium
brought out without her own knowledge. He had had fine test seances
with Mr. Williams, the genuineness of whose materialisations had been
proved by the recording pencil of self-registering machinery, which was
unbiased in opinion, and could tell no lie.
Mr. Harrison asked whether Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, who had had the
honour of witnessing the early manifestations through Mrs. Hayden’s
mediumship, could tell the meeting where the first seance in England
was held, and who were the witnesses present at it. Did she mean
that the fabric of which she had spoken was machine-made or machine-
sewed, and was it the same that Mrs. Gunyon had once so graphically
described to him ?
Mr. Fitz-Gerald thought that the home circle should be more culti¬
vated by Spiritualists, who likewise should not get into the state of mind
of Mr. St. George Stock, who seemed not to know what he had seen,
and what he had not seen. There was a mean between scepticism and
credulity. He had had very good seances with Mr. Williams and Mr.
Fletcher.
Mrs. Hallock wished that some of the speakers had said less about
“dead” people and their “deceased” friends. The spirits she had
known were the liveliest people out. Her seances usually began with
reading a chapter from the Bible; the messages were more truthful in
consequence; perhaps it threw the spirit of prayer over the minds of all
present, not that it otherwise necessarily had any special efficacy.
Mrs. Fitz-Gerald stated that she believed that Mrs. Hayden’s first
seance in England was held with Lady Combermere, her son, Major
Cotton, and Mr. Henry Thompson, of York.
The Cuairman said that spirit photography gave some of the most
Nov. 22, 1878.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
247
conclusive tests of spirit identity, as set forth by him in some articles he
had written in Human Nature. Once at the house of Mr. Crookes,
in the presence of Dr. Speer, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mrs. Crookes,
and Mrs. Humphreys, Mr. Williams, chair and all, shot from
the floor to top of the table, where, when a light was struck, his
head was found “framed” between two of the gas globes of the
chandelier, and not far from a metal “spike” on the same. Mr.
Williams’s hands were held all the time by Mrs. Crookes and Mrs.
Humphreys. If Mr. Maskelyne could do that, he would make a more
rapid fortune even than he was making at present. On one occasion,
in the house of Dr. Speer, Mr. Williams sat with the back of his chair
close to the door of a small bookcase, in such a way that if he moved
his chair to open the bookcase the other sitters in the room would have
had to shift their places, yet under these conditions a large book was
taken out of the bookcase and placed on the table. Dr. Speer had
placed the book in the case before the seance began. He had seen the
beautiful womanly “ flexible ” features of Katie King, while her half-
length form was on the table, at one of Mr. Williams’s seances. He
had seen spirit hands at a private home circle, with no profes¬
sional medium present, and once a “John King” kind of light perched
itself on the corner of the table for forty-five minutes ; no phosphorus
could do that.
The proceedings closed with a warm vote of thanks to Mrs. Fitz¬
Gerald.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
.At the last meeting of the Psychological Society, held under the
presidency of Mr. Serjeant Cox, at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-
square, London, there was an overflowing attendance of members and
friends.
Mr. Serjeant Cox delivered his presidential address, which was pub¬
lished in full in the last number of The Spiritualist.
Lieut.-Col. Hartley, in proposing a vote of thanks for the address,
said that unless somebody like Mr. Serjeant Cox came forward to head
the movement, to act as the steel point to the arrow, no progress could
be made; the public might have a desire to know more about the
subject, but the means would not be provided. Without such a society,
the materialist would have nothing to discuss; there would be no shield
of resistance to his sword. He wondered that the clergy did not seem
to be interested in the proving of their position by experiment, for only
by actual experiment could progress be made in this age; dogmas and
controversies were now useless without facts, reproducible facts. He
had great respect for everything established, and had there been no
psychology, nothing but mesmerism, he should still have been walking
in the old track, and accepting everything upon authority. For five
years they had been a Psychological Society, and he did not like to
change the name. It was perfectly absurd to suppose that he and
others like him would ever become Spiritualists and permanently con¬
fused, and if they were misunderstood by some of the public it was a
good thing rather than otherwise; everybody who made a mark in the
world was misunderstood. Nevertheless, the opinion of Mr. Serjeant
Cox, as the founder of the Society, was entitled to much respect.
Mr. Munton, honorary secretary, said that people had to suffer when
others took their trade-mark, and it was clear that in the minds of the
majority of the public the Psychological Society was identified with
Spiritualism, although most of their meetings did not deal with that
particular subject. They had better have a name which would lead to
no mistake. Many would join the Society did they not believe that it
discussed Spiritualism only ; he, therefore, hoped that they would sup¬
port the president when at the annual meeting he would propose to
change the name of the Psychological Society to Pneumatological
Society.
Mr. Stainton-Moses expressed his great admiration of the presi¬
dential address. As to changing the name of the Society, there was
not much in a name ; the fact was that psychology itself was closely
associated with Spiritualism. He maintained that “ Pneumatology ”—
—a word derived from the Greek—meant “ Spiritualism, pure and
proper,” and nothing else. Once a man who wanted to throw a stone
at him called him “ a pneumatologist.” All the talk about Spirit¬
ualism merely showed how much more interested the public were in
that subject than in any other dealt with by the Society, and they had
better keep to their broad designation of “ psychologists.’’
The proceedings then closed.
The Williams-Rita case, which all arose out of a non-professional
seance given by Mr. Williams, and for which he has suffered severely
for some months, may now perhaps with advantage be numbered
among the events of the past, and controversy about it cease in these
pages. He now has his hands held throughout most of his seances,
and nothing can be more unanswerable than that, yet the same pheno¬
mena take place.
The Spiritual Body.—The spiritual body of which St. Paul speaks
is no figurative expression, but an actual fact, which has been proved,
and is proved by the opened vision of clairvoyants from childhood—
those “discerners of spirits,” who see them around us, bright and
beautiful, yet in “their old likeness,” though we know it not, and
which vision has also been proved to differ as completely from the
hallucinations of cerebral disease as the realities of everyday life do
from the fantastic illusions of dreams. The scepticism and indifference
with which such truths are now received, have paved the way for the
inroads of nineteenth century materialism, that “ half a truth,” as
Tennyson well says, “ which is ever the worst of lies.” “ Unknown
force” is only another name for spiritual causation, and the source of
spiritual power is God Himself, whose faint reflectious we perceive in
that undeveloped form of matter which we recognise as “ physical.”—
Sanitary Matters, by S, E, Gay.
A FIELD FOR LEGAL ABILITY INSIDE SPIRITUALISM.
In the solitary, large organisation inside Spiritualism,
| questions of constitutional law invariably arise conjoined
!j to temporary practical difficulties, and in consequence of the
I managers being thus hampered by two questions at the same
| time, precedents of doubtful wisdom are established. Had
| the question of the relationship of the National Association of
Spiritualists to the alleged misconduct of mediums been
! considered apart from alliance with a case in point, there is
little doubt that the Association would have decided not to
j interfere in any case in which the witnesses could not appear
| before it. As matters now stand, it is bound to look after
| certain mediums in whatever part of the world they may be,
| and to come to decisions upon evidence which would be re-
I jected in a court of justice. The mediums, fortunately, will
j not suffer by this so much as at first sight seems to be the
li case, because in the absence of such inquiry the only alter-
! native of he complainants would be recourse to a law court,
j where each medium would be convicted be he innocent
or guilty, because of the ignorance of legal tribunals of the
nature of spiritual manifestations.
Another case in which pre-examination would have been
beneficial is that in which directorship and executive powers
have been combined in committees. Temporarily there is
some advantage in this, because of the saving of expense, in
the absence of funds to pay sufficient officers. But the system
| is faulty, especially when committees, which have extra-
| ordinarily large powers, have not their minutes examined and
| authorised by the governing body before they take effect,
i Instead of merely considering questions they are ordered to
| examine, and reporting thereon, the committees now raise for
| themselves any question they think to be within range of
I their titles; they spend and receive money; they do the
| work of executive officers; and they sometimes issue
| printed documents to the public which are legally binding
| upon the whole organisation, but of which their superior
| officers know little or nothing. Nearly all the evils of the
system could be avoided if the excellent plan practically at
i work in nearly every Town Council in the United Kingdom
| were adopted, namely, that of having the minutes of com-
I mittees read over to the superior body, and made of no
authority until by it adopted. The use of this common plan
!l would save work, and remove several dangers at one blow.
At present it is impossible to get up a discussion on
| these constitutional questions, so few of the managers
having had experience in relation thereto, wherefore the
! presence on the Council of a few more barristers, who
would help to regulate procedure by constitutional law instead
| of by rule of thumb, would prevent a certain proportion of
| inconsistency, and too much wandering hither and thither
j in the dark, when driven by the emotions or by the exigencies
of the moment.
The consideration of these constitutional points may
| perhaps be deferred with advantage to more prosperous times;
meanwhile this protest may be recorded against the present
| system, which keeps the managers imperfectly acquainted
| with a proportion of work, erroneously supposed to be fully
under their control.
| The Southampton mail for India leaves the day before The Spirit-
| ualist is published, and the Brindisi mail leaves the day after, so
readers in India would receive this journal a fortnight earlier by order¬
ing it to be sent by the latter route.
| Sir Garnet Wolseley, Governor of Cyprus, has seen enough of
| spiritual phenomena to admit their reality. A remarkable seance at
which he was present at the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory was
| once published in these pages.
Character Read from Handwriting.—Major Menars writes that,
in consequence of seeing a paragraph on the above subject in The
I Spiritualist, he wrote to Miss Ross, merely saying that he enclosed her
fee, and would be obliged by her letting him know the result of her
| coming in contact with his note, which he had mesmerised by breathing
on it. He adds, “ I received, by return, a description of my character,
which the friends I have shown it to, and who are possibly more im-
i partial judges than myself, say is a very true one. It tallies with
| one obtained from J. Murray Spear about two or three years ago, and
! also with a phrenological one given by the late Mr. Donovan many
years since.—Bath, Nov. 16th, 1878.”
248
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 22, 1878.
(E’ormpim'Deiice.
[ Great freedom is offered to correspondents., who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be Icept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.] —  
CABINET AND COUNCIL.
Sib,—It is long since I have read anything in The Spiritualist
which has commanded my so general and hearty concurrence as the
letter of Mr. Stainton-Moses on “Form Manifestations by the Light
of Recent Events,” this week. It is by taking such counsels as his
to heart, and acting upon them, rather than by sham investigations
to formulate foregone conclusions, that we shall purify, if ever, that
which we are pleased to call Spiritualism, from abuses that too
notoriously belong to the trade in physical manifestations. Our
Association might have done good service if it had made this
wretched Amsterdam incident the occasion for some general declara¬
tion on the subject of cabinet seances for so-called materialisations.
Not that I would abolish them for all purposes. With very select
investigators—persons who are present to study and observe, not to
believe and wonder, or to disbelieve and “ expose,” or to doubt and
dissemble—the cabinet may be often useful for the solution of quite
different and very difficult problems, of the psychological, rather than of
the physical order. And I am glad to take this opportunity of testifying
that there are mediums who sit out of sight, and whose manifestations
sometimes suggest the doubts to which I am now referring, who yet are,
I believe, sincerely and liberally tolerant of those doubts, who do not
demand that friendly feeling should take the form of blind acquiescence,
and who, if treated on a footing of equal intelligence and sincerity, and
not merely as instruments for the demonstration of what is perhaps not,
or not always, a vera causa, could and would help us with a record
where we too hastily assume there is a blank. If we would only
recognise mediums as investigators like ourselves, if we could only
cease from hypocrisy towards them, not with the view of getting them
to submit to “tests” (for the whole system of prearranged “tests ’’ I
believe to be a thoroughly false and crude method of investigation,
except, of course, for mere beginners), but for the establishment of what
I may call a scientific confidence between us and them, I am sure, from
some experience in this direction, that it would greatly facilitate our
progress. In that case we need not fear the cabinet, and might often
find it useful. But this is only for private circles, where there is a
perfectly frank and friendly spirit, and none of that pretence of believing
without evidence which to an intelligent medium ought to be, and, I
believe, sometimes is, as offensive as the rudest scepticism. But for the
general public circle, let us by all means declare against the cabinet
altogether, and for the reasons so cogently put forth by Mr. Stainton-
Moses, and enforced by yourself. Our Council is composed of persons
all, probably, more than commonly conversant with the facts of Spirit¬
ualism, and whose expressed judgment ought to carry weight. A col¬
lective denunciation of the “ cabinet ” from such authority would be a
record to which every Spiritualist might appeal to distinguish repre¬
sentative opinion in. the movement from the credulity which is the
nutriment of fraud, and which would stop at least fair and well-informed
opponents from fastening future “ exposures ” of this description upon
us to the discredit of our cause. But to pass judgment on individual
cases not occurring on our premises is, in my opinion, quite beyond our
province, and that whether the judgment is pronounced with or without
the pretence of an “ investigation,” which could not possibly satisfy
the conditions of a fair and sufficient inquiry. My use of
the term “ judicial inquiry” was objected to at the Council last week ;
but the object of the special committee either was or was not to arrive
at the truth of a matter of fact by means of evidence. If they had no
other evidence before them than the letters which had been already
published, and the statement of the accused, which was also known to
everybody, I don’t see how, even with the additional privilege of the
sight of a darned rag, they had better materials for decision than any
other reader of The Spiritualist. Every bit of “ evidence ” before them
would have been properly rejected in any English court of law. I ven¬
ture to say with the utmost confidence, and without the least imputation
on any of- the witnesses, that no two of them, separately examined,
would have told the story exactly to the same effect, or exactly as it
appears in the statement signed by them all, without material
divergences therefrom, or material additions thereto; and any lawyer
in the world would share my assurance on this point. It is always
found to be the case that witnesses, in volunteering evidence which has
led them to a certain conclusion, tell only what they think material,
omitting, or forgetting, till it is recalled to their often reluctant
minds by the process of cross-examination, many circumstances
which to the tribunal may seem highly important. Be this as
it may, what I wish to point out is that this committee has
added just nothing to our knowledge or to our justifiable assurance.
The chairman, Mr. Dawson Rogers, replying upon me at the Council,
amusingly betrayed his own consciousness of this. He rather signi¬
ficantly observed that there was not a member present who did not
believe that the committee had come to a right conclusion. I do not
think Mr. Rogers meant this on the ground of our unlimited confidence
in his committee. But if not, his remark assumed a conclusion that
was quite independent of the so-called “ investigation.” And, indeed,
one of the members of that very committee had already, before its
appointment, proposed a resolution which recognised the truth of the
charges. Whether we agree with it or not, I cannot conceive a docu¬
ment more absolutely worthless, for what it professes to be, than the
report which was adopted by a large majority of the Council last Tues¬
day. And I fear that its adoption, and the whole action of the Council
in this matter, is in a great measure due to a feeling expressed by one of
its best, ablest, and most esteemed members, that “ a medium stood
in relation to Spiritualism much as a minister stood in relation to his
church, and if any charge is brought against a minister, his church is
bound, in self-defence, to inquire into it.” I presume the Church of
“Peter.” I am not a member of it. C. C. Massey.
Temple.  
Sib,—Having been prevented from attending' the last Council
meeting, I beg you to grant me space in your valuable paper to enter
my protest against the verdict adopted on the Williams-Rita case.
Justified as the conclusion may appear in the eyes of people who have
no extensive knowledge of spiritual phenomena, with their perplexities
and hidden intrigues, it challenges severe criticism in the face of past
and present experiences, as the thoughtful leader in your last suggests.
If by occult powers various things can be brought and slipped into
closed rooms and carpet bags (distant or near), bottles, pencil cases, and
beards may claim the same chance. This is strictly logical. If wicked
designs are at the root of these occult agencies, it is mere child’s play to
shift all suspicion on to the medium, or, rather, to his external person.
These agencies surpass us in wisdom and in cunning devices, and the
true Spiritualist has the advantage (?—according to his intellect)—of
seeing a vastly extended horizon of life and forces, from which the
observer in lower material regions is shut out. We ought not to be
guided by what “ ideal spirits ” ought, might, should do, or not, but by
what is being done. This is strict logic too.
I protest, also, against the reluctance (not unfrequently expressed) to
advance the theory of intrigues on the part of spirits, because it is
unpopular, thus sacrificing the good name of a medium in order to uphold
a doubtful dignitary as a judge before the eyes of the ignorant. Truth
ought to be searched far, regardless of personal position and comfort,
when such is the expressed aim of a person or Association. Likewise,
permit me to express my dissent from dictating conditions as to
abolishing cabinets and dark seances, although I most heartily agree to
a purification of them in general, particularly the members of the circle.
People who close with a candle-extinguisher their capacity for observa¬
tion and feelings of decency, ought not to be admitted at all, as unfitted
to receive spiritual lessons, where whipcord would suit them better. To
extend noble ideas to such is waste of time and power.
In conclusion, let me add that my indignation would be as intense as
that of those who have sifted the present affair, if consciously planned
fraud on the part of the mediums should force itself on my mind, after
the whole chain of evidence (including the suppressed reports) is put on
view. C, Reimers.
47, Mornington-road, London, November 16th.
Sib,—Having noticed in your last a letter from Mr. Williams denying
the trickery attributed to him at Amsterdam, I think it my duty to
publish some words he uttered in Mr. Riko’s presence the day after the
exposure, which are quite the opposite. Here are the words:—“ I think
it will be my ruin as a public medium.” Anycommentary is useless.
Mr. Rita thereupon offered to return in a short time to show that he
could get genuine manifestations, and Mr. Williams rejoined that in
this case the Amsterdam affair must not be published. Let every
Spiritualist judge for himself.
I have noticed in the last Medium a short letter from Mr. Reimers, in
which he compares the exposure to a “ muddy pond, on which the
bottle of phosphorus and beards are still swimming.” I suppose he
means floating. So truth floats always to the top of the pools of
deceit.
I enclose M. Riko’s letter. J. N. Tiedeman Mabtheze.
Brighton.  
Sib,—In the name of several friends of the cause here, I have the
honour of expressing our thanks and sympathetic feelings to the com¬
mittee in the Williams-Rita case for the fearless, manly way in which
they did justice. Their verdict surpasses our expectations, and we
have every reason to congratulate ourselves. Amongst the many letters
of sympathy from England and the Continent only two disapprovals
came in, based on such poor grounds that we heartily pity the writers.
Thanks to you also for allowing the broad sunlight to shine on the facts,
by publishing the pro and con with impartiality and without reference to
personal considerations. We at the Hague deny pertinently that the pub¬
lication of trickery can harm our cause. Spiritualism is the most im¬
portant part of the subject to mankind. Spiritualism wants truth, the
whole truth ; and light, the full light. As long as you honestly allow,
as you have done till now, fair play to both sides, I will meet every
objection in order to help my brethren to light in the matter.
A. J. Riko.
The Hague, November 17th, 1878.
Sir,—I trust I may be allowed a few words in answer to Mr. Stainton-
Moses’s strictures on my last letter.
It is easy enough to make a man out illogical, if you do not mind
misrepresenting him. But I think if Mr. Stainton-Moses will do me
the favour to refer again to my last letter he will find that, so far from
its being illogical, there is nothing in it to which he, or any sensible
man, can refuse assent.
I nowhere denied Mr. Williams’s mediumship on the strength of one
allegation; on the contrary, my letter plainly intimates my belief in the
possession by him of genuine medial powers. What I did commit
myself to was the undeniable proposition that the clear proof lately
brought forward of gross imposture on the part of Mr. Williams
raises a strong presumption against the genuineness of the John King
manifestations altogether; and I further ventured to lay down that “ it
would require very strong evidence indeed to make it anything but the
height of folly to assert the contrary.” I therefore urged that the
Association should take the matter up, not in a judicial but in a scientific
spirit, and endeavour, if Mr. Williams would allow them, to sift the
matter to the bottom.
Now, does Mr. Stainton-Moses really question the soundness of this
Nov. 22, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
249
position P Clearly he does not, and cannot. For however little logical
acumen he may accord to me, I am quite willing to recognise in him the
possession of reasoning faculties of no ordinary degree of power. What j
he does is to assert that the “ very strong evidence * in question is j
forthcoming; and on the strength of this he charges me with “ an utter I
violation of the simple laws of logic.” Plainly the fact of the existence 4
of such evidence does not in the smallest degree affect the truth of my |
position. “There are no genuine coins of the realm,” my critic ex- i
claims, by way of giving me a finishing stroke, “ because Mr. Stock
reads that somebody somewhere once took a bad penny.” I fancy that j
if a coiner had been detected with the implements of his craft about his j
person, Mr. Stainton-Moses would feel a little uncomfortable about any
money he had accepted from the same quarter.
But to turn from personal matters to the question which really
interests all of us. I cannot imagine anything more suicidal than j
the wish expressed by one of the members of the Council that the em¬
ployment of Mr. Williams by the Research Committee might also have j
been prohibited. Is not this exactly what ought to suit both parties ? ]
To Mr. Williams, it is plain, nothing could be more damaging than to
refuse such investigation ; nor is it less desirable from the point of view
of the Research Committee itself. For, however carefully their experi¬
ments may have been conducted, the value of those experiments to the
outer world is, unfortunately, necessarily impaired by recent disclosures,
which point so unmistakably, not merely to a single instance of im¬
posture, but to a long course of it. When I say this no one, I trust,
will be so unreasonable as to imagine that I am hinting any disrespect
for the conclusions of the Research Committee. But surely it is from
every point of view desirable that those experiments should be repeated
under the full knowledge of what the true nature of the John King
manifestations sometimes is. If results could thus be obtained like
those recently vouched for by Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood and Mr. C. C.
Massey, we should have even a better warrant for believing in a real
John King than the evidence of those gentlemen, staggering though it
be, affords. St. George Stock.
8, Museum Villas, Oxford, Nov. 18, 1878.
SOUL-IDEAS AMONG THE ANCIENT EGYPTIANS.
Sir,—I would be sorry to impeach the general accuracy of the
report of the discussion printed on page 222 of The Spiritualist,
which appears to me to be a fair, though short, record of all that
was really said, even though much of it was “ unapproachable in
prose,” and quite new to many present.
I will not repeat the “ fatuous futility ” of quoting from any
alphabet (by which, for the information of my critic, I mean an
ABC) to show the operation of “Grimm’s law,” which has now
been universally accepted, as anybody can read the work of Schleicher
(either in the original, or translated by Bendale, and published by
Trubner and Co.) for themselves. The fear of evoking the ghost of
Mrs. Malaprop, who was wroth when her “ parts of speech V were dis¬
paraged, induces me also to refrain from looking for “ A per contra''' in
a list of Latin substantives.
The theory that the earliest sounds in language “ were emitted by
opening, and not by closing the lips; hence syllables terminating in a
vowel are earlier than those ending with a consonant,” may be tested by
the further hypothesis that the Dutch language, with its definite article
het, is subsequent to the English, in which the form the is used. Now
that Dutchmen are rather active factors in our disputes, respect for the
memory of De Ruyter and Van Tromp will not lead me to provoke a
second attempted invasion on the Medway shores.
I am grateful that the derivation of the word “Hottentot” from
“three pure Egyptian names” has at last been embalmed, though the
ascending spirit from this mummy may
“ Darken all the land of Nile.”
Regarding the somewhat personal remarks, I see no reason to deny,
and I unquestionably believe and confess, that your Egyptian teacher
used as a boy to imitate a donkey in the manner described by him. Nor
did I ever imply a contradictory theory. It is, however, a rather
stale simile to apply attributes of the god Seth to an opponent, and I
would think it unbecoming were I to attempt to retort an epithet which
has already been worn threadbare. To use harsh words when the
matter in controversy is really one interesting to the philologist alone,
is a method of procedure which I shall not imitate. The ejaculation of
Doctor Cherubino in the “ Golden Legend ”—
“May he send your soul to eternal perdition,
For your treatise on the irregular verbs 1 ”
is quite at variance with the experience of the modem school of
Egyptologists. C. Carter Blake.
DARK CIRCLE MANIFESTATIONS PRODUCED IN THE LIGHT.
Sir,—Amidst all this strife about the shams and counter shams of
mediums, it may not be out of place to recount a private stance held
with Mr. Eglinton two or three years ago at the house of Mr.
Fitz-Gerald, of Brixton. It happened in this wise:—
The medium, who had given a satisfactory public seance the previous
evening at the above residence, remained there until the following day.
Mr. and Mrs. Fitz-Gerald had occasion to leave home, and the medium,
Miss Fitz-Gerald, Mr. HerbertEdmands, and myself, held a seance. We
put the room in partial darkness, and sent the servant out of the house
on a pleasure trip, thereby securing perfect privacy for our unholy rites.
We commenced by sitting round a table with all hands linked. I held
the medium’s right hand and Miss Fitz-Gerald held the left. A musical
box of twenty-five pounds weight was placed upon the table, and an
ordinary-sized guitar.
Mr. Eglinton remained in a normal state all through the seance,
which commenced by the musical box being taken from the table by
invisible hands, and placed behind my chair; it was then moved from
there and taken to the door. While this was occurring the guitar
floated over our heads, visible in its perambulations to us all, and
supremely contemptuous of our accepted law of gravity. Voices were
heard, innumerable hands felt, and a great deal of badinage was shot
from the guns of our tricksy friends, out of the flesh : not perfectly
objectless jokes; some were very meaning ones. But detail would occupy
too much of your space.
We four people verify the truth of this statement. We were all in
possession of our natural senses, all after the average stamp of mortals,
not endowed with any Divine afflatus likely to carry us into sublunary
heights, pro tem., and then set us down under day-dreams and illusions,
but capable of enjoying a very agreeable hour or two with our invisible
friends, who seemed equally gratified with us.
Now, what do we want more from the physical phenomenon of
Spiritualism than “ proof palpable ” that mortal death is only a con¬
tinuance of life ? Why should we seek, out of the pale of certainty,
what cannot be established as facts %
As Serjeant Cox says, “ One established fact is a vast field opened to
the researches of psychology.” Out of the night of darkness these
facts, innumerable, have opened to myriads the light of day ; and had
not dark cabinets been invented, much folly and crime might have been
prevented. I, for one, ask Spiritualists to consider well the responsi¬
bilities they incur, and, if at all feasible, to do away with them.
Why not be content with a reasonable demand for phenomena which
shall be unquestionably free from collusion ?
Not until we do this shall we place one of God’s greatest revelations
on a firm footing, and present to the world indisputable phenomena.
  E. Gunyon.
WHAT ARE THE COMFORTS OF SPIRITUALISM ?
Sir,—As an inquirer into the phenomena of Spiritualism, it seems to
me very strange that its most ardent professors insist so little upon what
to me would be its greatest attraction; I mean, the belief it would
appear to encourage in a progressive future.
Those who doubt the continuance of any life after death are compara¬
tively few, and Spiritualism, in convincing them of a future, performs a
work small in comparison with the result, could it but bring comfort to
the thousands who yearn to know what is the life beyond the grave.
If Spiritualism could answer this question, however imperfectly, it would
acquire a force all but invincible, and draw its adherents, not from the
few of a scientific or philosophic mind, but from the many; for it would
bring to its ranks myriads of suffering human hearts.
In what does the sting of death consist ? In its separations ? No.
There are many bitterer sorrows. Partings more keenly felt than those
of death are bravely met and acquiesced in, are often sought: life is
full of such. Bnt death’s sting is something more. It is the bitter
uncertainty, or worse, the fearful torture of an orthodox belief in the
afterwards. To those who accept Christianity, as revealed in Bible
teachings, death means bliss to the believer, and utter, eternal damna¬
tion to those who, after a misspent life, die unrepentant.
Briefly, this is the lesson of the Christian Church. The Roman
Catholic, seeking refuge from a tenet so awful that it appears irrecon¬
cilable with any notion of a Father God, takes refuge in a purgatorial
belief equally adverse to the enlightened ideas of our age. For if a man
fail to work out his own salvation, it seems unreasonable to expect him
to obtain it through the efforts of his more prayerful friends.
The belief in a progressive future, if inculcated by Spiritualism, would
therefore appeal to every loving human heart. They are fortunate,
indeed, who have not seen the grave close over one dear to them by
every tie, when they know these lead a life very little compatible with
the joys of heaven, as understood by the orthodox, and who, at the
same time, it is terrible to think of as consigned to eternal punishment.
Orthodox religion leaves no alternative. Granting even the possibility
of a death-bed repentance, which is, after all, an anomaly thoroughly
inconsistent with what we know of the ordinary workings of Provi¬
dence, there are many who die suddenly, without time or place for
| repentance. "Well, where do they go ? That is the question. Or not
i so much that; for, after all, the where matters little; but, if they
| live, what are they about ? Human love, as we all know, is never
limited by the worthiness of its object. Indeed, it often seems that the
least worthy is the most loved.
Love once given cannot be recalled, and the deepest law of our nature
declares itself in this. Love forgives, condones, excuses, and, when
possible, gives a new trial. And man, made in God’s image, seeks in
his Maker the reflex of his own inherent qualities. No thinking mind
] accepts the possibility of eternal damnation ; rather than do so, men
shirk the question, and, even if they admit it in theory, reject it when
| it is brought home to them, and either seek to forget the lost altogether,
or to find comfort in the delusive hope of a death-bed repentance,
j Now, it appears to me to be here, if any where, that Spiritualism has its
work.
i If spirits communicate, would it not be to the purpose, and conducive
to the happiness of the many, to ascertain how far our orthodox notions
of heaven and hell are reconcilable with their experience ? If the
mediums who devote their time and medial qualities to materialisation
and other manifestations, which, after all, have only the one value of
proving the power of spirit over matter, would turn their energies in
the direction I have indicated, how much they might achieve!
I Philosophy and science have their value, but have they ever yet com¬
forted one broken heart ? How many mourn as they that are without
! hope ? Why ? Not because those they loved are dead, but because all
their religious prejudices prevent their contemplating the future of their
loved ones with comfort.
If life beyond the grave is probationary and progressive, half the
agony of the death-parting is over. Parents grieving for a dissolute son,
i or groaning in agony for a lost daughter; brothers and sisters parted by
250
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 22, 1878.
sin; all, in short, who have seen the grave close over an unworthy dear j >
one—who has not ?—might find comfort and hope. i j
To this, then, I would urge professors of Spiritualism. Bring the truths j j
of the spirit land—if such there be—home to the suffering hearts of ] >
the bereaved. Let those who scarce dare name their dead take heart, and j (
believe that in the enlightened spirit life they are now travelling towards | j
the light—seeing, it may be, with clearer vision the errors of their i )
earth life, and striving to attain that which in the world they missed, j (
To how many would such a belief bring truest balm ; nay, more—help |
and strength for the burden of life’s remaining days; faith in the possi- j )
bility of a better hereafter, and so strength to fight anew.
So might one fancy a new-born soul awakening in the spirit world, j j
and see it, like a hidden plant, put forth some tender shoot, which, j
striking upwards to the light, might once again renew its old vitality : ! \
not, perchance, in all the glory to which it once laid claim, but still j j
recognisable as the work of the Divine Hand, never to be wholly lost.
Let Spiritualism teach this, and its teaching will be accepted by thou- j (
sands,who, striving and toiling in this busy world of ours, scarce dare to i)
pause and weep, as, following some beloved and cherished friend to the j j
cheerless grave, they bitterly acknowledge that they find there no hope, j !
and dare not look beyond. J. E. Rees. })
PSYCHOLOGY. j (
Sir,—If psychology be what Mr. Serjeant Cox represents it to be, I (
am not surprised that the subject should be excluded from the debates I j j
of any society which values accuracy of thought and expression as an ) j
essential condition to its deliberations. j (I
In his address Mr. Cox gives us a definition of psychology which he m
declares to be f perfect.” “ It is,” he says, “ the science that investigates I) |
the forces by which the mechanism of man is moved and directed.” But j (i
heat and cold, and even a dose of medicine, “ are forces which move and i j |
direct the mechanism of man.” It is therefore evident that this “ perfect” j (j
definition requires to be enlarged, qualified, and corrected. Again, I j (j
should have thought that as a preliminary in the consideration of > I
psychology, it was essential to give an intelligent reader a very clear i j I
notion of what is meant by “ mind.” Let us see what Mr. Cox makes of j j i
this part of his subject. He contends that mind is “ the collective name j j j
given to the actions by which the soul expresses itself upon the j j j
external world through the mechanism of the brain and nerve-system, j {
Thus viewed, the mind is not a whole, but composed of parts, each part | j
having a distinct function.” According to this interpretation, it is not I (j
the mind which forms ideas, but the formation of ideas is the mind, j i
The mind is composed of parts, but these parts do not make a whole; ! j j
nevertheless, about twenty lines further on he assumes that the mind is (
“ a whole,” as he asks, “Does the whole mind act in every mental i j
operation ? ” j j
We are first told that the mind is “a collective name given to actions ; |
of the soulthat “ it is parts which do not form a wholeand then I I
in the next breath we are informed that “ it is a whole which acts.” j
Can any confusion be more bewildering ? |
On the subject of dreams, Mr. Cox remarks :—“ There is not a person j) I
in this room who, if dream was not as rare as clairvoyance, would not i i
be denounced as an impostor, and prosecuted as a rogue and a j j
vagabond.” j!j
I do not know under what law a clairvoyant runs the slightest risk j \
of being “prosecuted as a rogue and a vagabond;” but lest any of my j ) I
clairvoyant friends should be under any apprehension respecting their | j
safety after perusing Mr. Cox’s extra judicial utterances, I may inci- j j
dentally mention that clairvoyants are not liable to the most remote ) 5
chance of being prosecuted, unless they exercise their rare and peculiar j (!
gifts for money. They may, therefore, rest satisfied that they are at | j
perfect liberty, openly and garrulously, to discourse about their visions, | )!
as long as they do so gratuitously, without any fear of being dragged into j (
a police-court.
Mr. Cox asks a number of profound questions, to which he intimates j j
the answers must be sought in a study of psychology. But it appears to ! \ J
me that most of these answers must be supplied from the resources of I | j
religion, biology, anthropology, mental philosophy, physiology, pathology, | / J
anatomy, and medicine. If, therefore, it is necessary to master all these j (
sciences before we can solve the problems of psychology, as presented j | i
by Mr. Cox, the man who undertakes the task must be a paragon among ! |
human wonders. Mr. Cox thinks that he has baffled the naturalists, j (j
but he has only driven them to take shelter behind a more subtle j ) j
materialism. j j
Does he attempt the solution of any of his own problems 1 He does; ] j j
and I here extract his crowning demonstration:—“ For there is no death |) j
in nature, because there is no annihilation. It is only dissolution, j j
change, separation of particles, and reconstruction. No particle j j i
perishes. The material mechanism is resolved into its elements and ||
reappears.” If there be a soul in man that also cannot die, it must i (|
remain somewhere, under some condition of existence. According to m
this view, the soul may be dissolved, and its elements renewed in j
another form. The special, individual, personal immortality of the i j
soul is not distinctly maintained in Mr. Cox’s argument. i ) j
Surely we may believe in death without accepting the doctrine of anni- | (
hilation! What have the two ideas to do with each other ? Fancy Mr. 11
Cox wandering with his gardener in his grounds some fine day in July, j) j
and seeing a tree withered and without a leaf on it. “ That tree is j j
dead,” remarks the gardener. “ No, it isn’t,’’ replies Mr. Cox, | j I
“because it is not annihilated.” I leave the reader to imagine the ! j j
puzzled and inquiring look of the gardener. • i J
But I have a more serious charge to bring against the passage I have i i
just quoted, and against Mr. Cox’s psychological ideas in general, i j
They are a species of Pantheism, and in no way are they the slightest j i
advance upon the teachings of Aristotle, propounded more than two I j
thousand years ago! In fact, they are Aristotle, without his wisdom, i'
clearness, and philosophical insight. Cox upon Aristotle shall not be
my psychological text-book. The mind of man is never engaged in a
more profitless and wild task than that of attempting to analyse itself.
The only true psychology is to be found in the Bible. That divine book
solves every difficult problem concerning humanity which we may think
it worth while to solve, and every attempt to improve upon it, or dispense
with it, has hitherto been a failure. Theodore Ellis.
London, Nov. 17th, 1878.  
healing mediumship.
Sir,—Will you allow me a small space in your interesting paper,
that I may express my heartfelt gratitude to that wonderful clairvoyant
healer, Mrs. Anne Loomis, for her correct diagnosis of the disease
which has for the past four years and more baffled not only the most
skilful allopathic and homoeopathic physicians, but also four of the
most celebrated healers of the present day ?
For four years and more I have not known one moment free from
the agonising suffering gradually wearing me out, even to the almost
total loss of sight; but on the arrival of this god-gifted soul I was told
by my old spirit friend, Dr. Carrole Dunham, of New York, to write to
her, giving her the points of my case, which I did, and without fee,
mind. By return of post came not only a diagnosis, but remedies,
and, almost best of all, a warm-hearted sympathetic note, bidding me
not despair; she felt she could relieve me. In less than three weeks I
am not only able to leave my room, but to realise that I hold a
prompt check on any suffering that might arise.
I feel certain that were her power fully known thousands of poor,
suffering creatures, wasting their means and hopes on doctors, would
leave no moment of her time unoccupied. Will you allow me through
your paper to share with the suffering ones this boon to humanity ?
Would that I had the millions of an A. T. Stewart that I could by
more than words show my gratitude for the relief she has given me.
Charlotte Anderson.
Sunnyside, Bognor, November 16, 1878.
CLAIRVOYANCE USED TO DETECT A MURDERER.
CFrom The Religio-Philosophical Journal, Nov. 2nd.)
Many of our readers will doubtless remember the state¬
ments through the public press, that on the 3rd of September
Mary Stannard, a young woman residing in Madison town¬
ship, New Haven county, Conn., was found murdered, and
the subsequent arrest, examination, and discharge of the Rev.
H. H. Hayden, the Methodist minister in that neighbourhood,
who was accused of the crime.
The New York Herald, of Oct. 10th, contains a lengthy
statement of i( What a Clairvoyant saw in Trance,” through
which a clue to facts was furnished that warranted the
rearrest of Mr. Hayden, and has since caused his indictment
by the grand jury of New Haven county. We can only
briefly summarise the facts presented in the Herald with
reference to the practical application of clairvoyance in dis¬
closing the secret mysteries of crime.
Mr. James J. Hayes was retained as counsel by Mr. Charles
E. Stannard, the grand juror of Madison, to assist in working
up the case; and although an unbeliever in Spiritualism,
being a strict Catholic, he playfully remarked to Mr. Stannard,
“ There was mystery enough about the affair to warrant the
aid of a seer.” Mr. Stannard replied, i( It wouldn’t be the
first time I have used one. Some months ago I lost a gold
watch, and, having no trace of it, went to a clairvoyant, who
told me I would find it in the possession of a servant girl. I
drove to Madison depbt just as she was entering a car, and
charged her with the theft. She confessed on the spot, and
delivered up the stolen property.” Still jesting, Mr. Hayes
said, “ Suppose you try it again.” “ I will,” he replied ; (i I
will see him at once.”
The next morning, after Mr. Stannard had visited Dr. A.
Hunt, of Fair Haven, the clairvoyant, and obtained a
description from him of the circumstances and scene of the
murder, accompanied by Mr. Hayes, he drove to the place
to take observations. On their way, while Mr. Stannard
remained outside to hold the horses, Mr. Hayes went into the
house of the murdered girl to make inquiries about the
locality. The descriptions were precisely the same as Mr.
Stannard had received from Dr. Hunt, even to the two rocks
near where the tragedy was enacted—a seat or stile where
people were in the habit of sitting—and that within forty
feet of that stile was the exact spot where the body was
found ; also a description of the instrument used in the per¬
petration of the crime, and the distance from where the body
was lying to where it would be found.
The clairvoyant further stated that the crime was com¬
mitted by a minister; that he met her at the spring between
Nov. 22, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
251
their two houses in the forenoon, and arranged to meet her ;
at the Whip-poor-Will rook in the afternoon, and bring her !
some medicines to help her out of her troubles, in which he j
was implicated. [Mr. Hayden has since confessed meeting |
her at the spring.] Dr. Hunt said that he first struck her i
with a stone, and then cut her throat with his pocket knife,
on the blade of which a small quantity of blood would be
found. He said there would be none on the handle, as he
wrapped that with some clothing and a pocket handkerchief,
to prevent it getting bloody, and afterwards soaked them
with kerosene and burned them. When Mr. Hayes and Mr.
Stannard reached the spot, they found the place exactly as
Mr. Hunt had described, and Mr. Hayes remarked to Mr.
Stannard : y This Dr. Hunt has certainly described the place
with remarkable accuracy, but if I can get the stone, I shall
be satisfied that either he is what I call a first-class clair¬
voyant, if there be such a thing in existence, or is himself
the murderer of Mary Stannard.” Mr. Hayes’ narrative
continues : “(We shall find that stone,’ was the grand juror’s
reply, < not far distant. I’m sure of it.’ I followed him in
a westerly direction. The rest of the party did the same, one
of them remarking that they had looked all over the place
for some evidence of the crime without success. When we
had walked thirteen paces by our measurement, I caught
sight of a curiously shaped bit of rock, and at the same
instant a little boy exclaimed, * Why, there’s a stone that
looks as if it was bloody.’ I immediately said, ‘ Don’t
touch it, but observe the ground closely,’ for I intended to
mark it. I then picked up the stone in the presence of the
gentlemen, looked it over carefully, and made the remark,
(If this is not human blood, it is not blood at all.’ I
wrapped it in a clean white pocket handkerchief and brought
it away with me.”
h The stone somewhat resembled a shoemaker’s lapstone,
with a sharp edge which made the incised wound on the head
through the sun-bonnet. Dr. Jewett subsequently testified
in court that the edge of this stone fitted the hole in the
head.
Several distances given by the clairvoyant in his descrip¬
tion at his home were afterwards verified to an inch by actual
measurements by the county surveyor. Also Dr. Hunt’s
statements with regard to the time occupied in throwing the
wood, which Mr. Hayden claimed occupied him all the after¬
noon ; and the time required in going to and returning from
the Whip-poor-Will rock, from his swamp lot, where he was
throwing out the wood, was singularly verified. “ Mr.
Scranton, a gentleman sixty years of age, threw all the wood
in seven minutes that Mr. Hayden claimed occupied him the
entire afternoon.” Dr. Hunt also stated that i( powerful
friends would make every effort to save him, and leave
nothing undone to secure an acquittal. That the person
who was to try the accused party would have great personal
pressure brought to bear upon him, if there was the slightest
loophole for escape, and that the public prosecutors being
harassed in all their movements, a conviction would be equi¬
valent to a miracle.” So true was this that on his first ex¬
amination he was discharged.
f (In conclusion,” said Mr. Hayes, (i I repeat that both
Judge Harrison, the senior counsel, and myself, while always
sceptical in these matters and doubtful of the propriety of
placing dependence on the assertions of clairvoyants or
spiritual mediums, have both been impressed by the extra¬
ordinary proofs of the accuracy of the clairvoyant in the
present instance, evolved even by the defence in the pro¬
duction of the testimony of which we knew absolutely
nothing, including that of Rev. Mr. Hayden and his wife.
Even the counsel for the defence, Messrs. Samuel L. Jones
and L. M. Hubbard, who at first scoffed at the information
of a clairvoyant, finally acknowledged that there was some¬
thing wonderful in the revelations. Of course none of us
attempt to account for them.”
After writing out his interview with Mr. Hayes, the re¬
porter, in company with Mr. Hayes and several other gentle¬
men, visited Dr. Hunt, and had an interview with him.
Several questions were asked by the reporter, after which
the following transpired, which we give in his own words:
“Did Mr. Stannard ask you any question?”
“ I don’t think he interrupted me until after I told him
what I had seen. Sometimes I think 1 am under the re¬
flection of a person’s mind, but in this case I seemed to
realise that we were distinct and apart.”
i Had you ever been on the ground ? ”
“Never; if I have, I don’t know it.”
At this point there was a pause in the conversation,
during which the clairvoyant underwent a curious change.
He was sitting on the sofa with his head resting on his
hands in a reflective mood. At first the hands worked
nervously, and the fingers twitched, and then in less than
half a minute there semed to be an involuntary twitching of
the muscles of the chest, accompanied by an occasional quick
catch of the breath, such as one occasionally observes in a
case of nightmare. Neither of the persons present spoke a
word, but recognised the fact that the clairvoyant was under
the influence of one of his peculiar spiritual charms. After
a minute or two he said slowly, and as if every word were
studied—we did not interrupt him from beginning to end,
and the language is literal, being taken in shorthand—“ I
saw that I was taken into a country place. I saw woods,
a road, corn and potato fields; I saw a spring and a big
rock. And this man—Oh! this man! (The hands of
the medium struggled convulsively over his face as if to
shut out some horrible vision.) He was at first alone and
quite a distance from this place; he came nearer; then
there were two ; one of them was a female ; they sat down ;
at first the conversation was quiet; the woman became
earnest; the man became angry; he picked up a stone; I
saw it; it was sharp. [The hands of the speaker again
trembled as they rested over the eyes.] He struck her down;
there was something of a struggle; it was not severe;
it was done very quick—very quick; he threw it
away, but there was blood, blood on the stone; I saw
the woman on the ground ; she lay still; he cut her
throat with a sharp instrument ; then the man took a
circuitous route ; he had on a slouch hat; I think it was of
straw; a checkered shirt and dark clothes; as they looked
to me a sort of dark colour; he went to the brook or spring
and washed his hands; he had a knife; it looked like
a pocket-knife, which he washed in the water; then I saw
him walk on. It appeared singular that such a circumstance
should occur in a place like that. One would not be looking
for it at all. There seemed to be a good deal of aggravation
and excitement between this man and that woman. Now,
who the man was, of course I do not know; nor do I know
who the woman was, but there had been quite an intimacy
between them. Trouble appeared to be growing out of that
intimacy, and the man showed a strong determination to
cover it up—that is, to prevent exposure.” (All this spoken
very deliberately, as if the words themselves were painful in
finding utterance.)
The writer asked the clairvoyant:—
“ Have you an idea of the source from which this intelli¬
gence comes ?”
“Oh, yes,” was the reply. “ If I should be told that I
were to be hanged next Friday, I would get ready. I don’t
think there ever was a man more sceptical than I once was
with reference to this spiritual question, and for fifteen
years I was testing the subject, but I look upon spirits now
just as I look upon you. They have simply got out of the
house they used to live in. The only thing I want to know
is that I have a truthful spirit.”
“ Do you depend on one of a number ?”
“ On but one—a gentleman. He was a New Haven man,
a physician, and, I am told, an excellent physician. I never
saw him in my life, and yet I depend on him for many of
my cures. His diagnoses are curiously correct.”
(i Have you any objection to mentioning his name ?”
“ None; it is Dr. Brewer. He died a number of years ago
in Middletown, I think.”
It will be seen by the foregoing that more than one was
hinted at by Dr. Hunt, as being engaged in the case, when
| he said : “ Of course there is a powerful influence seeking to
I protect the participants—or participant, from the charge—
| and shield what would necessarily reflect upon the moral
I influences of those teachings that are in this case represented
] by the guilty.”
Since that interview some of those “positive circumstantial
evidences ” have come to light, by the finding of arsenic in
the stomach of the murdered girl, and tracing the purchase
252
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 22, 1878.
of arsenic by Mr. Hayden, in Middletown, the morning
before the murder. Dr. White in his microscopic examina¬
tion has found the blood globules on the stone, on the sun-
bonnet, and on the knife, to agree in their measurements.
On these and other evidences the Grand Jury have found
a true bill against Mr. Hayden. Another party accused of
participation in the crime has also been arrested and lodged
in jail.
We wrote to Mr. Hayes, inquiring if the facts were
correctly stated in the W. Y. Herald, and could be endorsed
by him as true. In reply to which we have received the
following letter:—
Mr. Editor,—I am not a Spiritualist or believer in Spiritualism ; I
am a Roman Catholic. The Herald statement is true. I will make
oath any time to the truth of the article. I am utterly astonished at
the revelations made by Dr. Hunt, The Herald reporter was dumb¬
founded at some things he witnessed while Hunt was in his clairvoyant
state. You may rely on the Herald article. James J. Hates.
THE POACHER’S WIDOW.
The following is the conclusion of the Rev. Charles Kingsley’s poem on the
widow, whose husband, a poacher, had been shot by gamekeepers :—
“ I am long past wailing and whining,
I have wept too much in my life,
I’ve had twenty years of -pining,
As an English labourer’s wife.
“ A labourer in Christian England,
Where they cant of a Saviour’s name,
And yet waste men’s lives like the vermin,
For a few more brace of game.
“ There’s blood on your new foreign shrubs, squire ;
There’s blood on your pointer’s feet;
There’s blood on the game you sell, squire;
And there’s blood on the bread you eat J
“ You have sold the labouring man, squire,
Body and soul to shame,
To pay for your seat in the House, squire,
And to pay for the feed of your game.
“ You made him a poacher yourself, squire,
When you’d give neither work nor meat;
And your barley-fed hares robbed the garden
At our starving children’s feet:
“ When packed in one reeking chamber,
Man, maid, mother, and little ones lay;
While the rain pattered in on the rotting bride-bed
And the walls let in the day ;
“ When we lay in the burning fever,
On the mud of the cold clay floor,
Till you parted us all for three months, squire,
At the cursed workhouse door.
“We quarrelled like brutes, and who wonders ?
What self-respect could we keep,
Worse housed, than your hacks and your pointers,
Worse fed than your hogs and your sheep!
“ Our daughters with base-born babies
Have wandered away in their shame;
If your misses had slept, squire, where they did,
Your misses might do the same.
“ Can your lady patch hearts that are breaking
With handfuls of coal and rice,
Or by dealing out flannel and sheeting
A little below cost price ?
“ You may tire of the gaol and the workhouse,
And take to allotments and schools,
But you’ve run up a debt that will never
Be paid us by penny-club rules.
“ In the season of shame and sadness,
In the dark and dreary day,
When scrofula, gout, and madness
Are eating your race away ;
“ When to kennels and liveried varlets
You have cast your daughters’ bread,
And, worn out with liquor and harlots,
Your heir at your feet lies dead:
“ When your youngest, the mealy-mouthed rector,
Lets your soul rot asleep to the grave,
You will find in your God the protector
Of the free man you fancied your slave.’’
She looked at the tuft of clover,
And wept till her heart grew light;
And at last, when her passion was Over,
Went wandering into the night.
But the merry brown hares came leaping,
Over the uplands still,
Where the clover and corn lay sleeping.
On the side of the white chalk hill.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, who has been on a visit to Torquay,
will return to London early next week.
Marriages in Heaven.—The Swedenborg Society says that Swedenborg
“shows that sex is essentially of the soul, and is therefore indestructible;
that consequently a man lives a man, and a woman lives a woman after
death; and since it was ordained from creation that the woman should
be for the man, and the man for the woman, and thus that each should
be the other’s, and since that love is innate in both, it follows that there
are marriages in heaven, as well as on earth. Marriage in heaven is
the union of two into one mind. In man the understanding is predo¬
minant, in woman the will; but in the marriage of minds there is no
predominance, for the will of the wife becomes also the will of the
husband, and the understanding of the husband becomes that of the wife,
because each loves to will and think as the other wills and thinks, and
thus they will and think mutually and reciprocally. Hence their con¬
junction ; so that in heaven two married partners are not called two, but
one angel. When this conjunction of minds descends into the lower
principles which belong to the body, it is perceived and felt as love, and
that love is conjugal love. It is almost needless to say that according to
Swedenborg’s teaching, marriages on earth are at this day entered upon
so generally, from merely worldly and sensual motives, and with so little
regard to similarity of mind, that not in all cases are they maintained
and perpetuated in the other life. Married partners commonly meet
after death, but if internal differences of mind are manifested they sepa¬
rate. If, however, they have led good lives, fitted partners are found
for them, and a true marriage takes place, to last to eternity. True
conjugal love can only exist between two, and in polygamists and
adulterers it is utterly destroyed. It is the foundation love of all good
loves, and is essential chastity. The children of a true marriage derive
from their parents, the sons a faculty of becoming wise, the daughters a
faculty of loving what wisdom teaches. In the strict sense of the word,
in heaven they neither marry nor are given in marriage. Pairs are born
in the world. Space and circumstances may divide them, but being
part of one whole, there is a continual longing for union. Their meeting
and recognising each other in heaven are only the completion of what in
essentials had been effected before upon earth.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
H. M.—Please omit information about mediums’ charges from your communi¬
cations.
B.—Please re-write your letter, leaving out the commercial matters.
0. W.—The ticket received, but the date of the meeting is not stated on it.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens,
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at s'eances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for tho
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand)
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
1878,
THE SPIRITUALIST
m
Nov. 22,
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Bepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING- SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
hook is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no douht as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Hannonia .
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III.
The Reformer. ,, IV. „ . •
The Thinker. ,, V. „ . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . •
Death and the After-Life ....
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age .
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence , .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . •
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers •
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology . . .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
. 16 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 0
. 7 0
. 6 0
.76
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . ... .
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieitcalisi Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds ......
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ....
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ....
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ....
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-xun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China ito India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam.
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . .
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A .
Awas-I-Bindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges,by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. '. 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S'anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... . ... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
24 0
2 6
6 0
10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced iy Spirits, and
SlMTJLTANEOTTSIiY WITNESSED BY THE AUTHOB AND OlHEK
Obsebyebs in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free le. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.G.
Or of Messbs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Pbess.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications Alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of it priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestatious of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary eoncomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapteb I The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson-—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, P.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Bane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These twp, volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnagejpaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London; W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges ,
The new book by
| M.A. (OXON), ’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses ;—
1. Of Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken..
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vayi G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—.
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. It. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Itomaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
HI From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation ol
the Writing:— •
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hoops, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. It. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monek were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject ol the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—^Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumshipof
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakot—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peokeraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period* By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treheme)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M. A., Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelina Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
.Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kisllngbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthidox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Predicfion.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalnra
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harris an—
Meditation and the Volos of Conscience. By Alex. Gaidar—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism
By Lisette Makdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe
Wallace, F.R.G. S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 fm' Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should he multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will he
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age/
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST
Nov. 22, 1878.
NEW ERA.
HOW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE-
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
T ORD BEAOONSEIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death see a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
I NO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps the blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork of mala¬
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the time
will eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in all probability, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, and in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.”—European Mail, Nov. X,
1877.
WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
1 “Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Lady writes: —
I “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.” • *
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
N THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
AS A'
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as'the juices of fruits from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
In which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invaluable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise.  
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent torm.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
E7NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
-X products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease:—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
Inever anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
crless, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
nut very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all my friends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facts, of
which you can make whatever use you please I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “ W. B. Beckett.”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—End’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Bolt Agent ror •Pans—PHARMACIE DE BERAL. 14, RUE DE
LA PAIX.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton and the
Author.
' Contents.
Part X.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacahac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—10. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“No:one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Itussell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are ,in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the_volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.” .
From T7ie Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...*How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. ' Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.”
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a oast of Its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor ana Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads," but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them."] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in conneotion with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will: and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State ot Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—^Transference of Senses and of Pain.
'CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—Tlie Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S iiritual
World.
CHAPTER vm: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of i’nrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Oases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—^Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witchcratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the SuWeet—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—^Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Cdylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcrart—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—^Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Studentr-Opposition to he Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Oases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XlII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Tiine
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIVDirect Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XVTrance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridgb & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
In the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, Londc n, E.O.
