UegisSbred as a Newspaper.
SK® joU^KSi<
jC0ttmjctib toil^ S^iritnalism In feat Iritaia.
No. 362. (Vol. XY.—No. 5.) LONDON! FRIDA.Yj AUGUST 1, 1879. Published Weekly; Price. Twopence.
SANITAS, the Health Giver;
Or, the Pine Forest at Some.
SANITAS IS SOLD IN FLUID, POWDER AND SOAPS.
SANITAS FLUID, Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d. in Bottles. By the Gallon at 20s., and 5s. It is the best fluid disinfectant, preventative of
contagion, and preservative of Meat, Fish, &c. Applied to the Bath, it improves the health by purifying the tissues and pores of the
skin, giving natural beauty and colour to the complexion.
SANITAS TOILET POWDER in Is. Boxes is far superior to any of the so-called Violet Powders ; it is perfectly free from all
mineral and poisonous ingredients j improves the complexion, and softens the skin.
SANITAS TOILET SOAP is a beautiful transparent soap, containiflg a large percentage of Sanitas. It effectually softens and
improves the skin, and gives natural health and colour to the complexion.
SANITAS HOUSEHOLD SOAPS, sold in 6d. and 4d. Bars, is excellently suited for cleaning and disinfection, whitens and
purifies linen goods.
TOILET SANITAS FLUID, in Is., and 2s. 6d. Bottles, is a beautifully perfumed Fluid, having all the properties of the ordinary
Sanitas in a more agreeable and fragrant form. Specially adapted as a mouth wash, and for spraying rooms, use, in finger glasses, &c.
SANITAS DISINFECTING POWDER.
SANITAS TOOTH POWDER, and the several productions of the Company, to be had at the
^.iri Ltn?ri Company's .A.g'enoy,
4, MILDMAY GROVE, HIGHBURY, LONDON, N,
CA UTION,—All Articles bear the Company's Trade Mark and Seal, without which hone are genuin’e.
Chemists and the Trade Supplied.
Now Ready,
The THIRD EDITION of VoU I. qf MR, SERJEANT COX'S
lECHMISI OF XM.
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Vol. It., completing the work, and treating of “ The Mechanism in Action,’;
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published,
In One Volume, a Series of Fine Stories, Entitled
BETWEEX THE LI&HTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs, Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Rook to Spiritualists.
TAXES XALTBY
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majestys Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 1, 1879.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY’ OF GkEAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FEANCIS K. MtfNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KAEDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIEITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth- Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863); r From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trttbner and Co., London,
, Just Published.
SPIRIT - IDENTITY.
“ M.A. (Oxon.).”
Cloth 8vo. Eed Edges, Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Eeligious Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : its Place and Function
—Eeligion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism—The Philosophy of Inspiration and
Eevelation—Christianity : its Place and Human Elements.
London: Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published,
Price 2s. 6d.* Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
DR. NICHOLS’ food of health.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &c.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &c.
JUsT Published.
THE EIBST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By william h. habrison.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British MttseUhDstf London, W.C,
MR. 0. E.--WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT "STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends..
N.B.—Mr. Williams’s temporary address during
alterations in the above premises is 13, Milman-street,
W.O. (corner of new Ormond-street).
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At home every day except Snnday),
Will lecture at Steinway [Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
'Will Lecture every
Tuesday Evening of August,
UNDER SPIRIT INFLUENCE,
AT
Tavistock House, Tavistock Square.
Admission Free. Collection taken. To begin at
Eight o’clock precisely.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING,
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
164, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Church (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes,all pangs,
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the band.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions,
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MRS. LOUIE M. LOWE,
23, UPPER BAKER STREET, LONDON.
At home from two till five o’clock daily, except Sundays
MRS. A. KIMBALL, “
SOMNAMBULIC MESMERIST AND MEDIUM,
Receives daily from 11 to 5 (except Sunday), at 26,
Montague-street, Russell square, London. 
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o'clock. 173,
■ Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Mediam-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m.
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
\J DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Magnetised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIRVOYANTE and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair ; sex and
age required. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism,
Specialities. At home from 12 till 5 p.m. Patients
treated at their homes when desired. 99, Park-street,
Grosvenor-square, London, W.
Folkestone.—comfortable Lodg¬
ings on moderate terms. References to Spirit¬
ualists can be given. E. Newman, 11, St. Miekael’a-
terrace, Folkestone.
Jt to Iftf#f to Soto## a#d Etoos #1 SpititoaUsm.
No. 362,—VOJL.UJVIE fIFTEEN J NujVIBER FIVE,
IjOISTDOM, FRIDAY, ATJGMJST 1st, 1879.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1889.
PtJBLlsHED Weekly. Pbxcs Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Eree Within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Edreign Postal Union.
EDITED Bt WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
39, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
withiheir Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia, Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Bev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.B.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adel berth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. P. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.B.S,
Miss Florence MaiTyat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A,, LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.B.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Boyal,Paris; 2,Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa NaziOnale, Naples; 37, Bue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 81, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne; Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
rpHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Wvw&pwpex
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C,
THE RELIGION OF SPIRITUALISM.
BY ISABEL DE S T E I G E B.
No. HI.—(Conclusion.)
When we look philosophically and historically upon
all the gods who have had their time upon this grain of
sand which we call the world—when we see glimpses of
other divine ideas in the millions of worlds round the
suns of the universe, we arrive at the idea that the
supreme God sends to all points in infinity Ambassadors
to symbolise His sovereignty. In one place the
Ambassador is called Yishnu, to speak to the Indians ;
Zeus, with all his splendid court, to speak to the
Greeks; Mahomet, to speak to the Turks; Jesus, Son
of God, the gentlest, the wisest, the greatest of all God’s
Ambassadors, to reveal God in man.
“Thanks to Jesus, man has refound his greatness
through his humility.” This is according to Ars6ne
Houssaye, in his book Des Destinies de VAme ; and I do
not think it will be difficult to find minds who fully
endorse his sentiments. This book is one of the features
of the present times—it is a protest for the existence of
the soul against materialism.
I think it is now the time, before 1 end this paper,
for me to explain what I mean by my expressions
“Christianity” and “orthodoxy,” and, lastly, what I
mean by a “ Spiritualist.”
By my term Christianity it is needless to say that I
am referring to the ordinary Christianity as taught by
the churches—Roman, Greek, or Protestant—since the
death of Christ. It is extraordinarily different from
that taught by “the Ambassador from God,” to use
Houssaye’s expression. The literal following of Christ’s
words would have, however, brought about quite an
altered state of things to those which now exist. An
absolutely literal imitation of Christ’s life is an im¬
possibility. What we are concerned in chiefly are the
teachings and actions of Christ. Now, it is perfectly
clear that we have almost lost the esoteric side of this
teaching, and it is equally clear that we do not follow
the exoteric side. The Christianity which has been
spread through Christendom is not purely Christ-taught;
it is chiefly men-taught, and has descended into theo¬
logical systems, which, if anything, drag us down from
Christ, rather than help us to rise to Him. Were it not
that multitudes of persons have risen beyond and above
the religion of the day, and that the progress of mankind
has always steadily gone on in a certain sense, the records
of Christianity would present some very black pages in the
world’s history; and I conceive it is the work of Spirit¬
ualism to bring back the wandering soul of Christianity.
So anxious have Christians been to glorify the character
of their master, Christ—an unnecessary work for man to
do—that they have done what Christ never did; that is,
they have limited the power of One whom Christ called
His Master and Father, and they would put all soul out
of the universe now that Christ is not bodily in it.
This has been the “materialising theology” that
Christianity has induced, and it does not come from
Christ, but comes from men. |
50
It has been taught by theological writers that revelation |
has ceased, and the logical following of this teaching has
been naturally the materialism of the present day. No I
doubt this process has been required in the wisdom of j
Infinity for some perfecting of our powers. We cannot
say—but we do know one thing, and that is that this
materialised Christianity is not enough for us; and as a !
proof we point to the want of vitality in religion, and ]
the dissatisfied, and unsatisfactory state of humanity j
when, in spite of the teaching of Christ to ulove our j
neighbours as ourselves,” we are almost as far as ever j
from it practically. It is true that over a great portion j
of the face of the globe there is a wider spirit of tolera¬
tion in religious matters. This is a phase in the world’s j
history, and does not belong to Christianity alone. By j
Christianity I mean, therefore, the religion practised by |
all who use the name of Christ as their head, and natur- |
ally in using the word “ orthodox ” I mean the party domi- j
nant by a majority of numbers or power in any church
in Christendom. The unorthodox must always be the j
minority, and the term does not necessarily decide that j
one or other is right or wrong, and may apply to all j
forms of Christian worship, whether Roman or Protestant, j
The people who dissent from generally-received views are
naturally those people who take the things of religion so 11
much to heart that they have a distinct courage of their P
own to declare their persuasions, if they are not those j,
entertained by their leaders. The mass follow their
leaders; the few think for themselves. The orthodox |'
may be right, or the unorthodox may be right. Who |
can really know ? | Only God can decide. So we must j |
rest in charity with each other on that account, but we jj
must have terms, nevertheless, of some kind. The ]jj
unorthodox^ i.e., those who are not content with the h
Christianity of the day, are those who will welcome the j'
revival of spirit, and who will see through the vista of jj
Spiritualism the light they are seeking for shedding its rays j <
on the cold religion of the day—the religion which, unless j j
reformed by an influx of a spiritual nature, must surely j <
die, killed by our own hands. It will not, however, die—• j <
no religion perishes; it only becomes superseded by a j
fresh revelation of God’s power, when the power of the ]
previous emanation is exhausted. This power is now j >
exhausted—not, however, because the source is dry; but j /
because we cease to go to the Fountain.
The materialising process has reached the point at |)
Which it is not at all good for us to halt, and yet we are j \
idly waiting and speculating this way and that way, j j
instead of working for, and with, and through the powers j(
of our souls. The time will come, if we leave our souls i)
alone, and if we let them vapourise into our bodies, i)
that even the spiritless form of Christianity which we j)
have now amongst us will fall away. As it is, we are j
all undecided and divided, and because of our very |(
indecision and division we let things alone, and call it jj
“ religious toleration,” whereas it is, in fact, religious if
indifference. ' jj
From time to time, however, there are always to be j
traced the footsteps on “the sands of time” of people j\
who have not lived in vain, or who are still living and j
not in vain. These, whether through the beauty of j<
their lives, through their love of God, and of humanity n
as proceeding from God, leave precious records of their j (
saintly lives; or whether through their noble deeds and j j
works, whether exemplified through science, philosophy, i
or art, all those whose lives are marked out from the K
mass of mankind I place on one side. Under whatever j j
religious dispensation they might be born, these minds
would always have been as white stones raised up to (
build the altar to Divinity. Their characters and /
circumstances must necessarily, however, have been
Aug. 1, 1879.
acted upon by Christianity, cda va sans dire ; but these
people I do not include. When speaking of the influence
of Christianity in Christendom, I refer to the mass of
so-called Christian humanity; and certainly this mass
is still at so low a spiritual level as to fully justify the
feeling which so many have at the present time, that
unless we have some vivifying element introduced into
the Christian religions of to-day, theology is becoming
powerless to stem the progress of materialism and
scepticism, or to affect the actions of man as it professes
to do. If that day should come when religion sinks
under the government of materialism, it will be accom¬
panied by the utter decline of Christendom as a power
in the history of the world.
Without spirit we should descend to the level of
matter; and matter without spirit, if there could be such
a thing, would be a mass of inert atoms. Of course, this
is pursuing the image to a logical but ultimate goal far
away in the distance.
This, of course, is not the wish nor desire of all who
love this world, as the place in which we are placed by
God’s will; and as active husbandmen of His garden it
is our duty to work to avert such a calamity.
A Spiritualist is, I conceive, one who thoroughly
believes in the spirit world being in constant relation
with this; who does not believe that revelation is
ended; one who is cordially opposed to materialism and
to many theological doctrines, both of to-day and of the
last few centuries; one who sees in the studies of
theosophy and kindred sciences avenues heavenward.
But I shrink from describing what all spiritually inclined
people know full well; in any case, a Spiritualist should
be a term used only in the widest sense at present.
It is, of course, one thing to profess and another thing
to be. To profess Christianity and to follow Christ are
two mightily different things. To profess Spiritualism
and to be a Spiritualist are equally different. They are
broad terms, Spiritualism and Spiritualist, but useful,
nevertheless, for in both can we include members of
any religion. The future will bring a little more order
and arrangement in the present chaos.
Supposing that some observing Jews had taken the
trouble to save the wine that we are told was made from
water by Christ—supposing that they had taken the
trouble to have it analysed, according to the science of
the time, and it was proved that it was veritably wine,
and that, on the other hand, responsible persons could
swear that it was previous to the miracle unadulterated
water; supposing all this was put upon record. Sup¬
posing, also, that the doctors of the day positively swore
to the previous blindness of the beggar and his subse¬
quent cure. No doubt it would have caused great
sensation, and would have been the subject of great
discussion; but can we suppose that these facts alone,
unaccompanied by the loving, enlightening words of
Jesus, and His touching words to His disciples, promising
them His Spirit, would have had much effect in spreading
Christianity 1 None at all. Without the contact of
spirit with spirit no new birth and spiritual illumination
can come forth.
So it is now. There is quite sufficient evidence to
prove the fact of supernatural power and of the reality
of most of the so-called spiritual phenomena; but the
cognisance of these truths will not spread Spiritualism,
and, alone, will not in reality make one pure, true
Spiritualist.
What must be is that coincident with our acceptance
of the a b c of Spiritualism, as exemplified in our
ordinary and most crude seances, shall come the convic¬
tion in men’s and women’s souls of what is called, com¬
monly speaking, the supernatural—the conviction of the
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug 1, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
51
link between heaven and earth; and, consequently, the
uplifting of the soul to the Source of Light with such a [
confident belief in the spiritual world that the answer j
infallibly comes. A Spiritualist is one who takes j’
Christ’s promise of spiritual gifts as one literally to be j ■
fulfilled. A Spiritualist is one who recognises the |
divinity of the soul; therefore, its right to aspire to f
God. He or she is one who truly understands that the j1
body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, and that, there- | J
fore, this temple has a right to the fullest understanding }
of its requirements to protect its divine inmate by !'
keeping it in perfect order, using and not abusing it. j!
A Spiritualist in the true sense of the word—and of j1
such only am I speaking—will, in course of time, find it j)
a far greater pleasure to enjoy the culture of the soul I'
than any bodily sensations : by soul I mean the spark of j'
divinity in us, not alone the Intelligence which recog- k
nises the Divinity. This is, of course, the Spiritualism n
of the future. We have to work for it. At present it is i!
the bubbling and heaving of the well before the fountain 11
springs forth; but if we wait, and pray, and work, and I
don’t get disgusted, or have not sufficient courage or j<
faith because there is so much of the earth earthy about f1
the profession of Spiritualism, the angel will surely come jj
and heal our sores and our bruises, and give us strength |<
to go home. It is extremely easy to find fault with the i
present result of Spiritualism; just as easy as it was for j <
the learned Jews, who only saw a small sect of compara- jl
tively ignorant and rather “common people,” to look j<
upon the Christians of the day, and say they did not see, | <
as far as present results, any such wonderful signs of the ,||
superiority of the new ideas. They had Moses and the |<
prophets, and did not see the need of more; and the Chris- :| >
tians did not by any means at all times, then as now, j<
bear out the weight of their aspirations or spiritual claims. !<
Nor does the movement in humanity, called to-day the j)
Spiritualist movement, by any means always justify its 1
claims either. Those, however, who see the Spirit of
God through it all, and who try to follow the clue now j<
given, are Spiritualists; it matters not what theological p
school they have or do profess (most people, as a rule, jj
simply adopt the one their fathers and mothers taught j<
them). j)
From little things we must go to greater, and the |<
“John King” seances of to-day may be, who can tell, the K
humble means of inaugurating real Spiritualism in to-day’s I)
history. Ridicule has potent powers in exterminating K
feeling; but it cannot exterminate truth. i
It rests upon us, however, whether we are capable of U
bearing the truth, whether we open our minds to the K
influx of spiritual life now waiting for us, or whether we j)
are content to be as we are, and live upon what we K
have got. . j, i)
If we do so, can we promise ourselves, and be very j)
sure of the fact, that we shall have spiritual prosperity, n
and that Christianity, as exemplified by the few, will be \)
the Christianity of all; and that materialism (I wont R
say atheism—it is too incredible a thing to believe in) jj
will take to its wings and fly, and that men will be full jj
of love and peace with one another, and the earth full j)
of love to God and man ? Are these the state of things fl
towards which the signs of the times point? I think j)
not. Do we not see that as our intellectuality and force j)
of reason increase, our faith, as a mere extra as it were, K
must perish, and that if we deny the power of spirit, H
now we must end by denying it in the past ? We must !/
establish the power and truth of the so-called miraculous I (
now, or the results will surely be that as faith without j
reason is certainly dying out, each generation will take R
us farther away from God; the mystery of life and the jj
tragedy of death will neither be solved nor changed. v|
Now is our opportunity; and again I venture to say, if
we will fearlessly and thankfully press on with our
intellects in full working order, and our hearts thankful
for all spiritual blessing, we shall ere long arrive at that
haven which Christianity is leading us to, when religion
will not be only faith in the past, but knowledge for the
present and a certainty of the future.
THE MIDDLE AGE VIEW OF MIRACLES.
It is a sad history of misplaced faith and misdirected
energy. There had been propagated throughout Chris¬
tendom one pattern of sanctity for the three preceding
centuries. The life of each saint reproduced with slight
variations the austerities and miracles of his predecessors.
Miracles were expected as the endowments of a life of
austerity as naturally as the ordinary actions of other
men. What men expect they can generally find, or per¬
suade themselves they have found; and the stories which
reach the recluse himself, of strange influences which
have gone forth from him, quickly persuade him that he
is not as other men, but one of the sacred band on whose
bidding angels wait. But, indeed, in that age fasting was
regarded as a dynamic in the spiritual world, potent to
effect almost any object. It is noted of Adamnan that he
had been fasting immersed in a river, against a certain
potentate who had wronged him, but there was no result,
for his adversary protected himself by fasting also. The
saint at last prevailed by throwing the sinner off his
guard, so that his own unresisted fast could work out its
full effect against him. How much of the Gospel of
Christ infused its healing power amidst this mass of rank
superstition it is not easy to say. We can only call to
mind the word which assures us that when the “ wood,
hay, and stubble ” of man’s addition shall be consumed
by the fire of God’s presence, the foundation will remain,
and the silver and gold and precious marbles built upon
it shall endure. So may it be with many a poor, self¬
torturing soul, which, after all, with however much doubt¬
fulness, was really resting on Christ.
It is difficult for an Englishman of the nineteenth
century to form an accurate judgment of the condition of
his forefathers twelve centuries ago. Probably no race
now living on the earth is precisely in the same stage of
civilisation as they were then. The advanced races have
risen higher in the scale, the degraded have dropped
lower and lower in savageness. We can, therefore, only
ask, without attempting too close a parallel, what would
be the ordinary developments of the Christianity of New
Zealand or Madagascar apart from trained and educated
European influence ? And how far would the traces of
old superstitions linger among them ? And, in fact, with
what amount of completeness and with what freedom
from relapse, are idolatrous ideas now extirpated in the
most successful missions ? Such considerations of ex¬
perience as these ought to be in our minds when we
attempt to form a judgment on the condition of English
Christianity in the seventh century.—Boulibee’s History of
the Church of England.
“Dr. E. Loewemthal, of Rue Roiheihouart 36, Paris,” writes
that he wishes to establish a central office in Europe, to prosecute
research and collect statistics in relation to thaumatology, and
that he intends to take steps to convoke a Council to draw up a
constitution for the Alliance Spiritualiste Universelle, He will
be glad to receive communications on the subject from the readers
of The Spiritualist. What experience has Dr. Loewenthal had
in Spiritualism, and what special facilities can he give for the
furtherance of his object ?
52
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 1, 1879.
PRESS OPINIONS OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE. rj
(From ltThe Graphic" of last week.)
Under the title of Comment se font les Miracles en j)
dehors de VEglise (M. Dreyfous: Paris), M. Wilfrid de j (
Fonvielle, who in an earlier work had treated of miracle- j)
mongers patronised by the Church, invites us now to k
examine from a common-sense point of view workers of n
wonders, on whom the Church looks askance, mesmerists j)
and table-turners, fasting girls, and performers of strange j(
cures, mediums endowed with psychic force, untiers of j)
sealed knots, &c., till, passing through the intermediate i (
stages of those who proclaim that space has four dimen- j ^
sions, and that there is a geometry unknown to Euclid, ! /
we reach again the solid ground of useful invention in k
the more real wonders of the microphone and the tele- i)
phone-—wonders, by the way, received at first by the |)
Academie des Sciences with far greater suspicion than had j\
been displayed in the case of Mesmer and the mag- j;
netisers. M. de Fonvielle, who has added to the attain- ; (
ments of the man of science considerable acquaintance |)
with the technique of the modern conjurer, can tell us j(
much of the way in which these marvels are performed, I >
and of the adventures of the chief practitioners, from !)
Mr. Home to the village schoolmaster, whom the credu- j s
lous adored under the nom de guerre of Allan Kardec. j)
His little volume is a welcome addition to the ever- | (
amusing literature of popular delusions.
From quaint old Glanvil’s Sadducismus Triumphatus j)
to the Psychic Studies of Madame Sophie Aksakof, there | (
is no book about apparitions but seems welcome to the j)
robust faith of Mr. W. H. Harrison, of whose Spirits Before j)
Our Eyes (W. H. Harrison), Yol. L, on “ Apparitions of |s
the Living or the Dying”—Yol. II. on “Scientifically |)
Evolved f apparitions of “ the So-called Dead ” must be I (
waited for a little longer—now lies before us in its bright j >
blue cover. As a collection of ghost stories it is fairly | (
interesting, though not unfrequently the apparition and •;)
its presumed motive seem hardly of sufficient importance | /
for reasonable men to “make a note of.” It is also is
neatly bound and neatly printed.
While Mr. W. H. Harrison, in his love of the mar- j
vellous, scarcely requires stronger proof of the genuine- ! s
ness of a ghostly visitor than would have seemed desir- j)
able even to the credulity of an Aubrey or a Glanvil, j j
Mr. Serjeant Cox, of whose Mechanism of Man (Longman I)
and Co.) we have now Vol. II., on “ The Mechanism in j<
Action,” declares, on the other hand, that of all the |j
stories of apparitions he has known—and these we may 11
easily guess cannot have been few—not one would have I s
borne the test of judicial investigation. Yet Mr. Cox, 1)
as he leads us on from the examination of our state in j)
sleep and dreams to problems of artificial somnambulism j)
and psychic force, lays even harder trial on our faith. | <
One point at least—the constant assertion that the wit- I j
nesses of these latter wonders were “ practical and expe- . |)
rienced/’ “honest and truthful men,” and that the l(
experiments were made in the houses of personal friends, I j
where “collusion, confederacy, mechanism, &c., were l(
impossible ”—might, we think, be less insisted on. It is n
scarcely fair to the reader, and we doubt if it would be I)
legal evidence. At all events it suggests the retort that j(
such phenomena of “levitation” as those in which a |!
“ stout baronet ” was lifted by invisible agency, “ chair j j
and all,” upon a high table, and a “heavy oak dining- J]
room chair brought from the other side of the room and | <
placed upon the table at which we were seated,” while j |
“ a hand-bell circled round my head ringing furiously,” |
&c., would be much more satisfactory if they occurred, <
not at a friend’s house, but—-shall we say 1 at the Mid- !'
dlesex Sessions—the “levitated” being, of course, the i
criminal, and the assistants, bewildered by jangling I1
bells rung without hands, the deputy-judge, and the
policemen.
Contributions towards a “ religion of the future ” are
almost invariably unpleasant, and very rarely profitable
reading. In Jesus, by Mr. William Renton (W. Renton:
Keswick), the ethics and the policy (as a popular
reformer) of the “ man, by some surnamed the Christ ”—
for to the Divine nature of the Founder of our faith Mr.
Renton thus alludes en passant, deeming it apparently
quite beneath any serious discussion—are examined in a
spirit half captious and half patronising, Yery good for
Orientals, the author seems to say, but not quite the
ethics and the reasoning which will pass with a certain
writer of books in Cumberland. But while thus
attacking Christianity on what is generally esteemed its
strongest side, Mr. Renton does not consider himself
bound to put us in some better way. “ The reformation
of the world and its real work are only,” he tells us,
“just beginning;” but to this work his volume contri¬
butes, so far as we have examined it, very little, unless
it be an obscure hint that the truest Messiahs we have
seen as yet—if we may still use the old-fashioned word
—are Joseph Maliord Turner and Richard Wagner.
Something more than a flippant cleverness is needed to
commend such an essay to the general public.
Gentler in tone, if scarcely from the Church’s point of
view more orthodox, is the Forecast of the Religion of the
Future, presented to us by W. W. Clark (Trubner and
Co.). No inconvenient dogmas of “ the Atonement,” or
“the Fall,” but a religion of love, in which gifted
mediums and spirit influences will lead us to a clearer
knowledge of the Deity seems, roughly speaking, Mr.
Clark’s ideal. Unfortunately, while throwing overboard
so much which the “natural man” finds difficult of
acceptance, he retains, and even makes the basis of his
system, that which is hardest to believe of all.
(From the “ Banner of Light," July 12M.)
Spirits before Our Eyes is the title of a new work from
the pen of Wm. H. Harrison, editor of the London
Spiritualist, the first volume of which is now ready.
The second and concluding volume is to appear in the
autumn. It is a handsome book of 220 pages, got up in
the neat and uniform style of Psychography and Spirit
Identity, but having double the number of pages. In
this first volume, which might have been not inap¬
propriately called “ Spirits Without a Medium ” (one of
the titles thought of), the author has classified and co-or¬
dinated many of the best-authenticated narratives of
apparitions of the living and of the dying. The second
volume will deal chiefly with the apparitions of the
so-called “ dead,” showing that there is no break of
continuity in the phenomena of apparitions in conse¬
quence of the death of the body.
Mr. Harrison’s editorial position has given him rare
opportunities for collecting appropriate matter for a work
like this, and he has done it skilfully and with excellent
judgment. Most of the narratives are now for the first
time collected, and he has confined himself to such as
are remarkably well attested, fresh, and interesting.
His own comments are judicious, and carry weight from
his familiarity with the materialisation phenomena so
well authenticated by Messrs. Yarley, Crookes, and
others. There is little of modern Spiritualism in this
first volume. The phenomena, while independent of it
and of all conscious mediumship, confirm, however, its
fundamental truths. We bespeak attention to this valu¬
able and carefully-arranged work. It is an excellent
introductory work for investigators to study, who would
acquaint themselves with the basis of modern Spiritualism
and its connection with independent supersensual facts.
Aug. 1, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
53
THE SLEEP. j
Op all the thoughts of Grod that are
Borne inward unto souls afar,
Along the Psalmist’s music deep, {(
Now tell me if that any is,
For gift or grace, surpassing this—
“ He giveth His beloved sleep ? ”
What would we give to our beloved ?
The hero’s heart, to be unmoved,
The poet’s star-tuned harp, to sweep,
The patriot’s voice, to teach and rouse,
The monarch’s crown, to light the brows ?— j<
“ He giveth His beloved sleep.”
What do we give to our beloved ?
A little faith all undisproved,
A little dust to over weep,
And bitter memories to make
The whole earth blasted for our sake.
“ He giveth His beloved sleep.”
“ Sleep, soft beloved 1” we sometimes say,
But have no tune to charm away
Sad dreams that through the eyelids creep ;
But never doleful dream again
Shall break the happy slumber when
“He giveth His beloved sleep.’*
0 earth, so full of dreary noises!
0 men, with wailing in your voices !
0 delved gold, the wailers’ heap !
0 strife, 0 curse, that o’er it fall t
God strikes a silence through you all,
And “giveth His beloved sleep.”
His dews drop mutely on the hill,
His cloud above it saileth still,
Though on its slope men sow and reap.
More softly than the dew is shed,
Or cloud is floated overhead,
“ He giveth His beloved sleep.”
Yea, men may wonder when they scan
A living, thinking, feeling man,
Confirmed in such a rest to keep;
But angels say—and through the word
I think their happy smile is heard—
“ He giveth His beloved sleep.”
For me, my heart, that erst did go
Most like a tired child at a show,
That sees, through tears, the juggler’s leap,
Would now its wearied vision close,
Would childlike on His love repose,
Who “ giveth His beloved sleep.”
And friends, dear friends, when it shall be
That this low breath is gone from me,
And round my bier ye come to weep,
Let one, most loving of you all,
Say, “ Not a tear must o’er her fall:
He giveth His beloved sleep.”
Mbs. Baebett Browning.
Some of the American spiritual and general newspapers have
called attention to the good work done by Mr. James Campbell,
in fearlessly and publicly introducing Spiritualism into the
university with which he was connected, and establishing the
Cambridge University Society for Psychological Investigation.
The Holborn Guardian, in making painful efforts to be funny,
says :—“ I see that the spirits have taken a holiday at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street. I hope they have not gone into Whalley’s cellar.
I like to have a little proof with my spirits. Mr. Whalley’s
warm you; but ‘John King’s’ give one the afftte (Hague). Do
you see it P ”
CORPSE CANDLES.
In many parts of Wales there once existed a belief in
what the peasants called “ corpse candles,” or “ dead
men’s lights.” Some one was sure to be called away
prematurely, it was said, when these mysterious lights
were seen to hover and flicker. Richard Baxter thoroughly
believed in these alleged phenomena, and he has inserted,
as most true and authentic, a story about them in his
Certainty of the World of Spirits, which, he says, “was
written for the confusion and conviction of all Atheists
and Sadducees.” “ Being about the age of fifteen,” says
Baxter, “ dwelling at Lanlyar, late at night some neigh¬
bours saw one of these candles hovering up and down
along the river bank until they were weary in beholding.
At last they left it so and went to bed. A few weeks
after came a damsel from Montgomeryshire to see her
friends, who dwelt on the other side of the River Ystinik,
and thought to ford the river at the very place where the
light was seen. But being dissuaded by’ some of the
lookers-on to adventure on the water, which was high by
reason of the flood, she walked up and down the river
bank even as the aforesaid candle: did, waiting for the
falling of the water, which at last she took, but too soon
for her, for she was drowned therein.” It might have
been a Will-o’-the-wisp, and the subsequent death merely
a coincidence, but Will-o’-the-wisps are more frequently
seen over marshy pools than running streams.
THE TRAVELLING OF THE SPIRIT DURING
BODILY PROSTRATION.
Mr. Lyman C. Howe, of Binghampton, N.Y., writes
to the Religio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago, July 12th)
Some twelve or fourteen years ago, Alice Morgan, of
Randolph, N.Y., became clairvoyant, and had frequent
interviews with her sister Julia, in spirit-life, giving
many tests of identity. Finally Libbie Woodruff, one
of Julia’s former playmates, lay at the point of death.
This fact was known to the clairvoyant. One day, while
communing with Julia, she exclaimed, “ Libbie Woodruff
is here!” Her mother, Mrs. Morgan, replied, “No!
Libbie Woodruff is not dead.” “But she is here,”
replied the seer. “Then ask her if she is dead.” She
replied, “ I do not know whether I be dead or not, but
I am here with Julia.” A messenger was despatched to
learn the facts. On his return he said Libbie Woodruff
was still alive, but very low.
The next day the same experience was repeated.
The sick girl was half a mile or more from the medium.
For several successive days this experience was repeated,
the spirit insisting that she was Libbie Woodruff, and
was “ certainly there with Julia,” but could not tell
whether she had died or not. She said she could see and
talk with Julia, but added each time, “Julia says there
are lots of flowers and doll babies here, but I cannot see
them, but I can see Julia.” After several days of such
testimony, and the sick girl still in the flesh, each time
insisting that she was with Julia, but could not see the
flowers and toys which Julia described to her, and that
she did not know whether she was dead or not, she
appeared to the seer, and said, “Now, Mrs. Morgan, I
know I am dead, for now I can see all the flowers and
dollies and pretty things which J ulia sees. ” A messenger
was despatched to the home of the little sufferer, and lo !
about thirty minutes before his arrival, Libbie Woodruff
had breathed her last.
These facts I had from Dr. Harvey Morgan and wife,
the parents of the seer, and of the spirit Julia, who
then resided in Randolph, Cataraugus Co., N.Y., and
whose testimony I regarded as trustworthy and scrupu¬
lously exact. Facts are the corner-stones of philosophy.
54
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 1, 1879.
NOVEL PHYSICAL PHENOMENA.
For gome yearg past, in connection with the manifegta-
iions obtained in the presence of most of the chief physical
mediums in London, there has been a lack of almost
anything tending to prove that departed friends and rela¬
tives of the sitters were among the spirits producing the
phenomena. There has been a great want in London of
mediums who could give evidence or approximate evi¬
dence of spirit-identity, and that demand is gradually
being met.
Last Saturday night some friends assembled at the
rooms of Mrs. Louie M. Lowe, to witness the manifesta¬
tions produced through her mediumship. The company
consisted of Mr. George C. Joad, Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Miss Ottley, Mr.
Lowe, Captain John James, Miss Emmet, Mr. Harrison,
and a few others who do not wish their names to be pub¬
lished. Mrs. Lowe sat with her back to the fireplace,
and the visitors were seated in chairs round the other
three sides of the room. There was no table or super¬
fluous furniture in the room. The lights were put out,
and some of the usual manifestations took place, in the
shape of touches by spirit hands, and musical instruments
playing as they floated about the room. It is within our
knowledge that Mrs. Lowe was unaware until about two
hours before the stance that three of the ladies present
were coming to it, and she had never met them before.
To one of these ladies a direct spirit voice said, “ I am
your little sister, Sissy.” Another was addressed by her
somewhat unusual Christian name, and told that she had
refined and unusual medial powers. The third had
a message written on a card which she held in
her hand, signed “Ellen.” The first of these
ladies once had a sister, called “ Sissy ” by the family;
the second has remarkable powers of seeing visions in
crystals ; and the third had a departed sister named
Ellen. One visitor was told that his mother, and
another that his daughter, was present; both of them
had such relatives in the spirit world, and no mistake
was made throughout the evening in giving anybody a
spirit relative still living on the earth. No leading
questions or remarks led up to those of the results
which have been herein selected for notice. Some re¬
markable singing was given by direct spirit voices, in¬
cluding one song from a precocious and lively child
named Daisy. Several times during the evening mes¬
sages were written with great velocity on cards held in
the hands of the sitters. A spirit voice said to Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory—“ Tell Sir Jocelyn I was glad to be
able to lay down so small a thing as my life in support of
my country’s rights.” The speaker stated himself to be
Lieutenant Coghill. One relative and several personal
friends of Sir Jocelyn Coghill were at the stance, but
there is no reason for supposing that the medium was
aware of the circumstance. She had arrived from America
three weeks previously, and the visitors present were not
of her own selection, yet the majority received evidence
that the spirits were aware of some of their private family
affairs.
Mr. David H. Wilson, M.A;, LL.M. (Cantab), will deliver
a discourse at the Rev. T. A. Briggs’s Chapel, Adrian-street,
Dover, on Sunday evening next, the 3rd of August. Subject:
“ Teachers and Tempters.” Service at 6.30 p.m.
In helping to catalogue the books in the library of the National
Association of Spiritualists, Dr. Carter Blake recently worked for
four or five hours daily for about two months. In the delicate
and not always easy work of taking charge of the seances for
inquirers he worked hard, and was always on good terms with
the sitters and mediums. The Association is under a heavy debt
of gratitude to him, • _ -'••• ^ ,
| | “ THE MOORISH PRINCESS.”
> The clergyman who sent us last week the information
[ about “The Moorish Princess” in Warrington, Lanca-
{! shire, has just forwarded us the following article from
j j one of the Warrington newspapers, the name of which
|Jj he does not give:—
A great sensation has been created in the town during
|jj the last few days by the advent of a very remarkable
; woman, whose powers, in the direction in which she
| (| exercises them, seem to be almost unlimited. Her visit
| ! was not heralded by any startling announcement, but
j(j she came quietly into the town and began operations,
| j I the result being that in a very short time people were
1 flocking in thousands to see her. Whether she calls
|y herself a doctor, a surgeon dentist, or what, we are
I) | unable to say; but her chief business seems to consist of
i \ i dentistry, though she does not confine herself to that.
|)! The lady is, of .course, a foreigner, and, in fact, can
I \ I speak hardly any English. She is said to have come
|) | from all the countries of Europe almost, but, according
ji to her own statement, she hails from Brussels. She is
j) j staying at the Lion Hotel, where she sees patients in
]) | private; but the thing that has caused her fame to spread
U so far and wide with such wonderful rapidity is her
|j| public exhibition of her abilities in the fair ground.
|) | About two o’clock * each afternoon she leaves her hotel
\ in a gilded chariot, drawn by three spanking horses
I /; decked with nodding plumes, which she drives herself,
j (| and accompanied by a brass band of seven performers,
ij She drives through the town, preceded and followed
I j by a crowd, which grows larger every day, to the fair-
m ground, where she makes a stand, and where, in
| j a few minutes, she is surrounded by an immense
m concourse of people, who completely block up the
)| streets all round. As soon as she is ready for work,
I the people begin, one at a time, to step up into her
y] carriage; she draws a tooth in a little less than no time,
J and the patient passes down on the other side. How-
\{\ ever stubborn the stump that has to be drawn, out it
|) | comes under her magic touch; and as the six jolly Dutch-
| (| looking" musicians bray forth their brazen music all the
| j | time, it seems almost like some scene from a fairy tale,
| (j especially as the lady herself, who, by the way, is of
!j| rather comely appearance, is gorgeously arrayed in an
j)j Oriental costume of gold and spangles. The dexterity
I (| and speed with which she extracts the teeth are really
|) j marvellous, and can only be the result of an enormous
| | amount of practice, allied with natural defthandedness
n and strength of mind. All the time she smiles so
|) | pleasantly that one cannot help seeing that she thoroughly
m enjoys it. The most extravagant stories are, of course,
|| current with respect to the marvels she performs; but
| there is no doubt she has on several occasions drawn
| at the rate of nearly 200 an hour; and under her gentle
i manipulation, with the musical accompaniment, patients
seem positively to enjoy getting rid of their grinders.
But drawing teeth is not the only accomplishment of this
remarkable doctoress. She also, with equal skill and
with almost the same lightning speed, cures deafness,
removes tumours, gets rid of rheumatism; in fact, deals
successfully with nearly every ill that poor weak flesh is
heir to, however many years the patient has been suffering.
And last, but not least, in all her public performances
“ There’s nothing to pay.” But, after all, this wonderful
gilded chariot, these seven stalwart Dutchmen, these
three prancing horses, and the heaven-sent healer
herself cannot live solely by doing good work—for
| nothing; and after a few thousands of stumps have
| been uprooted, execution is stayed while the lady
. offers for sale a small phial containing a green liquid and
55
Aug. L 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST.
a small oval box of pink powder, with a book of
directions, for the very reasonable sum of two shillings.
As these priceless treasures will cure everything, they
are bought up like wildfire by the excited crowd; and
this is how the lady procures the wherewithal to carry
on her business. Some idea may be formed of the
number of bottles sold when we state, from our own
observation, that she has sometimes taken close on £40
in an hour. Altogether the amount of money she is
said to have taken during the short time she has been
here is something fabulous, She is said to be going to
stay a month; but if she continues operations at her
normal speed, there will hardly be teeth enough left in
the town to keep her going so long. So enormous is
the execution already done, that we hear the Corporation
contemplate paving one of the new streets with the
heaps of confiscated teeth now to be had. What is to
become of our local dentists and of our surgeons, too, is
a matter really too serious to be thought of. We were
almost omitting to state that the doctoress communicates
with her patients and the public through an interpreter.
Yesterday (Friday) afternoon additional mystery was
imparted to the proceedings by the fact that the
interpreter, through excess of business, or some other
unexplained cause, ivas so hoarse that he could hardly
speak, and could not make himself heard two yards off.
The services of the town crier were therefore called into
requisition, and he, with his bald head uncovered, and
fully impressed with the dignity of his position, solemnly
interpreted the interpreter’s inaudible remarks. As this
arrangement was not very satisfactory, the suggestion
naturally suggested itself—Why did the doctoress not
cure her servant’s hoarseness 1 This, one would think,
ought to be a simple matter to one possessed of almost
supernatural powers. But perhaps she never thought
of it.
A KEMAEKABLE SEANCE.
BY HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD, J.P.
I have just had a sitting with Mrs. Lowe, who gave me
a series of the most striking tests I have ever received;
although much of what was most convincing to me arose
in an incidental way it is impossible to reproduce.
When I had first called on Mrs. Lowe, for the purpose of
arranging a sitting, she had suddenly fallen under control,
when she asserted that John King was there, wishing to
put me in mind of his meeting me at a seance I had had
with Mr. Williams, at the house of Mrs. Yolckman, when
Mr. Massey and Florence Marryat were present, and the
medium was “ finely spread.” Owing to a misapprehen¬
sion of mine (thinking of a different sitting) I denied
stoutly that Mr. Massey had been there; but John was
positive, and said he was sure I should remember if I
reflected. When the misapprehension was removed, I
clearly remembered the meeting as described, when the
body of Mr. Williams was ** spread ” out over the knees
of Mr. Massey and me at the same time that John King
showed himself by his lamp. At my sitting with Mrs.
Lowe to-day John King immediately took possession of
her hand, and wrote—“ I want to say that I did meet you
with Mr. Massey at Mrs. Yolckman’s, where we so
triumphantly vindicated our chosen medium Williams.”
I was glad to be able now to assent to the assertion. It
must be observed that the sitting in question took place
many months ago, when Mrs. Lowe was in America.
By Mrs. Lowe’s direction I now wrote half a dozen
names on different pieces of paper, each of which I
folded up alike, and mixed together, so that I could not
tell what name was written on any given paper. One of
these was the name of a sister of mine, Mary L--   , who
|| died of asthma, and another that of her son Edward,
i Mrs. Lowe took a pencil and prepared to write. She
| said, “ I see a lady of such and such description. She
| says Edward is with her,” Then, after a little, she asked
B me whether the lady had died of consumption, “because
in there is such an oppression of the breath (herself catching
])| her breath), such a worn-out feeling, complete exhauS-
) tion.” She then took the pencil, and addressed me by
name as her brother, signing it with her full name, Mary
| > | L -. When she stopped, Mrs. Lowe picked out the
| (i pellet on which I had written her name, and gave it me.
The next name was a connection of mine, Walter Smith,
i)j who had jumped overboard on his way from America.
Kj Mrs. Lowe said, “I see a man who seems to have left
j| this life suddenly ; his life cut off before it ought to have
I \ | been; does not seem to have been quite an accident. I
j|j see the letter W. in the middle of a wreath.” In one of
IJj the other writings she gave the full name Walter Smith.
j\| Each of the writers wrote in a perfectly distinct hand,
|| kept up throughout, but not like that of the person in life.
| (| One of the writers entered upon a number of details of what
|) j took place fifty years ago that I am sure were known to
j(j nobody but ourselves. The whole of the names given on
hj the half-dozen pellets were rendered correctly.
!/i 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London.
MES. LOUIE LOWE’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Mns. Louie M. Lowe, through whose mediumship such
Kj remarkable manifestations are now being obtained in
| I London, has favoured us with the following outline of the
j | development of her powers :—
I) I was born in Iowa in 1848, a few months after the
K j first Rochester rappings were obtained. From my earliest
i j j childhood I have been clairvoyant and clairaudient, and
j) \ was in the habit of talking to my spirit sister, or, as my
j\| parents thought, inveterately talking to myself, so they
1| punished me accordingly. At school I studied little, but
was thought quick in learning; sometimes, when questions
| were asked me by the masters, I saw the answers written
before me in letters of light. The spirits seem so solid
to me that at first I cannot tell them from mortals; I can
j often feel them; they feel to me solid to the touch,
When I concentrate my mind and vision upon them, 1
m can see through them, the objects behind them then
i) j coming into view; the forms gradually disappear by a
j \ | kind of mist appearing to rise between us. I see them
j) j just the same, whether my eyes be shut or open. When
1(1 spirits have controlled me and shut my eyes they conduct
j)j me safely across the streets, and in shops I have distin-
| guished the most delicate colours, and selected desired
j); articles with ease from among the smallest objects, to the
j)j surprise of the shopkeepers. I have a pair of slippers
j(l which were delicately worked in colours while I was
jjj entranced by spirits, with my eyes firmly closed. When
jjl I am clairaudient it seems as if somebody were calling
Kj from a distance with considerable effort, but the voices
i (j are so distinct that I am surprised other people present
Kj do not hear them.
When I grew old enough to realise that I possessed the
j(j exceptional power of seeing spirits my grandfather died,
|) and true to a promise he had previously made to my
jq mother, he soon appeared to me, and has continued with
j j my band of spirits ever since. From the day after his
j)j death the most remarkable physical manifestations, raps
j(j and movements of solid objects, sounds of heavy footsteps
m on the stairs, and various noises occurred in my father’s
jh house—mostly when I was present, sometimes when I
j\l was absent. These manifestations have followed me,
jjj more or less, ever since : sometimes to my annoyance.
When I was about seventeen years of age, or four years
56
THE SPIRITUALIST.
after I first saw my grandfather, I first heard of the (g
modern spiritual manifestations, and attended a regular |)|
stance for the first time. About ten minutes after the |)|
sitting began I, for the first time in my life, passed into j\|
an unconscious trance, and through my lips gave tests of j;j
spirit identity to several persons in the circle. This was k|
at the house of Dr. Lester, Moline, Illinois. Since then nj
I have commonly passed into the trance state, and given j)j
similar tests. All new manifestations through my Kj
mediumship have come unexpectedly, without desire on >
my part, or previous promises on the part of the spirits. In
With these powers about me my house was thronged, m
and for about seven years people were constantly calling |)i
to witness the manifestations; they took up most of my Rj
time, and rendered me unable to attend to household ;|
duties, until at last my spirit grandfather said: “ Ministers j \ |
are paid for preaching the Gospel, why should you not be m
paid for preaching a greater truth?” I adopted the Rj
advice, but reserved two days in each week for gratuitous j\i
seances to the deserving poor, and continued them until l)|
so much sitting became too trying for my health.
The spirits who entranced me to speak to their friends, j^j
invariably at their first coming reproduced in my j)j
organism the pains felt and symptoms displayed by them j(j
when dying.* The return of several persons who had j>|
died of consumption caused me to have hemorrhage of j)j
the lungs, which continued for two or three years, but j(i
which, thanks to the spirit world, was cured during my visit j) j
to London in 1875, in one treatment by their instrument j(i
Dr. Mack, in whose house I and my husband are now Rj
staying. When the same spirit returns several times the Rj
distressing symptoms already mentioned gradually cease ; j(j
the spirits say that, by some law which they cannot j/j
explain, they are obliged to take up earthly life where they ju
left it off, when they return through a medium. As my jjj
trance sittings thus injured my health, I asked the spirits to j/i
give me some other convincing phase of mediumship, if j\j
they wished me to work for them as a test medium; j)j
whereupon they told me to place paper and pencil in the Rj
stance room. I did so, and at the first trial obtained n!
automatic spirit writing, through my own hand, with my R
eyes closed. I can always feel the spirit hand guiding Kj
mine, and tell whether it is that of a man, woman, or Rj
child. While they are thus working I am totally un- j(j
conscious what they are writing; I am in my normal j) j
state, and can go on talking on any subject with ease.
This writing I obtain quite as well before public audi- j|j
ences as in private stances. In public the custom is to Rj
ask the audience to appoint a judge who preferably is a j(j
stranger to me, and not a Spiritualist, to sit beside me on j)j
the platform. Slips of blank paper, of uniform size, are Rj
supplied to the persons present, on which each is re- isj
quested to write the names of some of his spirit friends, >
and then to fold the slip tightly over and over, as many R
times as they like. I do not allow any outside marks on R
any of the ballots, as that might make people think that jK
somebody in the audience was in collusion with me. Kj
These papers are collected in a hat, and thrown upon the j)j
table, after the judge has taken his seat. I then touch j\j
them momentarily with a pencil one by one; when a Rj
spirit asked for on a touched slip is present, he signifies j(j
it by three raps. The designated ballot is then taken by K j
the judge, who holds it unopened while the message is j?j
automatically written through my hand by the spirit, who Rj
signs his name, which name is invariably the same as that j)j
on the ballot. Sometimes, when initials only are on the in
ballot paper, full names are given by the spirits. Some- jjj
times the messages are full of generalities; at other times j}j
* This phenomenon has been observed in connection with
several different mediums, and there is no question as to the
reality of the fact.—Ed.
Aug. 1, 1879.
they show distinct knowledge of the private affairs of
their friends in the audience, and give striking evidence
of their personal identity. Fac simile signatures are of
frequent occurrence, especially when I am in good health,
and occasionally whole messages are written in what is
undoubtedly the handwriting of the spirit. These public
seances I have given in many of the principal cities of the
United States, including "Washington, New York, Brook¬
lyn, Boston, and San Francisco. The audiences have
always been interested and apparently pleased ; moreover,
the daily papers have always spoken well of these
seances, and given fair reports. If facilities are volun¬
teered by London Spiritualists, I shall be glad to give
one of these seances in the Cavendish Rooms some Sun¬
day evening. During a brief visit to London four years
ago, I gave two of these public seances at Doughty Hall,
which some of the Spiritualists in the metropolis may
remember.
At these seances other messages are given than those
by means of the ballot, and the manifestation has fre¬
quently occurred of red letters appearing and disappearing
upon my arms, fresh letters again growing upon the same
spot under the gaze of the observers. They are always the
initials—or may be the full names—of spirit friends of #
persons present, and are frequently tested by the folded
ballots in the manner already described.
I have on several occasions diagnosed on the platform
the diseases of persons who were utter strangers to me ;
skilled physicians, who had purposely brought their own
patients with them, have expressed their great surprise
when, without one word or indication uttered by them or
their patients, I have never failed to tell them correctly
the symptoms and ailments, and their causes, while not
unfrequently I have pointed out the proper remedies to
be used. This I am enabled to do by the aid of a spirit
physician, one of my band, who has on some special and
important occasions examined patients for me who were
thousands of miles off, whom I had never seen, and not
even heard of, until that day when he would diagnose
and report to me. I have never known him to make a
mistake, and I invariably follow his advice in my own
case. So, when in 1877 symptoms of cancer began to
manifest themselves on my breast and arm, and a pro¬
fessional “ cancer ” physician of Brooklyn (where I was
then living) advised a certain mode of treatment, I fol¬
lowed the advice of my spirit doctor, who told me that
mesmerism alone would cure me, but that my husband,
although a mesmeric healer, could not perfect the cure,
as our psychical influences had become so much assimi¬
lated by constant blending. The spirit doctor felt quite
sure that if I would go to Boston, where Dr. Mack then
was, he would be able in a very short time to cure me. I
followed his advice, and was treated thrice for about fifteen
minutes each time by Dr. Mack. During the third treat¬
ment a well-defined cancer was drawn from my arm ; the
doctor then told me that further personal treatment was
needless; that I might return home and apply daily to
my arm and breast specially mesmerised paper, with
which he provided me. I did so, and in two weeks all
traces of my ailment had disappeared.
During a cessation of two years in 1875—77 from my
public professional mediumship, I held a seance once a
day with Mr. Lowe for his medial development, when
the spirits would frequently show us what they could
do when conditions were favourable, such as speaking
in a loud voice at noon in a sunny well-lighted room;
bringing articles from locked trunks in other rooms,
and even from other houses, and dropping them ap¬
parently from some indefinite point in the ceiling before
our eyes. . They would sometimes drop things before
us in the street while we were walking. Spirits ma-
57
Aug. 1, 1879. THE SPIKIT CJ ALIST.
terialised and dematerialised in a dimly-lighted room,
and when we turned the light still further down, hands
would pat us all over, and flowers be brought in at
an opening in the window. About this time the spirits
requested us to hold our first dark circle, and told us
whom to invite. We darkened the room thoroughly,
locked the doors, shut and bolted the windows, closed
the opening of the fireplace, and formed a circle of
twelve persons (myself in the middle), each joining
hands with those on either side. The spirits then told
us to express our wishes, either verbally or mentally,
for any kind of flower we might desire, but which was
then growing near the city (San Francisco). We com¬
plied with the request—generally by mental wish—sang
“Sweet By-and-by,” and before we had finished the
three verses, each one in the circle had had his or
her wish literally fulfilled—the requested flowers being
put on our laps or in our hands (and that without any
groping or mistakes) by the spirits in the dark room.
The flowers brought on that occasion would have filled
a bushel measure. We have since had flowers ma¬
terialised from living plants, which plants had been
brought into the circle room in a flower pot only a
few minutes before.
This manifestation took place notably in the presence
of the Honourable J. L. O’Sullivan (formerly Minister to
Portugal from the United States), Mr. D. Lyman, and
others. The room was utterly dark, and immediately the
door was shut and everybody seated, we could hear as if
the plant were being crunched or torn ; this peculiar noise
went on for say five minutes—not more—the spirits
speaking during the operation ; they then told us to open
the door, Mr. Lyman and Mr. O’Sullivan each held in his
hand a beautiful well-formed Calla lily, which had been put
therebythespiritsafewmoments before. These flowers are
now preserved in wax, and are in the possession of Mr.
O’Sullivan. They were produced by the special aid of
Mahala, an ancient Indian fakir, who has long been one
of my husband’s guides. We found the stems of the lily
in the flower-pot torn and gutted, apparently sapless, and
looking as if they had been dead for days.
Since my return to public mediumship in 1877, I have
made dark circles a speciality. At the commencement
physical manifestations were the most prominent features
in these circles ; musical instruments—sometimes half a
dozen at a time—would be flying about and playing in
different parts of the circle; hands would tap or quietly
grasp the hands of the sitters; and voices would whisper
to others, giving messages to their friends, by which the
identity of each spirit speaking was fully proved. Hair¬
pins, rings, and earrings would be taken off one person in
the circle and put on somebody else, the fingers always
going straight to the mark, without any groping or mis¬
take. While this went on, I was enveloped completely in
a bag made of mosquito netting, tied above my head and
the knot frequently sealed.
On many occasions the sitters would contribute each
one or more articles, which would be collected by one of
themselves, and the proprietorship of each special article
unknown to me or my husband ; the collection would be
laid on my lap inside the bag before it was tied over
me. Shortly after extinguishing the light, one person
would exclaim, “Well! here are my keys;” another,
“I’ve got my knife,” and so one. Frequently, when
half-dollars of different dates were put in, the spirits
never failed to discriminate the ownership and
return the money to its original possessor. But
the most puzzling question was, How did they
get the articles through the sealed bag ? On one
occasion a lady put in a bracelet made of silver, and set
with Scotch Cairngorm stones. One of the stones had been
ii lost in an omnibus a few days before because of a loose
)j setting. What was her surprise to find, after they
returned it to her from the bag, that the missing stone
vI ] had been found and reset with the skill of a practical
u jeweller. On several occasions spirits have cut locks
:}] from their hair while they were materialised in these
dark circles, and handed them to their friends, who some-
s | times were utter strangers to me. Two of these materialised
)| curls were said to match exactly; the hair had been cut
q twenty-one years before in one instance, and two years
71 in the other.
The manifestations in my dark circles have now
)| developed somewhat different characteristics, amongst
q which the independent voices are prominent. The spirit
| James Nolan has sometimes spoken uninterruptedly for
)'j half an hour and more, in a full sonorous voice of
(| remarkable power, and proved his identity in ways and
) I by tests innumerable (apart from the tone of his voice and
)] general bearing) to many persons—ladies and gentlemen
(| of culture and discrimination—who had had frequent seances
)i with his own special medium in the city of Washington,
) | before they had even heard of me. Many other spirits
\ i evince an equal power of speech, and show themselves to
) | be accomplished singers, attaining and sustaining high
{1 notes which some professional vocalists would be glad to
> I be able to imitate. During the intervals between these
' | manifestations our infant spirit daughter “ Daisy ” is
(| busy giving names and tests. A tin trumpet is placed in
) I the circle for the benefit of any spirit who may wish to
\j speak to friends, and with whom the independent
)j voice is still a matter of experiment, but it is never
<i used by any of our own band, and is generally
S1 placed on the lap of some one in the circle to show
)j that it is not in use, although the clear ringing voices
(| of the spirits, especially when singing, not unfrequently
j| deceive one into the belief that the trumpet is being
q used. One remarkable feature of my mediumship, fre-
(\ quently noticed by old investigators, is the retentive
)j and accurate memory shown by spirits when manifest-
(| ing through me. They are able to tell when and where
;j they have met the sitters on former occasions, to say
<1 through what medium they have manifested, and relate
) what took place at such seances. I say it is remarkable,
(! because I have been quite despoiled of my own memory
!j since engaging actively in mediumship, and I notice the
| same failing in Mr. Lowe, who, before sitting for de-
| velopment, had a minutely exact memory, but now seems
unable to recollect the most ordinary conversation after
a lapse of twenty-four hours.
\j . THE BJELIGION OP SPIRITUALISTS.
) | Sir,—Haviug lectured on the above subject at home or abroad
<! for many years, I am not unnaturally interested in the discussion
(\ now proceeding with reference to the able papers of your talented
j| contributor, Madame de Steiger, with whose views from Our
) | House Built on the Bock, p. 28, I have much sympathy of
q heart, and true communism of soul. If religion be understood
( \ as embracing any system or mode of faith and worship-involving
\: spirituality of life and purity of character, then I submit that,
>| as a matter of fact, “ the purposes of Christianity,” as a form of
) | religious mythology, have failed (Matt. xix. 12,21), ending in self-
(i aggrandisement rather than self-sacrifice; whereas practical piety,
(i the recognition of love, duty, obedience to order*, the whole relation
\i of man toward man, truth, justice, temperance, benevolence,
)j friendship, humility, spiritual and bodily chastity, angelic com-
q munion, in a word godliness, are being devoutly illustrated
(j in England and Germany by men and women of genius and cul-
{\ ture who have ceased to accept a body of truths and falsehoods
>1 as the infallible revelations ot a Supreme Being, or “His only-
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 1, 1879.
58
begotten Son,” although such Hebrew and Greek records are m
authorised to be read in Latin and English by the representatives u
of kingcraft and priestcraft as the “ only ” correct requirements of (j
Divine Law, belief or disbelief in which ensures deathless reward j j |
or punishment. Besides, are we to be told by so excellent a brother i) i
as Dr. George Wyld that St. Erancis, Pascal, Eenelon, Maurice, in
Tennyson, Martineau, Robertson, Swedenborg, Savonarola, St. [([
Teresa, and “hundreds of others” are all equally, or “truly and \j
profoundly Christian ? ” If so, then I affirm that Christianity may j) |
signify anything or nothing, in orthodoxy and heterodoxy; in short, j) |
everything! Yes; as the learned and worthy (“ that once familiar j (j
name ”) Dr. Carter Blake dearly loves definitions, I assert, with | \ i
sincere respect for himself personally, that his “ eight words and !) |
phrases” may all and singular oe accurately defined as pertaining to j) j
a Protean Christian, who is earnestly, but not without prejudice of j (i
bigotry, devoted to his special form of versatile Christianity, nj
albeit readily changing its different shapes from generation to j j j
generation, as well as its utilitarian influence on politics, j)j
theology, and morals. Surely, sir, your valuable journal has 1(1
done some-what better for us, its readers and subscribers,
than merely giving one a weekly supply of “doctrines of jji
abomination,” “John King chaff,” “imbecile namby-pamby i)j
verbiage,” together with a full and correct account of “angels uj
from the seventh heavens thrust out of dark cabinets in bundles j (j
of muslin, amid the sobs of weeping women.” In the m
names of all the gods and goddesses at once, “for shame!” j)|
Is there any distinction in logic and metaphysics, between j}|
analogy and induction? Supposing the highest principles of m
human knowledge to be the result of the older light of ancient jU
Spiritualism, would this in any way affect the validity or limit j) i
the application of those principles when seen in the newer and |) I
brighter light of modern Spiritualism ? Can we alter the natural m
agency or principles of causality, and the very meaning of expe- hi
rience according to Pagan and Jewish or Christian names P |) j
What of Goethe, Humboldt, Yoltaire, Laplace, and the rest? )
“ Public Spiritualism is chiefly darkness,” we are assured by Dr. j (i
Wyld this day. Nevertheless, I protest that having been chair- i (j
man again and again for some of the best mediums in Europe !) j
and America, of either sex, whose prose and verse have been j)j
applauded to the echo by thousands of intelligent, well-educated j / j
persons in each assembly, I have never heard a single utterance, j < j
sentence, or theological opinion that was not strictly in harmony j (!
with the teaching attributed to Peter in a trance or out of it. i > i
“He that worketh righteousness is accepted by God in every |)|
nation under heaven” (Griesbach). Spiritualism, therefore, in j(j
the sense of observed natural truth, is its own scientific and (j
philosophical justification, even whether man’s conception of m
Deity be true or false; and in despite of religious mythology, I) j
or the dreams, the reveries, the illusions of dogmatic Christians, ! 11
and all the diverse niceteria of emotional, inharmonious, yet j)j
ceromatic religionists, it is the highest achievement of modern i)j
progress throughout the world, the most splendid triumph in the I) j
history of moral and mental sciences, the only soul-satisfying m
and sweetly harmonious of all the many systems of nature, or (
Ians of Divine government hitherto evolved in the religion of i}
eing good or doing good now and for ever. j)
William Hitchman, M.D. |{
Liverpool, July 18th, 1879. i (
Sib,—Is Spiritualism the fullest and most instructive of all (
revelations? Is it the worst, the most degraded and degrad- HI
ing ? Is it a religion? Can anything like a religion be evolved j)i
from it? What is religion, and how is Spiritualism related
to it ? | j|
All the air about us palpitates with these questions, and Hi
with the “ jarring yea and nay ” which are supposed to answer j) i
them. iji
Not long ago religion was defined by Mr. Abbott, editor of (|
The Index, as “ the effort of man to perfect himself.” Mr. j j j
Campbell, in his recent communication to The Spiritualist, |j|
supposes that “every one understands” it to be “one binding )
link with the father of spirits,” but does not enlighten us as itj
to the exact character of the link. Madame de Steiger’s very j j
suggestive papers dwell much upon the lack and the urgent H
need of enthusiasm in these days. It seems to me that she j/j
strikes the key-note of the matter, and supplies almost all j |
that is wanting in Mr. Abbott’s cold formula to raise it to the j j j
dignity of a true definition. Mr. Campbell’s view is, however, | j
if .1 rightly understand it, the more popular. We speak of i)j
“ religions,” including even the worship of idols, and generally mean
any recognition of a mysterious Power, to which we owe
the allegiance either of love or of fear. The element of personal
terror, which cowers before the wrath of an angry Deity, enters
largely, not only into primitive forms of worship, but also into
those of Christendom at the present day. This fear of God is
simply the fear of being hurt. But the love of God—what is
that ? If it be anything worthy of the name, it is an enthusiastic
adoration of goodness; a most interior recognition of that
supreme beauty of holiness before which angels bow down, and
archangels veil their faces; a panting thirst after the water-
brooks of truth • a worship of purity for its own sake; ,a love of
charity, because it is in itself the highest good.
We are not under some spell which compels us to sink in the
magic mirror of a creed for the dimmed reflection of these things;
for they are indeed “nearer than hands and feet,” they are
engraved upon our very souls. So far, however, from universal
acceptance has been this central truth, that a Christian
Church has found it possible to denounce as “filthy rags”
the effort of man to perfect himself, howsoever intense and
humble that effort might be. “ Lay your deadly doing down,”
saith the preacher. But those who recognise an enthusiastic
striving after the right, in all its forms of varied loveliness,
as the corner-stone of religion, will accord the palm of superior
excellence to any revelation which most vividly, directly, and
constantly impresses upon us the vital importance of spiritual
self-culture; and I will venture to say that none which the
world has ever received compares with Spiritualism in that
respect. No teaching has ever placed before man with the same
startling force the uncompromising laws of retributive justice.
Every communication we receive, from the highest to the lowest,
alike impresses upon us the tremendous fact that there is no
escape mom the results of our own actions, and that not only
shall every idle word be required of us, but that every train of
thought which we encourage, every emotion that finds a resting-
place in our hearts, every impulse that guides ug on our way,
awakens an endless echo,
IJpon this rock, as it appears to me, must the religion of
Spiritualism be builded, E. G. J.
Sib,—I am thankful that you have warned off “ sectarians ” *
from this discussion, and more thankful that such prohibition
does not, I hope, apply to me.
I shall carefully abstain from offering argument in favour of
any particular theological system, as such a course is not
necessary for my present purpose. I merely wish to show that
before Spiritualists are in a position to save other denominations
“ from drowning,” they should exhibit some solidity in their own
limbs. If Lurline had not “ materialised ” a leg or two to stand
upon, her arms would not have had the power to draw Sir
Roland under the-water, If some proposal of a common point
of agreement had been made, we should have been spared the
excellent analysis of what some Spiritualists do believe, and some
Spiritualists do not believe, which appeared a few weeks ago in
tne letters signed “ A Spiritualist.” (?)
Every religious sect has some positive or negative characters
which differentiate it from all others. The “ Bounding Brethren
of Barnabas ” (I speak with respect of the tenets and practices
of all the members of this religious denomination, and I trust
none, even of the sisters, will be offended by my remarks) either
believe something or practice something which other sects do
not, or else they deny certain doctrines and neglect certain uses
which other sects consider of vital importance. They have,
therefore, a definite creed. Have Spirituausts the like ? Is there
a certain definite point on which all are agreed ? Even beliefs
like that in a future state, in the immortality of the soul, in the
existence of conditions of reward and punishment after death are
capable of denial, and have been absolutely denied, by persons
who have the most thorough belief in the truth of the phenomena
occasionally presented in the presence of certain psychics. Is
there any consensus of agreement between the “John Kings”
of various places and times ? Some, of course, imagine that what
they themselves believe is the canon of truth, and that what
others believe is in all cases either fraud or folly. The Prokto-
phantasmist on the road to the Block sberg is an example of
these, and we are told by Goethe of his fate. We find that
after ell his spepchesr-
* Not sectarians, but essays going into the details of the
dogmae of sects,—Ep, of S%
Aua 1, 1879.
THE SPIRITHALIST.
S9
“ Er wird sick gleich in eine Pf iitze setzen}
Das ist die Art, wie er sick soulagirt,
Und wenn Blutegel sick an seinem Steiss ergetzen,
Ist er von Geistern und von Geist curirtP
Many persons, of whom I am one, have been accustomed to he
alternately styled both " fools ” and “ knaves ” for a few hundred
years past. Unfortunately, as Newman has put it, they cannot
oe botli at the same time, and the accusations get mixed.
It is not, however, my present duty to inquire what degree of
“ intelligence ” is possessed by a large body of educated men, or
whether or why the President of the Royal Society has a gold
mace borne before him, while an antique cocked-hat is placed on
the table before the President of the Society of Antiquaries. I
would rather discuss Spiritualism; and, as Lord Chelmsford
found it more convenient to fight at Ulundi than at Pietermaritz¬
burg, I will ask Spiritualists if they do not agree among them¬
selves on any definite universal belief, at least to give me some
affirmative or negative answers on the following points. Of
course I have no doubt that the trumpet will give no uncertain
sound in the case of many, and it must always be borne in mind
that I am merely asking for information, which I shall gladly
receive at the hands of those representative persons who are
entitled to pronounce with authority not only what others do
beheve, but what others ought to believe. At present everyone
seems to give his own opimon, which is as good, or as bad, as
those of ms neighbours.
Quot homines, tot sententiee;
which sentiment of Terence has been well translated, “ different
people have different opinions; some like leeks, and some like
‘ inions.’ ”
A. On what common beliefs are Spiritualists agreed ?
B. What definition is placed on the word “Spiritualism” by
a majority, if not by all ? I call myself a Spiritualist because I
do not believe in the existence of . matter,” and do believe that
certain phenomena are genuine. But such a definition might
include Professors Huxley and Tyndall, neither of whom can
logically be termed “Materialists;” and might exclude those
persons who believe that “ matter ” and “ substance ” are iden¬
tical, and who might or might not believe in “ ghosts.”
C. What is the authoritative teaching current among Spiritu¬
alists respecting the destiny of the soul after death? Is this
word “soul” understood as psyche or as pneuma, and what
definition is placed on each P If any other equivalent is given,
perhaps some charitable person will inform me what it is, or, at
least, tell me what is the currency in common circulation. When
this is known, the base coin will of course be nailed to the
counter, and the good coin passed into “ the treasury of accepted
truths.” There are far more persons who are “ astride the fence”
than the Rev. W. Miall (whose excellent paper, for obvious
reasons sufficiently discussed in your pages, I could not criticise
at the time) and myself.
D. Considering the manner in which “ emotional” Spiritualism
[i.e., that of the affections) has failed to secure recognition on
the part of outsiders, and that solid experimental researches like
those of Crookes, Wallace, and Stainton Moses are at least read
by those who are unacquainted with the facts, it behoves some of
us to ask, Is there any good in continuing to fatigue the external
world by the recitation of facts which some of us may believe
and some may deny, but of which not all of us are quite certain
as to the interpretation ? Mr. Blackburn’s machine, in the safe
hands in which it will soon be, will, doubtless, produce good
work; but it may be foreseen that scores of such apparatus will be
ultimately necessary, and it will be advisable that a very large series
of experiments be entered into, before any hypotheses are evolved.
Mr. Harrison’s accurate speculations are certainly the foundation
of some important theories; but on this topic anything like
precipitate action should be deprecated. Now that the investi¬
gation initiated by Mr. Blackburn’s generosity is in the right
hands, I may say that I never knew a period when the pros¬
pects of the safe and sure Spiritualism I have always advocated
were so bright.
Apologising for the length of this letter, which has been
entirely called forth by your leading article, and regretting that I
have not space to express my thorough concurrence in, and
admiration for, much that my friend, Mr. J. A. Campbell, has
said, I remain, &c., C. Carter Blake,
THE ARYA SAMAJ.
Sir,—1 observe that in the July 18th number you quote without
. appeared ill The Times on July 12th,
comment a paragraph which
describing one of Dr. Carter Blake’s British Museum lectures.
That paragraph contains an inaccuracy which it may be important
to some of your readers to point out. It is there stated that the
President of the Arya Samaj was present. This is impossible, as
the President of the Arya Samaj is in India. Reference is
doubtless made to a Hindoo named Hurrycund Chintamon, who,
it is true, was formerly an official of the Arya Samaj, but who
quitted his post and the society with some abruptness. 1 am
surprised that either he or his friends care to recall the circum¬
stance. .    Zeta.
SYNCHRONOUS VISION.
Sir,—It may, perhaps, be a matter of interest to you to have
a short account of a vision seen by a lady of my acquaintance on
Wednesday last, July the 23rd.
The attention of ray friend was drawn, on the evening of the
above-named day, to what seemed to her to be a very fine star,
which, as she looked, increased in size and came nearer. Within
this star-like form she saw most clearly a cross, and on this cross
a human figure. The members of her family, with her at the time,
all saw the same appearance without an exception.
I may add the lady is no Spiritualist; rather, I should say, is
opposed to it, and is, I believe, a member of the English Church.
A. M. T. Pery.
23, Delamere-crescent, Paddington, W.
A FINAL WORD.
Sir,-—There is an undercurrent of suggestion in Mr. Stainton
Moses’s temperate and forbearing letter which calls for another
word from me.
I certainly am utterly ignorant of any undisclosed facts which
are, in my judgment, at all explanatory of the treatment of Dr.
Carter Blake by the Council of the Association. Nor can I
surmise what assertions, or whose, with reference to that matter
are open to contradiction, or for what reason, in that case, they
remain uncontradicted. To my mind, as I have already observed,
the only relevant statement is that of Dr. Blake of the infrequency
of his visits since his resignation.
I do not need to be assured that Mr. Stainton Moses is
incapable of intentional discourtesy towards myself, but I accept
with gratification his withdrawal ot an expression which I thought
unfortunate. C. C. Massey.
Wells, Somerset, July 26th.
PSYCHOLOGY IN HACKNEY.
Sir,—A few earnest investigators into psychical phenomena
can be admitted to our Monday and Tuesday evening seances.
We have two sensitives clairvoyant, and who obtain physical
phenomena.
We are not “ Inquirers into Spiritualism,” but inquirers into
phenomena common to mesmeric sensitives, and it is simply our
desire to satisfy ourselves and others that “these signs and
wonders ” do take place, and are no respecters of belief.
We wish also, if possible, to discover Whether any other
intelligence takes part in their production than that of the sensi¬
tive and sitters.
^ Our theological tenets are of the most diverse description, but
that does not disturb the harmony of our proceedings any more
than if we were studying geology, botany, or any of the sciences.
C. R. Williams,
Hon, Sec, Hackney Spiritual Evidence Society.
6, Field View-terrace, London Fields, E.,
July 29 th, 1879.
Mr. Jas. Coates, having recovered from a recent severe
indisposition, will resume his Sunday morning lectures at the
rooms of the Glasgow Association of Spiritualists, at 11 a.m.,
August 3rd. Messrs. Duguid, Morse, Wallis, and Coates will
occupy in succession the platform of the society during the month
of August. .
Mrs. ^Weldon’s musical evenings at Tavistock House, Tavi-
stock-square, are well-attended and highly popular. Mr. J. W.
Fletcher will give trance addresses there on Tuesday evenings
during the month of August. Last Tuesday night Mrs. Weldon
gave a lecture to the Marylebone Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism, and told how narrowly she escaped the madhouse-
keepers sent to seize her, although those who had seen most of
her immediately before and after the attempt knew that she was
sane. Her address was warmly received, and at the close she
made a collection for the benefit of the Association.
60
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 1, 1879.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size,
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies'post free for 21s.
Copies may also be had bound in half calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d.
per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture-
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleeo Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage-
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator-
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Teaching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, Ac. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characteis—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—^Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
.—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley's Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:— Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis—Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, British Museum=street, London,
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact mat manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great mov«ment of modem Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena :—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
r Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower „their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether,
Aug. M 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST
in
MRS. WELDON (Miss Treherne) will
read a short ADDRESS, “ How I Escaped the
Mad Doctors,’’ and make a few remarks on the trial of
Qneen v. Mortimer, Weldon v. London Figaro. Will
sing Mrs. Edward Fitz-Gerald’s celebrated ballad,
“ I Remember how my Childhood fleeted by,” Gounod's
“O Happy Home and Better Land,’’ Urich’s “Pity the
Wives and Babes at Home,” and “ Night Thoughts,”
by Mrs. Weldon. On Monday evening, July 28, at
8 p.m., at Quebec Hall, 25, Great Quebec-street, Mary-
lebone-road, close to Baker-street Station. Admission
free. Collection at close.
British national associa-
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c.t apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m. 
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
OFFICES—Gj Akerman Road, Bristol.
The object of the Society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well-known mediums, and are entitled to the use of
books on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
Mrs. WELDON’S WEDNESDAY
RECITALS. Mrs. Weldon gives an Evening’s
entertainment weekly, at Tavistock House, her re¬
sidence (formerly Charles Dickens’). The programme
is varied by a short Lecture, sacred and romantic;
serious and nursery songs by Gounod, Urich, and Mrs.
Weldon. Tickets to be had on application free. A
collection is made for Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage,
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London. 
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C. 
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS EROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of file poems were given.
CONTENTS.
PAM I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Farting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
PAM II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “ Birdie’s Spirit Song ”—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII.« For a’ that’’—XXIII. Words o’
Cheer - XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX, Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same authoress, a companion volume,.
price 6s. 6
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
 Museum-street, London, W.O.
T)EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes
JLU psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears oh the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris, Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie,
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges. Post
free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ OI Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tiance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind. Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta."
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of 2’he Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat,
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
‘ XVII.—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XV 1.11.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wunnbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Ejs-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Siance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. O. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Wotheriogton
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXX.VIII. — Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spirituahsm. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russell Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
!7ie Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, ted edges.
The new Book by
"M.A. (OXON),’’ on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
. Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—^Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr.
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ? — Immateriality —Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S.
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —■
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther —■ Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature-
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality-
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition, enlarged.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE
COMPARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from
Spiritualism with the idea that it is unchristian and
unscriptural. It shows (We think successfully) that
every form of mediumship, now so familiar to Spirit¬
ualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of identica
experiences. Also
HEAVEN OPENED.
Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The two bound in one, Is.
These books, consisting of messages given by
writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth,
and their group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and
sorrowing parents.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C,
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id,; Post free
for IJd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
IV
THE SPIRITtrALIST.
Aug. 1; 1879.
rpHE ALPHA; or, the Pirst Principle
l of the Human Mind; a Bevelation, hut no
Mystery. With Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait
of the Author, E. N. Dennys. 370 pages, price 3s. 6d.
“We can call to mind few hooks fit to he its fellows.”
—Athenieim.
“It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and
logic than any work we have ever read ; it is a new
revelation, and one of the most remarkable productions
ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also, just published, with engraving of the 'Author,
470 pages, price 3s. 6d.
FTIHE RELIGION OP LIPE, as exemp-
JL lifled by Jesus Christ. A series of Lectures by
the Author of “Alpha.”
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C
Now ready, 48 pp. Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS FOE AUGUST, 1879.
The Spiritual Pilgrim. Part II; by “M. A.” (Oxon)—
Some Thoughts concerning the Mystical Death; by A.
M. Howitt Watts—Sermons by a Seer ; by J. W. F.—
Materialism in Religious Circles; by J. T. Markley—
A Pioneer of Modem Spiritualism—The Popular Faith
and the Claims of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Reve¬
lation; by John S. Farmer—The Religion of the
Future—rNotes and Gleanings; Brief Mentions; Dr.
Talmage on the Future Life; A Sign of the Times;
Honour when Honour is Due; A Curious Legend;
Healing Mediumship ; Dr. Colenso ; The Rev. Joseph
Cook on the Spiritual Body; Spiritualism in Australia;
The Hopeless Sadness of Materialism — Spiritual
Lyrics; The Dual Mystery,'; byT.S.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8yo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
A LADY SPIRITUALIST AND
JLjL MEDIUM is forming a circle for inquirers,
every Monday and Thursday evening, at eight o’clock.
She wishes to engage a genuine materialisation
medium for once a week.—Kindly communicate to
A., 2, Scarsdale-villas, Kensington.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
or two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
com. Address, S. T., care of M, A. Mallet 3 Rue de
a Cossonerie, Paris.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM: H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The MorninV
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
PART \s—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—16. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joel”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes."
—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaui.
25. The Public Analyst—28. General Grant’s Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament.—29. The July Bug.— 30. The Converted
Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; consequently
any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a genuine
vein of humour, deserves the praise of al l who are not too
stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on
the contrary, some of his poems touch on the deepest
and most sacred feelings of our common humanity.
. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his ad¬
ventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is
quite one of the funniest things that has been pub-
lisbed for years. . . . The book contains quite
enough to ensure it a welcome from which its tasteful
appearance will not detract.” The Morning Post says
of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in
“ something like the same key as The Bon Gaultier
Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably suc¬
cessful result.”
From The Court Journal.
"All are of marked ability. . , . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift."
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published, and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street). Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk's account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS,
The “Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonist . ,76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ ,.76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . .7 6
The Thinker. ,, V. „ ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or'Divine Guest 7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People   7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . , .36
Harbinger of Health 7 6
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Ccnceming Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained , 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 $
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims , ,26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology , . .30
Morning Lectures .   7 6
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession ahd no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCBOFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851,
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
MIND AND MATTER.—A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penna,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street; J. M.
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample copies free.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; ahd Mr. Botighton, St.
George’s-road,
Hackney spiritual evidence
SOCIETY, 6, Field-view-terrace, London-flelds,
Ei, near Blackstone-road Members’ seance, Mondays,
8 p.m. Private materialisation stance, Tuesdays, 8 p.mi
Miss Barnes, mesmeric sensitive, who obtains good
rappings, also, as conditions favour, lights, voices,
writing, and other psychical phenomena, gives experi¬
mental stances every Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,
and Saturday, 8.15 p.m., Sixpence. Private s&mce
any time, prior arrangement, 5s. Mesmerism taught
personally or by letter, 5s. Sundays, 6.30 p.m., Mes¬
meric Healing; 7, Devotional Meeting; S,Stance.—Six¬
pence inclusive. C. R. WILLIAMS, Sec.
T3 ESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA
XV OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 83, British Museum-street, London
1/7.0.
“ T E JOURNAL DU MAGNETISME,”
X-i published every week under the editorship of
Mons, H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau; 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. These poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
XTOTTCE OF REMOVAL TO 31,
XX NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER has arranged for stances on Tuesday and
Friday afternoons, at four o’clock precisely. At home
for private sittings and mesmeric treatment; de¬
velopment for clairvoyance and other forms of
mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily; and eight
to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
CONTENTS.
The Religion of Spiritualism. By Isabel de
Steiger. No. III.—(Conclusion.)     49
The Middle Age View of Miracles....,   51
Press Opinions of Spiritual Literature  52
vThe Sleep        „  53
^Corpse Candles    03
The Travelling of the Spirit During Bodily Pros¬
tration     03
Novel Physical Phenomena       ,... 54
" The Moorish Princess    54
A Remarkable Stance. By Hensleigh Wedgwood,
J.P.     65
Mrs. Louie Lowe’s Mediumship  55
Correspondence:—The Religion of Spiritualists—
The Arya Samaj—Synchrooous Vision—A
Final Word—Psychology in Hackney......  67
Printed for the Proprietor by BeVbkidgb and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by W. H. HABftjeQHr <?3, British Museum-
street London ,W.O.
