Ueqistehisj; as a Newspaper.
 ^ @tot ggM^jct^ %mttmliffm In %mi  
No. 373. (VoL. XV.—No. 16.) LONDON I FRIDA.Y, OOTOBERi I7j 1879. Published Weekly ; Price Twopence.
: Just Published.
AN ILLUSTRATED BROADSIDE ENTITLED
THE WOHHEES OE IAIPOET, ETC.,
By SIR CHARLES ISHAM, Bart.
Price Three Halfpence, Post Free; or Ten for One Shilling.
2,000 Copies sold in two days.
PROFITS FOR ORPHANAGE.
. Sir diaries Isliam, Bart., I-iamport Hall, Northampton.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. 3?. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIR O AU M BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Tost Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of * The Theosophist,’ ” at the above address.
Now Ready.
The THIRD EDITION of Vol I. qf MR, SERJEANT COX'S
MECHANISI OE IAI.
Price 10b. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Vol. II., completing the work, and treating of “ The Mechanism in Action,’
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s, 6d.
Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published,
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs, Remington and Co., Arttndel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
JAMES IALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Eer Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 37, 1879
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FEANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
ME. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At home every day except Snnday),
Will lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night. . -
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. fid. Trubner and Oo., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT - IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).’
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Sjuritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
Br CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C..
DR. NICHOLS’ FOOD OF HEALTH.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &o.
One Meal a Day will hive Health to Thousands
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &e.
Just Published.
THE FIBST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM . H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. Cd.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
' LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
IGF, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Church (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can he built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes,all pangs
and pains cUsappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
■ a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality. _
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written ihe tractions,
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
F. O. MATTHEWS,
CLAIRVOYANT, TRANCE, TEST AND
HEALING MEDIUM,
35, CAVENDISH TERRACE, WEST HILL PARK
HALIFAX, YORKSHIRE.
MR. A. H. FIRMAN
(MecVum of Count de Bullet)
Will hold his
HOME CIRCLE
Every Tuesday and Friday Evening at Half-past Eight
o’clock, at his Rooms,
26, SOUTHAMPTON ROW, LONDON.
Mr. Firman will be.at home every day, except Sun¬
day, from 12 till 5, to make arrangements for Private
Sittings.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MR& WOODFORDE, Developing
• and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business—Mondays, Wednesdays
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Notice of removal to 31,
NEW BOND STREET, LONDON. W. MRS.
PARKER has arranged for seances on Tuesday and
Friday afternoons, at four o’clock precisely. At home
for private sittings and mesmeric treatment; de¬
velopment for clairvoyance and other forms of
mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily; and eight
to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
\H DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for lid.; or six copies post free for 6d.
$* to ttf to Sctoca and £th;ic$ #f SpittitttaUsm*
No. 373.—VotujviE fifteen; Number sixteen,
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17th, 1879.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Pbice Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRIS ON.
33, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist:—
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia, Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. B. F. Burton, F.E.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
C. O. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.E.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.B.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
0. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel.E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq,, F.B.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 83, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Boyal,Paris; 2,Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Paris!, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne ; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Eue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth;. 81, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
THE SOUL OE THINGS, by William Dentou. In this
extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 83, British Museum-street, London, W.O,
TWO PUBLIC MEMORIALS.
THE FIGHT FOE L I F E - D I B E C T 0 B S HI P.
There is no competition for seats on the Council
of the National Association of Spiritualists, it being
so enormously large. For example, at the last general
meeting there were more vacancies than candidates
nominated to fill them, so all the nominees walked
in unopposed for want of a contest to give power of
selection. The effect of this system is that many
people are on the Council, and have been on it for
years, whose names are otherwise entirely unknown
to Spiritualists at large, and who have never rendered
any public services to the movement. About three
fourths the “ working ” members consist of such
persons, and include some who have not only never
done good public work, but have been centres of
strife and dissension for years. Any resolutions
passed by this small clique about important
subjects may at any time, by finding their way
into the newspapers, commit the whole move¬
ment in the minds of the public; furthermore,
as the Association is not enrolled under the Limited
Liability Act, any mistakes made by a majority of
irremovable working directors, almost unknown to
the members whose affairs they conduct, might haye
serious consequences. For instance, they have been
searching round for a newspaper which would print
reports of their proceedings under their pay, but
without the word “advertisement” at the top, or
anything to show the public they are reading
subsidised literature. At last they found one to
accept the honourable position. Lawyers perhaps
can say whether, if any libel against anybody should
be printed under these conditions, the private estates
of the members of the Association are not liable for
the liquidation of damages, insertion of the reports
being paid for by the Association. The effect of
such measures has been that many of those once
on the Council who are noted for their public
services, and who knew from personal attendance and
observation how the business is conducted, marked
their opinion of it by resigning on the Council, or
quitting the Association altogether. Mr. C. C. Massey,
of the Temple, remained as long as he could, and
had the most complete personal and direct know¬
ledge of their acts, but at last he printed in these
pages that he was “ disgusted ” into retirement. In
182
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 17, 1879.
fact, only two or three persons known for good |<
public work in Spiritualism have been found to act 11
with the working members.
This condition of things led to the forwarding of j <
two memorials to the Council. The first has been j<
already published, but we reprint it in order to put j <
the whole case clearly:— j j
A REQUEST FOR A GENERAL VOTE UPON A QUESTION OF
CONSTITUTION. K
To the Council of the British National Association of | (
Spiritualists. j)
We, the undersigned members of the British n
National Association of Spiritualists, think that a {<
Constitution of any public body, which practically |
keeps the managers permanently in office, and leaves j \
no power to change them, is not-a good Consti- K
tution. 1 |/
We also desire to point out that, at the last elec- j)
tion of the members of our own Council, we were j\
compelled, without option, to elect or re-elect every- j(
body on the list you sent us; because, in conse- j
quence of the unusual size of the Council, there !>
were not enough candidates for the vacant chairs to |(
permit our voting over even a single seat.
Furthermore, in the previous year, 1878, there I)
was only contest enough to allow us to vote out or in If
no more than three or four members of our Council, k
out of a long list of names you sent us.
Therefore, since early in 1877, we have had no K
power of voting out or in more than three or four of j)
our managers, out of a total number amounting K
nominally to more than seventy, and actually to jj
nearly sixty.
Thus the managers of the National Association j)
of Spiritualists are practically managers for life, ^ j \
unless we take violent measures to change them—
such as by calling a special meeting of members to ||
do it, or annually nominating for the vacant chairs j)
more than two dozen new members for an already K
too large Council, to enable us to vote for or against |)
the names on the annual lists you send us. Such R
violent action of ours, even if it were necessary, | /
would be as likely to kill the Association as to A
enable us, as we desire, to choose our representa- i)
tives.
We, therefore, respectfully ask that on receipt of \\
this you will send a circular to all the members of R
the Association , (accompanied by voting papers, and j \
an unabridged verbatim copy of this memorial), n
requesting them to inform you by vote whether they j
would like the Constitution of our Association to be n
altered, and the Council of the Association to be re- j {
constructed before the winter active work begins, by K
an immediate general election of all the future |)
members of the Council; and by the reduction, at R
the same time, of their total number to twenty, ||
including all unpaid officers. Even this, we believe, I {
will be a large Council for an association like ours, ||
which contains but three or four hundred ordinary !)
members in all. We believe that all the members of j<
the present Council, who have done most good public | j
work, will be glad of the proposed opportunity of R
allowing the members to express their opinion of
that work by voting thereupon.
* N. F. Da we, London.
* Thomas Hayle, Rochdale.
* M. J. Walhouse, London.
E. L. Bellew, London.
C. Burton Burton, Langton Hall.
Henry Cook, Hackney.
S. Emmet, London.
f R. Hannah, London.
W. H. Harrison, London.
Mary T. Ker, Margate.
Priscilla Ottley, London.
Emma D. Ponder, London.
Judith A. Ponder, London.
H. K. Rudd, London.
James Smyth, Budleigh Salterton.
A. C. Swinton, Eastbourne.
Amelia Williamson, Gipsy Hill.
Ellen Williamson, Gipsy Hill.
Subsequently the following Memorial was also
sent in :—
life directorship.
To the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
We, the undersigned members of your Association,
have heard a rumour that some who hold seats on
your Council contemplate referring the points in the
recent memorial about life directorship to a general
meeting of members.
At the last general meeting in May, twenty-one
members of the Council of that time were present,
and but twelve ordinary members.
We consider that the question of life directorship
is one which in any organisation ought to be decided
by the members, and not by the directors them¬
selves.
Also, that if, instead of asking the several
hundreds of our ordinary members to vote upon the
memorial as we requested, you refer this matter to about
twelve ordinary members at a general meeting, with
perhaps twenty councillors present, able to outvote
them if necessary, the resulting “position” will be
worse than the present one. An appearance of
ascertaining the wishes of all the members will have
been substituted for the reality.
Many of us live far from London, and cannot
attend meetings in Great Russell-street. Some of us
do not desire to attend meetings where there may be
a war of words, but would like to give a quiet vote by
post.
By sending our voting papers yOu can not only
ascertain accurately the wishes of the members at
large, but do it with expedition. It is just as easy to
post off voting papers (as you did some years ago over
another constitutional question) to us, accompanied
by the memorial, as to post us circulars calling a
general meeting. By adopting our plan you can in a
few days put a stop to the major dissensions in the
National Association, instead of keeping them open
for months.
Lastly, we desire to point out with what alacrity
and pleasure every councillor wTho is conscious of
having done valuable public work, would be likely to
take steps to abolish life directorship, and to come
* These are members of the Council. Mr. Dawe resigned some time ago,
but his name was kept on the list without his knowledge or consent.—Ed.
f Mr. Hannah subscribed the last paragraph of the memorial only, saying:—
“ I have no personal knowledge of what goes before the last paragraph, of
which I quite approve.”—Ed
Oct. 17. 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 183
within the range of the votes of his constituents; also
how strongly he would object to any delay.
Rightly or wrongly (on which point we express no
opinion), many Spiritualists noted for their public
services have been alienated from the Association of
late, and there may or may not be many more
resignations at the end of the financial year. It
will be a good thing if taking the impartial
votes of the members at large, in accordance with
the memorial, should remove any standing causes
of alienation during the active season shortly be¬
ginning.
N. F. Dawe, London.
M. J. Walhouse, London.
E. L. Bellew, London.
C. Burton Burton, Langton Hall.
Henry Cook, Hackney.
S. Emmet, London.
R. Hannah, London.
W. H. Harrison, London.
Mary Tennyson Ker, Margate.
Priscilla Ottley, London.
Emma D. Ponder, London.
Judith A. Ponder, London.
H. K. Rudd, London.
James Smyth, Aingerville, France.
A. C. Swinton, Eastbourne. .
Amelia Williamson, Gipsy Hill.
Ellen Williamson, Gipsy Hill.
October, 1879.
Among the above signatures is that of Mr. Wal¬
house, a member of the Council, and an ex-Indian
Judge ; he is also a member of the Council of the
Anthropological Institute. He is one of those who
knows for himself, by occasional personal attendance,
how the present managers of the National Association
of Spiritualists perform their work. Among the
signatures is also that of Mrs. Tennyson Ker, sister of
the Poet Laureate.
The above Memorial was read at the Council
meeting last Tuesday. Mr. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A.,
then moved, and Mr. March seconded, that it be laid
on the table, after which no further notice was taken
of it.
Mr. Stainton-Moses, Chairman of the General
Purposes Committee, subsequently read the report of
the Committee, which, in answer to the first Memorial,
set forth that there was nothing in the rules per¬
mitting the Council to take the course asked by the
Memorialists, and that they could bring their case
before the next general meeting in May, 1880. It
also recommended the printing and distribution of
a thousand copies of a long circular, exposing what
it called the misrepresentations of The Spiritualist
newspaper. The report was adopted.
The Secretary, perhaps under orders, refused to let
us copy this report, or it would have been printed
herein.
The members who do not respect the present
Council are far more likely to quietly resign than to
attend a turbulent general meeting, with perhaps
fifteen or more Councillors present, fighting against
voting papers being sent out. But the Council is
sj under orders from the) members to call a general
I meeting before May. At the annual general meeting
j in May, 1876, the members unanimously passed the
>| following resolution, originated by Mr. G. R. Tapp :—
“ That in addition to the annual general meeting
)j in May, another general meeting be held in each
| year.” .
Since then the Council has quietly paid no atten-
n tion to the above order. It has never called the
j j second meeting, which would slightly bring it before
) i its constituents once in six months.
|| As to the “ misrepresentations55 of The Spirit-
U ualist, they will be found in The Spiritualist of
j May 9th, 1879, and consist chiefly of fourteen
)j motions, copied from the minute book of the Council,
)j and signed by the chairman, after the Council had
)| dealt with them. We assert that nearly everybody
I i (not a Councillor) who studies them, will decide that
the present Council deserves condemnation, on the
> j ground of the work it has done as entered in its own
|| minute book.
); But the Memorialists have made no allusion either
\ | in the wicked Spiritualist newspaper (which refused
<i the honourable offer of the Council to print reports
/! under its pay unless the word “ advertisement ” were
! printed at the top of them), or to Mr. Harrison.
\j They raised great public questions, and nothing
} \ personal, and it is hard upon them that discussions
) i on public principles have been dragged down into the
)j region of personalities.
When it was resolved, some years ago, to let the
<| members at large sign voting papers about the
<| “ Christianity Clause,” no rule was found to conve-
) | niently stick in the way. But men of a different
jj stamp are at the helm now.
>! The Councillors present at last Tuesday’s meeting
were Mr. March, Mr. E. D. Rogers, Mr. E. T.
(| Bennett, Mr. Stainton-Moses, Miss Houghton, Mr. J.
)j W. Fletcher, Mrs. Maltby, Mr. Pearce, Dr. S. T.
)| Speer, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs. Desmond
\ | Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Pearson, Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr.
| F. Podmore, and Mr. Calder, the president. Mr.
)j Podmore did not vote.
The General Purposes Committee consists of Mr.
): Stainton-Moses (chairman), Mr. E. D. Rogers, Mr. E.
II T. Bennett, Mr. A. Calder, Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mr.
11 J. W. Fletcher, Mr. Theobald, Mr. March, Mr. Pearce,
h Dr. Speer, Mr. H. Wedgwood, Dr. George Wyld, and
)j Mr. F. W. Percival. So much secrecy prevails that
)[' the public have no means of ascertaining who of
V; these were present when any particular decision was
( j arrived at. According to the mode of procedure on
) i the part of town councils, any such secrecy or power
) | of conducting secret work is impossible, but the
) I Council of the National Association of Spiritualists
> I by vote rejected that system.
184
THE SPIRI
“ SPIBITUALISM AND THE CHUBCH OF
ENGLAND.” ' I |
BY ISABEL DE STEIGER.
The above is the title of a short paper 'written hy ]sj
“ A Young Clergyman ” concerning another hy Mr. Kj
Farquhar, in The Spiritualist oi September 20, on |)|
“ What May he Known of God.” , . ! ■ m
The first, the one hy Mr. Farquhar, is the work j§|
evidently of a mind which has deeply sounded the I (|
religious thought of this and preceding ages. i)|
There is neither haze nor confusion apparent to |(j
me, either in the conception or in the expounding of ||
his ideas; consequently it appears to me also that Kj
there is more in the result than “abstraction or m
generality,” though these are qualities which, in their Kj
places, are to be admired. j)j
“ Philosophic calm,” as a rule, is the natural repose jji
the soul attains when, after being tossed to and fro j)j
hy mental disquietude and uncertainty, conviction Kj
seizes it in its sure grasp. This “philosophic calm,” j/j
a haven of peace, where "most persons fain would be, j \ j
deeply tinges every thought in this paper of Mr. j/j
Farquhars, and one feels in it the influence of a K|
mind at peace. In no other frame of mind could j)j
any one he in the mental condition to conceive or m
write so beautiful an essay as the one to which both j/j
“ A Young Clergyman ” and myself refer.
The author of the paper, “What May be Known j<j
of God,” evidently has the advantage of writing on j)j
a subject he has deeply studied and well understands, j< j
and he only writes out of the abundance of material; j)j
whereas “A Young Clergyman” is labouring under In
the disadvantage of opposing circumstances, and m
doubtless is doing what many happily are doing at jn
this moment, only inquiring into Spiritualism. He 11
should, therefore, be pardoned if he fails to appreciate j (j
Mr. Farquhars stored philosophic mind. j)j
It is difficult to write for various classes of minds, jll
and those in different stages of development; and j)j
Mr. Farquhar’s papers are evidently not meant for |<f
young students in theosophy and Spiritualism. Mr. j)j
Farquhar also chooses his audience, and knowing j\j
that neither “ costermongers” nor “ needy knife- j/j
grinders ” will be among it, he very properly writes j (j
to suit this audience. Perhaps if required he could j/j
and would easily find words also to suit the needs of j<j
those poor beings, for out of a deep well much water j) j
can come. It is our misfortune, I imagine, if we j(j
fail to appreciate the striking beauty and profound j/j
thought in his paper, one redolent not only of “ phi- j \ j
losophic calm” but of mental aspiration, suggestive j/j
of such vast realms of thought that life seems all j\j
too short to enjoy its fruition. j/j
There is no inaction in earnest aspiration, and the j(j
search after Divine knowledge, as enjoined and ex- j/j
plained in his paper, means something altogether Kj
opposed to mental passivity and, with it, bodily sloth, j/j
The whole aim and object of the paper is to raise our j sj
souls or spirits—(I am afraid of words and terms, but j / j
I will decide on “soul”)—our souls to a higher plat- j\j
form of thought, and to place our aim towards j/j
appreciating Divine excellence on a loftier height; jsj
in short, to kindle in each of us the spark of j/j
Divinity latent in all. This higher platform of m
thought only increases the view upwards, and our ffl
CTJALIST. Oct. 17, 1879.
horizon expands. It may diminish the objects left
on lower planes.
If we ascend in a balloon, and we begin to appre¬
ciate quietly some hitherto unfelt and unappreciated
sense of space, so at the same time we begin to
appreciate in also a hitherto unsuspected manner a
truer sense of dimension, and as we soar upwards we
begin to think differently ; we do not deny facts of
size or height, we only say, as^the objects are fading
from our eyes, that after all size is relative. So it is
when we are raised to a higher plane of thought; we
then necessarily feel the philosophic calm brooding
over us, as more and more truly do we realise the
relative value of various phrases and schools of
thought, beginning with the history of our own
minds. Neither from want of feeling nor of know¬
ledge, but from a juster appreciation of the value of
what we formerly thought all-important, does this
philosophic calm proceed.
The differences and rivalries and histories of all
creeds and ideas, must all sink in time to their real
proportions. They will be looked .upon in their true
ones as the mind becomes properly balanced, neither
too near to exaggerate them, nor too far to overlook
them; and a true theosophic mind will study with
no diminished interest all the various searches after
God, exemplified in man’s various religions, all coming
from the same Divine Source, to suit the require¬
ments of each race and age.
There is neither indifference nor coldness in this
view ; it is only that the time has come when all the
noblest thoughts of antiquity, of the Middle Ages,
and of the present are gathering such force and
strength that already some few minds are standing
lonely on fresh ground which by-and-by many will
occupy. From this standpoint such a mind can view
the turmoils of the past, religious and otherwise, not
in slothful calm, but in the profound repose pre¬
paratory to great effort, full of joyous life, and so
brimming over with the consciousness and activity of
new thought engendered by the vast area of the new
horizon he sees round him, that he can well afford,
and indeed can do nothing else but regard with
philosophic calm all that lies below him, and all that
he has passed from and through as he journeyed
upwards. In this state dawns upon the man the
first feeling of that peace that passeth understanding,
and with it comes also the consciousness that this is
only a mystery on a lower plane of thought, and as
this mystery unveils there comes also the conception
of the Divinity.
After this, creeds become words, not to be despised,
or their value unjustly or unfairly estimated; but
exactly the reverse will take place, and creeds
then take their proper niches of the proper sizes in
history, and the battles over creeds can only be
fought by minds on the lower planes of thought.
This higher level, where confusion disappears and
order reigns, is, I surmise, not yet arrived at by “ A
Young Clergyman.” To begin with, he admits he
knows of Spiritualism only some little derived
through other minds ; nothing much through his
own. Still some of its teachings seem to have
entered into his thoughts, for he says that his
“ inclination to believe in Spiritualism has lent
greater vividness to various parts of the New Testa-
Oct. 17, 1879.
THE SPIKITTJALIST.
185
ment,” &c. In fact, doubtless, they now seem to ; j j
him truthful and possible records in which he can | (
■ believe with his intellect wide awake, whereas j>
before, he smothered his reasoniug powers and j(
accepted blindly. This is nothing new to Spirit- j)
ualists, for by the new light of Spiritualism the K
whole Bible becomes radiant with the light of truth, ;
and we know also better how and when to accept its K
Spirit Teachings. ' ' . ..mre*scuff- •; n
Again, “ A Young Clergyman ” shows what a short j(
time he has given to the subject upon which he writes j>
by asking “why” professed Spiritualists formulate j(
“ a creed of their own ? ” Next he says, “If there ;
be a distinctive creed, what is it ? ”
He refuses to accuse popular theology of “im- |)
perfect psychology,” because, he says, body, soul, and j(
spirit are recognised by the Church catechism ! The j \
Church catechism has, doubtless, done some good ; but m
who among us who have been enlightened by what we j)
have learned beyond and above this catechism would K
ever go back to its teachings ? It is difficult to jO
imagine what our notions of psychology really would K
be, had we no other source of instruction but that m
catechism!
Some, many, most of us forget it as we grow [|
■older; childish things are put away, and a great K
many of us never learned it. The pyschology j)
of the catechism may suit a childish age, but K
it is not food for men. Now as to the “popular j)
audiences” appreciated by “A Young Clergyman.” K
As a rule, they require very much more thorough |)
education than that which they get; if they jv
had more bread and few6r stones given to them by $
way of food from the pulpits, then the “popular K
.audiences,” which cannot now appreciate Mr. 0
Earquhar’s “ Thoughts on God,” would soon learn to \h
do so. As it is, his thoughts might be pearls thrown !)
to swine ; as well might Huxley expound to plough- j<
men, as Mr. Farquhar to most “ popular audiences.” |)
Neither would he be “ understanded of the people.” K
When all popular audiences are so far educated that j>
the thick veil of ignorance shrouding so many minds K
is torn asunder, then possibly a better state of j)
things may exist in all conditions of life, and K
there may be. and will be then neither “knots of |)
costermongers ” nor “needy knife-grinders.” Life, ||
as an existence, ought never to be such a grind as it j|
is for any poor immortal.
As to “feeding the hungry” and “healing the jj
wounded,” removable troubles may still occur in all K
ranks of life at all stages of the history of the soul, I)
and many minds of another order to those referred to K
by “ A Young Clergyman ” are fed andean be fed by |j
Mr. Farquhar’s noble ideas and lofty thoughts, and <
many wounds can be healed by the consolation he
gives. In Mr. Farquhar’s views I see no “earth- H
born system,” but one freed from the stains of earth ; jj
and therefore if one can apply the word “system,” j\
as “A Young Clergyman” does, it is one adapted jj
towards aiding the soul in its upward flight. It is K
true this is meeting assertion with assertion. I only j)
give it as the assertion of my opinion ; but still it |\
it appears to me, if it were an “earth-born system,” jj
it would on the contrary be eminently adapted to suit j\
the needs of popular audiences, costermongers, and jj
knife-grinders. , I)
The society formed at Cambridge is a valuable
beginning, as it indicates a centre of mental activity
in its own sphere ; but its subsequent value will
depend only so far as it reaches or outstrips other
students in these subjects, and I cannot but think
that while “ A Young Clergyman ” is evidently only
as yet in an early stage of spiritual philosophy, it
would be as well for him to continue his studies before
he ventures to say that it strikes him “that a
Spiritualist ought logically to be more than half a
Christian.”
A Spiritualist can be half nothing. He wills to
be, or she wills to be, in his and her aims and aspira¬
tions, desires and labours in the future, neither more
nor less than a whole Divine Man and a whole Divine
Woman.
THE THEOSOPHIC SOCIETY AND SPIRITUALISM.
BY J. W. FARQUHAR.
A few words in explanation of the relation of the
Theosophic Society to Spiritualism and to creeds.
As a society we have no other creed than that stated
in the first paragraph of my paper—“Belief in a great
first intelligent cause, in the Divine Sonship of the
Spirit of Man, and hence in the immortality of that
Spirit, and in the universal brotherhood of the human
race.” Theosophists are so far, and no further, Spirit¬
ualists with all sincere clergymen, young or old, with
all intelligent members of the Church of England, and
all other religious denominations who can accept that
statement of faith. On such basis we are, as theo¬
sophists, simply inquirers, learners, and helpers of
each other.
If the “Young Clergyman” had not put the
qualifying adjective to his designation I should have
been as much astonished at his confession of surprise as
he is at my assertion that the Aryan knowledge of
God is more advanced than the Semitic. Is it not so?
Otherwise, why is not the writer of “ Spiritualism and
the Church of England ” a Jewish rabbi rather than a
Christian preacher ? I thankfully acknowledge the
world’s indebtedness to the Semitic race for maintain¬
ing the Divine Unity. But the descendants of the
“Romans, and of our Gothic ancestors,” have risen
from a lower conception of Deity to a higher than the
Semitic races can as yet receive, viz., the union of
Deity with Humanity, or the Divine Humanity; a
faith which is the basis of endless progress in science
and art.
While thanking the writer for his suggestion that
I should “ try my skill in preaching to a popular
audience,” I beg to refer him to an authority of his
church—St. Paul—who, in Ephesians iv. 11, treating
of diversities of spiritual gifts, enumerates apostles,
prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers. While I
heartily acknowledge the great need of “evangelists ”
for “ costermongers and needy knife-grinders,” I am
content with the last and lowliest office of “teacher” of
young clergymen and others to aid in qualifying them
for the higher vocations of evangelists and pastors.
I am glad to find a seal of my calling in the writer’s
acknowledgment of his extreme indebtedness to me
for an exposition of the mystery of'the Trinity, &e.
October 11,18V0.
186
THE SPIRI
NEW DISCO YE EIES IN SPIRITUALISM.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
The new self-recording machinery for registering j j
changes in the weight of the bodies of mediums /
during the production of spiritual manifestations j
was completed three weeks ago, and after two pre- j
liminary trials to get everything into good working j j
order, the diagram represented upon a reduced scale I /
on another page was obtained during a stance with j j
Mr. Haxby; a statistical summary of the indications 11
given by the diagram is printed on another page.
The apparatus is fitted up in a room adjoining j
The Spiritualist branch office, at 33, Museum-street, j \
London. The investigators are Mr. Charles Black- j
burn, of Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester (who j\
has generously had the apparatus constructed at his !
sole cost, to promote original research in Spiritualism); | j
Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. C. C. Massey, Mr. G. C. Joad, \\
and myself. The apparatus was made by Mr. If
Frederick Yarley, Telegraph Works, Mildmay-park, |
London.
DESCRIPTION OF THE APPARATUS USED. |<
Fig. 1 gives a general view of the apparatus from j)
the front. It consists of a wooden cabinet, suspended j
from a two-armed iron scale beam, by means of |)
curved iron rods, represented below A and B. Two jf
points of suspension are given to the cabinet, instead j}
of one, to increase its steadiness. At the sides, near i f
the bottom, it is attached also to two guiding |)
arms, one of which is shown in the engraving. The j j
arms near the bottom move parallel to the positions !
of the arms at the top; they serve to steady the cabinet, |
without introducing the friction which would occur |
were the lower part of the cabinet made to slide up j>
and down iron rods fixed in the floor or elsewhere; <
with such rods great errors in the weight-records are j
produced, according to the position occupied by the <
weight on the floor of the cabinet. With the present
cabinet if 150 lbs. be placed on the front edge of the <
cabinet, or right at the back of the cabinet, it is found j
by experiment that the amount of weight recorded j
is practically the same. At first the cabinet was j)
mounted on pulley wheels and ropes, but these were R
found to give 5 lbs. or 6 lbs. insensitiveness due to j /
friction. At present, when the cabinet settles down \
from an oscillating motion to a position of rest, it |)
indicates accurately to within half or quarter of a j\
pound, and as there are about 350 lbs. on each side of |/
the scale beam when an average-sized man is in the j
cabinet with a chair, the above variation due to {/
friction is satisfactorily small. If oscillating motions j (
be prevented, and when attempts are made to get the j|
cabinet to remain in untrue positions, only about 1 lb. j
error can be produced at any part of the scale, and j)
the amount of such liability to error at any part of !
scale I have ascertained by experiment, and tabulated. I)
Practically speaking, the weights indicated on the n
diagrams are true within about | lb., which is much j \
greater accuracy than we expected to be able to j)
ascertain with 700 lbs. in all on the scale beam. The |<
wooden cabinet weighs about 200 lbs.; its weight j >
tends to give steadiness. The lighter the cabinet j
the more jerky would be its motions. Its dimen- H
sions are about a yard square by a little more than I (
six feet high; it is substantially built of wood, H
T UAL I ST. Oct, 17, 1879.
The apparatus at the back of the cabinet is repre¬
sented in Fig. 2. In this engraving the iron weight
counterbalancing the empty cabinet is seen at A.
Below this is the screw and hook gear connecting the
lever arm with the spring balance, and the whole of
the general arrangement of the recording machinery
is depicted in perspective.
Fig. 3 is an enlarged view of the self-recording
apparatus. The brass screw C serves to adjust the
length of the gear connecting the spring balance
with the scale beam above. A is the recording drum,
which when in use is surrounded by a sheet of white
paper, 4 feet long by 13£ inches wide. The drum
is driven by the clock B at such a rate that in two
hours a diagram nearly four feet long is obtained.
The drum, which is of zinc, is partly driven by the
weight C, acting by means of a piece of catgut upon
the wheel attached to the centre of the top of the
drum; this weight thus relieves the clock of most of
its work of driving the drum, and leaves the clock
little else to do but to make the drum keep true
time. F is a base-board of walnut-wood. E is the
stand of two vertical brass rods, up and down which
the pencil moves. The spring balance itself has a
joggling horizontal motion, partly due to the “pull”
of the scale beam necessarily not being always in the
same straight line, as the end of it describes an arc.
These horizontal irregularities are not communicated
to the pencil, which responds only to changes in
Weight, and with a truly vertical rise and fall up and
down the brass rods. The paper is temporarily
fastened to the drum by clips, one of which is shown
at A, and the extreme ends of the paper are then
gummed together. There are three clips at the top
edge of the drum, and three at the bottom edge.
The spring balance will indicate weights from 0 to
200 lbs., and has a range of twelve inches.
The arrangement to prevent the horizontal irregu¬
larities of motion of the balance being communicated
to the pencil is shown in detail in Fig. 4. F, F, are
portions of the vertical slide-rods already mentioned ;
two tabes E, E, attached to the brass plate E, H, D,
slide up and down these rods. The pencil is carried
by the top of the lever arm D, and its pressure
against the drum is partly regulated by the spring
H, and partly by the power of varying its position in
the collar at the top of the lever arm D. The
bent arm A, from the spring balance, may joggle
horizontally to any extent in the slot B in the brass
plate without moving it, but directly A rises or falls,
up or down go the brass plate and pencil.
Most of the improvements in this apparatus over
the machine formerly constructed for Mr. Blackburn
were designed by Mr. Frederick Yarley. I tested
the action of the parts occasionally during the work
of construction, and improvements were made from
time to time. The friction of the cabinet and the
action of the spring balance are not uniform at all
altitudes, but the values of the indications of the
balance at all levels have been ascertained by direct
experiment, and a corrected scale drawn up there¬
from for ordinary use. This corrected scale is the
one applied to the diagram on another page of the
seance with Mr. Haxby. At present the apparatus
gives complete satisfaction, and is as perfectly adapted
for the work it has to do as could be desired. The
2,
Oct. 17, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
189
experimentalists are thoroughly well pleased with its
action when in use.
THE FIRST SEANCE WITH THE NEW APPARATUS.
After two preliminary stances to try the apparatus
and method of working, and to correct errors in
both, what may be called the first seance proper took
place, with Mr. Haxby as medium, on Tuesday, Oct,
7th, 1879. Mr. Haxby entered the cabinet at 8.2
p.m., and left it at 4.33 p.m., the total duration of
the stance being thus 91 minutes. The diagram
drawn by the apparatus is represented on another
page, but reduced in size, the original being more
than 2 ft. long. In the reduction many of the finer
details and vibrations are necessarily lost. The
figures near the vertical line near the beginning of
the diagram represent weight in pounds, and the
figures near the horizontal line at the bottom of the
diagram represent minutes of time from the moment
the medium entered the cabinet.
Mr. C. 0. Massey, Mr. Blackburn, Mr. Joad, and
myself were present at this seance, and sat on chairs
varying from five feet to two yards and a half from
the front of the cabinet. All objects possessing
weight and available for being slipped into the
cabinet in the dark, had been previously removed
from the room. If any medium looks out of the
cabinet for some object possessing weight to put in
it while he leaves it, there is nothing available for
the purpose.
First of all, the pencil in a state of rest, with no
weight in the cabinet, drew a horizontal line, because
of the steady rotation of the drum before its point.
Then a chair was put in the cabinet, and after a
vertical vibration of the pencil a higher horizontal
line was drawn, marking a weight in the cabinet of
14 lbs. After a minute or two the medium entered
and took his seat, and the time was noted. After a
vibration or two the pencil indicated an additional
weight in the cabinet of 129 lbs., representing Mr.
Haxby and his clothes : total weight now in the
cabinet (including chair), 143 lbs. These lines are
always taken in the light, which is afterwards put
out or lowered.
In the rest of this article I will leave the chair out
of the calculation, and deal only with the changes
from the 129 lbs. normal weight of Mr. Haxby.
On reference to the large diagram on page 190, it
will be seen that 11| minutes from the beginning of
the seance there was a reduction, marked A, of the
weight in the cabinet, which increased irregularly
until it reached a maximum of 20 lbs.; after the
lapse of 3j minutes the normal weight in the
cabinet was restored. No manifestations corre¬
sponding with this temporary decrease were observed ;
the same kind of decrease is to be found in other
diagrams, and a short time hence I will publish
some speculative ideas in relation to its cause.
At B, 22 minutes, a removal of 93 lbs. was indi¬
cated; which a minute later increased to 95, leaving
34 lbs. in the cabinet, but at 24 minutes the normal
weight was restored. My notes made at the time
show that from 22 to 24 a draped form came out,
touched Mr. Massey and Mr. Joad, and allowed Mr.
Blackburn to feel its arm, then returned to the
,cabinet.
During this seance light enough leaked into the
<| room through cracks in the shutters to let us see
j | where the forms were as they moved from place to
j ! place; sometimes they brought their own light to
j | let us see their features, and sometimes they stood
\\ alongside me, and the phosphorus lamp I was using
>i to make the records, and they bore light enough
j| from my lamp to let me see their features. On such
] occasions their feet stood from six to seven feet from the
I centre of the front edge of the cabinet. My lamp I
I will describe, and a ground plan of the positions %
| will give, on another occasion.
At 27 minutes, C, the same form came out, took
I Mr. Blackburn’s cigars from him, and handed them
? | to Mr. Massey. At 32 minutes it re-entered the
j j cabinet. It was out of the cabinet for five minutes,
/ j during which time there was a quivering weight in
the cabinet of 21 lbs. The weight missing from
/j the cabinet was 108 lbs.
I At D, 35|- minutes, “ John King’s ” form, bearing a
i light, came out for 9| minutes, leaving a weight of
| 49 lbs. in the cabinet; the weight missing from the
j cabinet was 80 lbs. While he stood six feet from
j the cabinet, I saw his living features plainly, and at
i this moment something fell in the cabinet. He
| returned and picked it up, saying that it was a key
j from the medium’s pocket. At 45 minutes he
j returned to the cabinet, and by the marks on the
i diagram seems to have placed one foot on it for 1^
| minute before entering.
At E, 55 minutes, is a mark on the diagram, with
| no corresponding record on the part of the observers.
At 56 minutes, F, “ Abdullah ” came out. At 58
| he stood by me, with his feet seven feet from the
(j cabinet. Mr. Blackburn tried to measure his height
jj as he stood against the door near me; I felt his feet
(| at the moment, but he drew them away; they had
); socks or stockings on. At 61 minutes he walked
(1 behind the chairs of some of the sitters, who were
jj then between him and the cabinet, and his feet then
(I seven feet from the front edge of the cabinet. By per-
jj mission Mr. Blackburn felt his whiskers, and testified
(j they were growing to the skin of his face. Mr.
j j Haxby has no whiskers. After 8 minutes absence
<| from the cabinet, Abdullah returned, and all this
j j time there was a weight of 78 lbs. in the cabinet,
(j and 51 lbs. missing from it, a condition of things
jj altogether inexplicable on the theory of trickery
j without spiritual powers on the part of the medium.
Between 70 and 71 minutes, G, there was great
\ j oscillation of the cabinet without change in weight,
jj One of the spirits in the cabinet said that another
\ j was pulling it up and down to give him a ride.
At 73| minutes, H, after violent oscillations of the
\j cabinet, another form came out, and remained for
I! 21 minutes. There was then 35 lbs. in the cabinet,
(! and 94 lbs. missing. The form touched Messrs. Joad
jj and Massey, and took one of Mr. Blackburn’s cigars
(j from the table alongside him. It was afterwards
j j found in the cabinet.
( j At 78 minutes, (I), at the request of Mr. Blackburn,
jj the spirits irregularly increased for 1|- minute the
j normal weight of the cabinet, the maximum increase
j | being 7 lbs. They said that ,they did not produce
\ j the increase by raising it with materialised hands.
|| From 85 to 86 minutes there were violent oscilla-
S; tions, said to have been produced by a spirit
Oct. 17, 1879.
190
THE SPIRITUALIST,
lifting and dropping the back legs of the chair in K
the cabinet. |j
At 89 minutes a light was struck; the medium j(
was heard as if waking from a trance, and at j|
91 minutes he stepped from the cabinet. j\
A preliminary diagram, with an imperfection in it, j/
obtained with Mr. Haxby on Monday, September n
29th, is roughly represented by the sketch, Fig. 5. I j)
give it because the forms came out with much jv
regularity, and it seems, by the “ curve ’’ the depres- Iv
sions give, to indicate that in the middle of a stance j)
in which spirits keep steadily at work all the time, they j \
can take much more matter from the medium in the K
middle of a seance than at the beginning or the end.
In this diagram A is the curious depression already j;
mentioned, and amounting to 20 lbs. at the maximum, j;
At B, the weight in cabinet was 54 lbs.; out of it, 75 lbs.; j)
form out, minute ; it walked across the room and \ l
touched Mr. Joad. At .C, the weight in cabinet had j;
a maximum of' 50 lbs.; out, 79. lbs.; duration, 2 j;
minutes.. At D, 49 lbs. in cabinet, 80 out, duration t
5 minutes. At E, 28 lbs. in cabinet, 101 lbs. out of j:
cabinet; duration 2|- minutes. At F, only 10 lbs. in j)
cabinet, 119 out, duration 4 minutes. At G, 39 lbs. |(
in the cabinet, 90 lbs. out, duration 4 minutes. At i)
H, 43 lbs. in the cabinet, 86 lbs. out; duration, j{
including irregularities,: 4£ minutes. At K, a p
jarring noise in cabinet; the lifting and dropping ■!(
of the medium in his chair .might have caused it, ||
and this may, perhaps explain a similar mark on the h
diagram previously described. At L, 81 lbs. in the |)
cabinet, 48 lbs. out, duration 2 minutes. The con- K
trolling power remarked that an Indian spirit named I /
Rattlesnake wanted to come, but he was so strong H
that he would probably leave nothing of the medium I /
in the cabinet. |\
What would occur if anybody seized one of these j(
forms? There would probably be a sudden union of K
the weights inside and outside the cabinet, the ||
lesser weight flying to the greater. When the two !)
weights are of about equal amount the strain upon j 1
the nervous system of the medium would probably j j
be fearful, endangering life perhaps. • )
This article is already of too great length to n
permit indulging in comment this week on the facts j(
revealed, but it has been a. great, satisfaction to all I j
the experimentalists to know .that the. great expense l (
which Mr. Blackburn has incurredj.in constructing j)
machinery to prosecute .the. researches herein (
recorded has not been without its; reward. Of the i)
discoveries now in progress who can see the end 1 | (
and who can foretell their; future ’value to the j>
world? . • . . )
• ♦ . . ■ ||
Me. C. E. Williams has returned to London, from Switzer- j (
land, and will shortly resume his seances at Lamb’s Conduit- i \
street. j)
The Marylebone Society of Spiritualists informs us that Mr. i)
William Chapman will deliver an address on “ Eaith,” at their j)
hall, 25, Great Quebec • street, London, next Sunday, at i <
6.45 p.m. j\
The Secretary writes that the second anniversary of the j\
Hackney Spiritual Evidence Institution will take place on n
Sunday, the 26th inst. Tea on the table at five o’clock. Tickets j)
must be obtained at least a day in advance, as the number is j /
limited. After tea there will be a discussion on “ Mediumship.” j (
At seven o’clock a seance. \
A SELF-RECORDED DIAGRAM.
The above is a copy, on a greatly reduced scale, of
a diagram obtained through the mediumship of Mr.
Haxby, on Oct. 7th, 1879, with Mr. Blackburn’s new
self-recording apparatus, as described elsewhere in
this number of The Spiritualist,
At the Council meeting of the National . Association of
Spiritualists last Tuesday, four new members were elected, and
there were several' resignations. Among those who resigned
were the Countess of Caithness, Mrs. Jeffreys, Dr. Hayle, of
Rochdale, and Mr. Bonwick, E.R.G.S. The two last were
members of the Council.
WEIGHING MACHINE EXPERIMENTS,
191
Oct. 17, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
o o
f>
3!
CD ,Q
*0 05
.2 °
t>
.9^
1.9
•snoti'BjqtA snomn}noo
gnijnp itigiaM m es'B9J03Q[
jo ©S'BJOA'B ei'Buipcojddy
•jqStQjA I'Brajoj)!
toojj esBejonj utmuixuj^
•?qS[9^ iBnuo}!
raojj ©BBeioecL ranratyBj^
9
s .
^§S
S.S?
0 o
p
■3 H
•Ji'sqo
jo jqSiOjA jo OAisrqoxo
‘jamq’BO nt jqSjajA
•jqSjo^ ibotjo^i
jo ©8'B9ioax jo junoray
•}qSi9jA I'Bnuoil
raoaj nopotipgy; jo junotny
CO I
> M
fe §
•jonjq’BO
0} Sapxinjaj maoj jo 9ai|x
qgmq'BQ
8nu,B9[ ulioj^ jo (aotmas
jo SataujSoq ihojj) orajx
(M !>• CO
<M <M CO
0’S
9 9
c8
S
•jqStOjA
jo noij,8J9Jiy jo nojiiuna
•jqgpAV ibotjo^j
jo uoij'Bjojsgji jo otajx
•jqgiOAV
U| 9§a'8qo jo ouxij jMtj
rH <M
•nrBJ&BjG no
SUOJJ'BOtpUX X9I09dg 0} 90U9J9J9XT
pq o p w &i cb m
•aouvpg jo notj'eanG jiqox
'93tm?g jo
osojo ju joiqq’BQ jj9[ ranjpoj^ oratx
qouiquo paagjng; js.tq ranipaj^r oratx
9 H
P« TtC
•leniqtjQ
oqj ut jq3[9AV xuraaoxx I'Bjox
•ranjpapj (pgqjoto) gqj jo jqgt9AV
qguxq'BO
oqj nt Jtuqo ©qt jo jqSj9A\.
•cmsjS'BtG jo Jsqranjq
'mo?s jo ejna
o
as
i-O
C3S
e
6s
I am authorised by the other investigators present—Mr. Blackburn, Mr. Joad and Mr. Massey—to state that after the seance, the diagram being removed from
the drum, was examined and compared by them with my notes, and the time-measurements were found to correspond, with slight differences seldom
exceeding half-a-minute, with the times in the notes assigned to the different manifestations. W. H. Harrison.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 17, 1879.
MESMEEISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late 'Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size,
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.1
CONTENTS
(
(
CHAPTER Is—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy — Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX :—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artiflcially Produced—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, <fcc. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—-Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis's Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance. Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—■-
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley's Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV;—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
nd Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, British Museum-street, London
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Scienc:, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums shoul
not lower their strength by sitting more than' about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Oct. 17, 1870.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WOKLD ORDER:
■ Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and th@,t there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment,. Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Tes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. AlLLEN, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
BAZAAR
AT NEWCASTLE - ON - TYNE.
mHE BAZAAR in aid of the effort to
JL obtain a Lecture Boom, and Premises in this
town, more worthy of our beloved cause, will be held
in the Lecture Boom of the Newcastle Spiritual
Evidence Society, on Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday, October 28th, 29th, and 30th. Contri¬
butions towards the same, either in money or goods
for sale, will be most thankfully received by the
under-mentioned Ladies:—
Mrs. J. Mould, 12, St. Thomas-crescent, Newcastle-
en-Tyne.
Mrs. W. C. Bobson, 8, Brandling-place West, New-
castle-on-Tyne.
Mrs. W. Hunter, 89, High-street, Gateshead.
Mrs. J. Hare, 15, Chester-crescent, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
Mrs. J. Hammarborn, 117, Northumberland-street,
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Mrs. Henry Norris, 59, Nevvgate-street, Newcastle-
on-Tyne.
Miss Coltman, 4, Picton-terrace, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Miss C. E. Wood, 3, Sunderland-street, Newcastle-
on-Tyne.
Miss E. H. Elliott, Albert-drive, Low Fell, Gates¬
head.
British national associa¬
tion OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Bussell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p m to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
mHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
A oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
J 5s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
X is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Bue dc
la Cossonerie, Paris.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8 vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Coi responding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I.—“ 01 Beautiful White Mother Death.’’ Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II—The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the tiance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Bichmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treheroe) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Besurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
X VJ1I.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Bev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVI f.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Bev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Bev. O Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII. — Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs, Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Bussel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
I XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
PTIHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
X OB, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamp’ilet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Pro’©piaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d.;
post free, 6£d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 83, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
iii
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chaptee I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms
Drapery and Flowers.
Chaptee II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia^
N.Y., and Elsewhere—^Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chaptee IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chaptee V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chaptke VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances?—Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —*
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon -j- Luther — Calvin - -
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—^Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—^Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—-The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman— Kant — Strauss—Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kemer—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS PROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live ”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street London, W.C.
REVUE SPIRUE, Journal deludes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIBITTJA.LIST.
Oct. 17, 1879.
Accidental IMimtioiL
BEI'OIt.E AEB AFTEB THE
Olii^istnaas 3?mdd±rig,
HSE
EEO’S FRUIT SALT.
Evei’y Trayelling Trunk and Honsekold in the "World
ought to contain a Bottle of
ETSO’S BRUIT SAXT,
Prepared from Sound Bipe Fruit, as a Health-giving,
Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage for any
Season.
It is the hest Preventive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness
of Stomach, Constipation,Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,and
to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FBTJIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Dong may you live to be a blessing to the
■world.”
A
Stimulants and insufficient
AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache, disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c„ use
EWS EUTTIT SALT.
NATURAL APERIENT.—ENO’S
FRUIT SALT, when taken with water, acts as
a natural aperient, its simple, but natural action,
removes all impurities; thus preserving and restoring
health. If its great value in keeping the body in
health were universally known, no family would be
without it.
Fagged, weary, and worn
OUTl 11 Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue dela
Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in yesterday.
He is a constant sufferer from chronic dyspepsia, and
has taken all sorts of mineral waters. I recommended
him to give your Salt a trial, which he did, and received
great benefit. He says he never knew what it was to
be without pain until he tried your Salt, and for the
future shall never be without it in the house.”—M.
Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“After suffer¬
ing for nearly two and half years from severe
headache and disordered stomach, and after trying
almost everything and spending much money without
finding any benefit, I was recommended by a friend to
try ENO'S FRUIT SALT, and before I had finished
one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of good,
and now I am restored to my usual health ; and others
I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such good
health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert Hum¬
phreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
Success in life.”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon legal
rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in an
original channel, could not fail to secure reputation
and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
pnapked " ENO'S FRUIT SALT.'’ Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 0d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S PATENT,
at UNO’S FRUIT SALT WORKS,
Uatcham, London, S.E,
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM. H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
ther standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and tbe Author.
Contents.
PART Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—i. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shacahac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacahac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to All Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbel-bevoegung.—lS. “Poor Old Joe!”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes."
—24. The Angel of Silence.
PART 2.—The Wdbblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wbbblqaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament.—29. The July Bug.— 30. The Converted
Carman. — 
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The u Poughkeepsie Seer." s.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Hannonia . ,
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III. „ . .
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . .
The Thinker. „ V. , . ,
Magic StaffAn Autobiography of A.J.Davis .
d.
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 f
5 (
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis ; or, Truth v. Theology
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People .,,76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . ,36
History and Philosophy of Evil , . . .36
Harbinger of Health . , . ... 7 6
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . . 7 6
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers , 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse '. . ,60
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—-on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . ,26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology , .30
Morning Lectures  7 6
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETYS ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the hest hooks published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
T3 ESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA
JAi OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The hest work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.O.
D
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBEOK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building o
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of. u
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
B
LE JOURNAL DtJ MAGNETISMS,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mons. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
iR. CARTER-BLAKE’S BRITISH
MUSEUM LECTURES will be recommenced
in the middle of October next, when arrangements on
a large scale will he made to render the British Museum
(as suggested by the Principal Librarian) useful for
the purposes of general tuition before schools.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Eoughton, St.
George’s-road.
October, 1879.] [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
The Devil of Mascon—An Ignored Scripture Pro¬
mise : A.M.—Physical Immortality: J. W. R—Popular
Errors and Objections to Spiritualism Explained and
Answered—A Boy’s Memory—Modem Spiritualism:
its Rise and Progress. With a brief Account of its
Facts and Theories: J. S. Farmer.—Notes and Glean¬
ings : The Imperative Necessity of Testing Mediums;
A Comfortable Consideration; The Forthcoming Auto¬
biography of Dr. Newton ; Professor Wagner, Spirit¬
ualism and its Opponents; Spiritualism on Board the
Cuzo\ A Scientific Basis for Faith; Fichte on the
Unreliability of Great Names in Spirit Communica¬
tions; A Curious Incident relating to the Prince
Imperial; “ Believes that he believes; ” Faith and
Reason; How Little the World Misses any Man;
Cured by a Spirit. Poetry—Believe and Trust: S. C.
Hall.
IRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Price 5s. Or, 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
CONTENTS.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Are Maria-Jane.
GLASGOW : HAY NlSBET & Co., 52, Ropcwork-lane
Two Public Memorials i—The Fight for Life-
Directorship   181
“ Spiritualism and the Church of England.” By
Isabel de Steiger     184
The Theosophic Society and Spiritualism, By J,
W. Farquhar      185
New Discoveries in Spiritualism. By William H.
Harrison. Description of the Apparatus used
—The First Stance with the New Apparatus 186
A Self-recorded Diagram     190
Weighing Machine Experiments 191
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, Lon Ion, and pub
lished by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London
E.C
