Eegusterbd as a Newspaper.
Sjlf) f^YdSo^o^id®^ ^dis^Kd^.
Ittepp* rppjtSS toitlj in feat ^ritahr,
NO..S69.—(YoL.Xy.-No.12.) LONDON: FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Just Published.
AY ILLUSTRATED BROADSIDE ENTITLED
THE WONDERS OE LAMPORT, ETC.,
By SIR CHARLES ISHAM, Bart.
Price Three Halfpence, Post Free; or Ten for One Shilling.
2,000 Copies sold in two days.
PROFITS FOR ORPHANAGE.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Bamport Hall, Northampton.
~~~ THE THEO SOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. BBAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Host Office Orders to “ The Proprietors of * The Theosophist,’ ” at the above address.
Now Ready.
The THIRD EDITION of Yol. I. of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
MECHANISM OF MAN.
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Yol. II., completing the work, and treating of “The Mechanism in Action,’
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LI&HTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majestys Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 19, 1879.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, IF.
President—Me. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
6re .invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief. •
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K MTINTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN ICARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
PlIE SPlBlTS5 BOOK (ISSS). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEtHtJMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. TruBneR and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By “ M.A, (Oxon.).”
Cloth 3vO. Bed Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
itke Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth, Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some important Questions in Religious Philosophy.
By W, W. CLARK.
^ Consents The Philosophy Of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : its Place and Function
^Religion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism—‘The Philosophy of Inspiration and
Bevelation—Christianity ‘ its Place and Human Elements.
London: TruBner And Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.-
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
DR. NICHOLS’ FOOD OF HEALTH.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT. STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5.: On Thursday and
Saturday -evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
N.B.—Mr. Williams’s temporary address during
alterations in the above premises is 13, Milman-street,
W.C. (comer of new Ormond-street).
MR/J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At home every day except Sunday),
Will lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gqut, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
164, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Pancras
Ohnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. Any
form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions,
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o'clock. 173
Rue St. Honor^, Paris,
MRS. W7OODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladles and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &c.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and tbeir attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &c.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Notice of removal to si,
NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER has arranged for seances on Tuesday and
Friday afternoons, at four o’clock precisely. At home
for private sittings and mesmeric treatment; de¬
velopment for clairvoyance and other forms of
mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily; and eight
to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
v_^ DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Magnetised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIRVOYANTE and HEALING MEDIUM
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair ; sex and
age required. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism,
Specialities. At home from 12 till 5 p.m. Patients
treated at their homes when desired. 99, Park-street,
Grosvenor-square, London, W.
Folkestone.—Comfortable Lodg¬
ings on moderate terms. References to Spirit¬
ualists can be given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-
terrace, Folkestone.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. ' Crown 8 to.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
T/te Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
to th$ Sotocx) litoDS flf SpiiiiittaUsm.
No. 369,—VotujvtE fifteen; Number twelve,
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19th, 1879,
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Establisjied itl 1809.
Published Weekly. Peice Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free witilin the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HAKEISON.
33, British Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Contributions to The Spiritualist
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia. Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Yon Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain. I
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. O. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S.C. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Eev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.B.t.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.B.S.
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Bichardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. 0. Luxmore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Set., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. G.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A,, LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.B.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Eue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Eoyal, Paris; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Bue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 81, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth-street, New York ;
Itanner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.; Religio-PhilosophiccU
Journal Office, Chicago; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
miTFl SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary hook the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta¬
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
naccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE OORRELATION OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA,
When old records anent apparitions are read by
the light of the experience gained by observation of
the phenomena of modern Spiritualism, the cortela-
tion of ancient and modern manifestations is clear,
For instance, in the article by Captain Burton, in
this number of The SjnrUmdist, phenomena are
described which occurred in 1684, at Castle Weixel-
stein. Firstly, rappings and strange noises were
heard in the house for a long time, as in
the houses of the Wesley and Fox families.
Next the witnesses were touched in the dark by
spirit hands, which agrees with the fact that in
the development of a modern medium, rappings and
noises are usually produced some weeks or months
before the power is strong enough to permit the
materialisation of a spirit hand. Next, as usual in
the modern process of development, the direct spirit
voice was obtained, and the observers found out that
the phenomena were strongest in the presence of a
particular person, or “ medium/’ Ankha. The spirit
asked to be prayed for, and this is the request of a
great number of spirits all the world over, who com¬
municate through mediums. Then authorities were
called in, as usual in the early days of Spiritualism,
to witness the facts, and the spirit, according to cus¬
tom, treated them with little respect. Afterwards the
observers began to test Ankha, by placing heT
between two ecclesiastics while the phenomena were
evolved, and one of these had his hair pulled by spirit
hands. Finally, a spirit hand made a burnt impres¬
sion of itself on the drapery worn by the medium.
In Mrs. De Morgan’s book, From Matter to Spirit,
there is a similar account of a burning effect pro¬
duced by a spirit hand; and when the spirit of Lord
Tyrone appeared to Lady Beresford, the spirit hand,
if it did not burn her, left a permanent mark round
her wrist/and shrivelled up the flesh. In fact, records
of spiritual phenomena in all ages and all times
harmonise with each other whenever the records are
of an accurate nature.
PRINCIPLE VERSUS EMOTION.
? Some of the managers of the National Association
of Spiritualists think they should not be publicly
criticised, while they pose before the public as the
representatives of the whole movement, and while
they are afraid to come within the range of the votes
of their own few members. Some of the vast number
of Spiritualists outside the Association think the said
managers had better be let alone for the sake of
peace. But we think the movement cannot afford
to exempt them from criticism, because directly
anything exciting in Spiritualism attracts the
attention of the general public, resolutions from what
is called “ The Council of the National Association
of Spiritualists ” will carry great weight, and find
their way into the daily newspapers, to the aggra¬
vation of Spiritualists everywhere. So at the cost of
a little temporary inharmony inside the movement,
it is good to publicly and thoroughly establish the
fact that not a few of the Councillors fight in favour
of life directorship, and against the members at large
being allowed to elect them by vote.
We have received the following letter:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sm,—As chairman of the Finance Committee, and auditor of
the British National Association of Spiritualists, I beg you will
give an unqualified denial to a statement made in your last issue,
that the Association recently paid a newspaper to print an attack
upon a lady. Such a statement is utterly without foundation,
and I feel somewhat humiliated in having to contradict it.
In the same issue you state that reporters were ordered out of
the room after the last Council. This is simply a fiction—the
fact being that several of our members remained in private
to organise a scheme in order to defeat such continual mis¬
representations as for a long time past have appeared in your
paper.
With respect to the request which met with such a paucity of
signatures, after canvassing our members on the question of
directorship, we all are quite ready to resign our seats if at a
properly convened meeting, or I may say in any other way,
that is shown to be the wish of our members; but as I and many
others value truth above comfort in office, we see every reason
why we should just now stand by the good old ship.
Our characters have been before the world for many years, and
I am prond to think, from many expressions I have personally
received, that as yet we fully retain the confidence of our con¬
stituency.—Yours faithfully, Morell Theobald.
September 15tb, 1879.
In The Spiritualist of May 9th, 1879, page 227,
is the official letter of the Secretary to the Associa¬
tion, stating the three conditions on which £9 a
quarter (£36 a year) is paid to the journal in ques¬
tion. The following is the second condition (rejected
by The Spiritualist) :—
“ To insert in the same number of ‘ The Spiritualist5 an
authorised report of the proceedings of the Council signed by the
President, such report not to exceed a column in length”
We rejected the above offer unless the word
“ advertisement ” were printed at the top of the
report, and we published about the clause, on May
9th —
ft They scarcely leant a corrupt journal in Spiritualism
itihich icould insert a report on payment as if it had been put
in by the free will of the editor.”
On May 13th, 1879, after receipt of our refusal,
Mr. Morell Theobald read the report of the General
Purposes Committee to the Council. That report
set forth in relation to advertising:—
<f An offer which had been made to Mr. Harrison and
rejected, had been made subsequently to ‘ Spiritual Notes’ and
accepted; and they recommended the Council to confirm this
arrangement.”—Spiritual Notes, June, 1879. Page 156.
On the motion of Mr. Morell Theobald the Council
then confirmed the arrangement.
Thus, on the motion of Mr. Theobald, the Associa¬
tion is under contract to pay quarterly for the printing
of the Council reports, including the one containing
the attack on Mrs. Lowe. Yet in the above letter
Mr. Theobald, in reply to our statement that the
report was a paid one, says :—
t( Such a statement is utterly without foundation^ and I feel
somewhat humiliated in having to contradict it.”
If he means that as yet the £9 has not been
actually handed over, it does not affect the moral
point at issue ; the money has to be paid and the
cheque signed by Mr. Theobald, if it is not yet paid,
and the amount covers payment for printing the
attack on Mrs. Lowe. Mr. Theobald knew this while
writing the above letter, since he moved the con¬
firming of the financial arrangement at the Council.
Or does he mean that he is so indignant at the
attack having been printed, that he intends to move
that the money for printing it shall not be paid
according to the contract adopted by his motion ?
With reference to the second paragraph of Mr.
Theobald’s letter, fourteen motions copied from the
Minute Book of the Council are printed in The
Spiritualist of May 9th, and the action of the
| Council in relation to all those motions so trampled
under foot the public rights and interests that this
journal could not support the present management
any longer. We believe that with its altered consti¬
tution and system of management the National
Association may grow into an instrument of great
tyranny. Anybody can read those official motions
and judge for himself. Since then there has been
a revengeful feeling among certain Spiritualists, and
some of them (including a working majority of very
orthodox persons) are trying to get the public to aid
them in venting their malice against The Spiritualist.
With reference to the third paragraph in the letter,
nobody was called upon, and but few copies of the
memorial were posted for signature, the names
and addresses of the members being then locked up
in the closed rooms of the National Association.
There is no necessity to drag into the subject such
irritating personal matters as the question whether
Mr. Theobald or anybody else will or will not resign
his seat. The Council has to decide the great public
question whether it it will uphold life-directorship or
representation by election, and whether it will or will
not allow the members to decide this question by
vote. From Mr. Theobald's letter we infer that
they are going to uphold life-directorship, and to
refuse to let the members vote on the question. This
was to be expected, because the working members of
Council consist chiefly of persons who have never
rendered any public services to the cause of Spirit¬
ualism, and who obtained their places because of the
enormous size of the Council, so that each of these
comparatively untried individuals found his way in
without contest, at the mere nomination of some
personal friend. Their measures have driven out, or
as Mr. C. C. Massey, of the Temple (who gave close
personal attention to' all their doings), says, <f dis¬
gusted” out of the Association a large number of
persons. Many of those who have been driven out
are noted for their public services to Spiritualism,
and only two or three of our best public men have
advocated the principles of the working members of
the Council.
As to the last paragraph of Mr. Theobald’s letter,
if the members have the alleged confidence in the
present life-directors, why not allow them to show it
by their votes, and so come off in triumph ? Why
restrain ardent friends by keeping voting papers out
jn of their reach? It is a poor return for sincere
jij friendship.
$3 Obviously, when most of our best public men have
134
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 19, 1879.
Sept. 19. 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 135
been driven out of the Association by repugnance to
the measures of the Council, when in nine short
months the income of the Association has been greatly
reduced, nothing can possibly be fairer than to throw
all its affairs into the hands of the members by a
general election and the abolition of life-directorship.
And we cannot see why any ill-feeling or personal
attacks need accompany that course of action.
A great feeling of relief would be felt everywhere
by Spiritualists both inside and outside the organi¬
sation if it were announced that the settlement of
the affairs of the Association had been placed in the
hands of the members at large by means of a general
election, and the reduction of the Council to a
reasonable size. Then those who have rendered no
public services to Spiritualism would be unlikely to
get seats on it. Meanwhile, the present managers
have caused a great split in it, deteriorated its con¬
stitution, and cut down its income; probably they
will now advocate the principle of life-directorship,
and an election is the last thing they will give in to,
in which course of action the public interests will be
sacrificed.
Mr. Theobald publishes that it is a “ fiction ” that
reporters were turned out of the room. Our reporter
came back twice from Council meetings saying he
had been turned out. He says it was done in this
way:—When the business of the Council was
announced to be over, one of the members said
words to the effect that directly the room was cleared
he had something to say in private. Our reporter
consequently felt he must leave, and he came out,
leaving the members of the Council sitting in their
places round the table.
THE MARCOU.
When a woman bears to her husband seven male
children consecutively, the seventh is a Marcou.
But the series must not be broken by the birth of
any female child. The Marcou has a natural fleur-
de-lys imprinted on some part of his body ; for
which reason he has the power of curing scrofula,
exactly the same as the kings of France. Marcous
are found in all parts of France, but particularly in
the Orldanais. Every village of Gatinais has its
Marcou. It is sufficient for the cure of the sick that
the Marcou should breathe upon their wounds, or let
them touch his fleur-de-lys. The night of Good
Friday is particularly favourable to these ceremonies.
Ten years ago there lived at Ormes, in Gatinais, one
of these creatures, who was nicknamed the Beau
Marcou, and consulted by all the country of Beauce.
He was a cooper, named Foulon, who kept a horse
and vehicle. To put a stop to his miracles, it was
found necessary to call in the aid of the gensdarmes.
His fleur de-lys was on the left breast; other Mar¬
cous have it in different parts.—Victor Hugo.
A New Legal “ Position.”—The Times of Tuesday, in its
telegraphic news, says:—“ M. Kidiger, a Spiritualist, summoned
before a St. Petersburg magistrate a few days ago M. Paustini,
an Italian conjuror, on the charge of falsely representing himself
as a medium. The magistrate, without entering into the merits
of the case, dismissed it, on the grounds that the law recognises
no difference between Spiritualism and conjuring,”
MISS COOK’S SEANCES AT PARKFIELD,
DIDSBURY.
BY A SCEPTIC.
! / j
My friend, Mr. Blackburn, of Parkfield, Bidsbury,
m near Manchester, who has long been well known
nj among Spiritualists as one of the best friends to the
| (j cause, has on several occasions asked me to be present
I > | as the seances held at his house while Miss Cook has
lei been staying there, and it may, perhaps, interest
jjj some of your readers if they hear from one who is by
m no means a convert to Spiritualism a plain, un-
! j varnished statement of what occurred on some
( occasions. I will not attempt to account for any of
jjj the phenomena I shall describe, but simply give the
j(j facts, and leave your readers to draw their own con-
jjl elusions, as I have done. I think I ought to say that
j<j in every seance in which I have taken part, Mr.
jjj Blackburn, who has been present, has used every
m precaution to prevent the possibility of deception,
jjj Of his own bonafides there can be no doubt ; that of
j(j his daughter, Miss Blackburn, who also takes part in
jjl the seances, is equally without question ; the other
|<j sitters have been different at every seance I have
jjj attended, and were invariably casual visitors who
K popped in unexpectedly, as they are in the habit of
jjj doing, Mr. Blackburn’s house being one where friends
j(j always feel at home, he and his daughter’s great
jji anxiety being how to make their guests happy. As
j (j for Miss Cook, those who know her best believe in
I jj her most; and associating with her time after time as
j j I have done, it is difficult to conceive that she can
jjj be anything but true and honest in deed and purpose,
ju If so, the circumstances I am about to describe can
jjj only be the result of some unseen and hitherto un-
j(j recognised agency. Many of your readers, no doubt,
jj know Miss Cook personally, but for the information
ju of those who do not, I may say that she is very petite,
jjj particularly slightly made, and, as far as one can
yj judge, with very limited physical power. It is
jjj important to remember this in judging of what takes
j j j place at her seances.
j j j Being quite a novice in spiritualistic affairs, I may
j (I in what follows make some remarks which may appear
jjj crude to the wise men of Spiritualism, but I think I
1(1 shall be able to put plain facts so that “matter-of-
jjj fact” people can understand them, and that is all I
j j now wish to do. I found there were two kinds of
jjj seances, namely dark seances, into the mysteries of
j (j which I was first initiated; the others, materialisation
jjj stances, in which I was permitted to take part when
j\j I had attended two or three of the former kind.
Let me mention first my experiences of a dark
jjj stance which was held, as indeed all these seances
Jjl were, in Mr. Blackburn’s library, an ordinary room,
i|j with a desk (which Mr. Blackburn uses for business
jjj purposes), a bookcase, a few chairs and a table. It
jjj is of plain mahogany, with flaps ; and it has a leg at
jjj each end, and a cross bar below connecting the two
jjj On this table Mr. Blackburn usually places a tam-
j j j bourine, one or two bells, some iron rings a few inches
jjj in diameter, a musical instrument called “fairy bell,”
I some tape, and sometimes a musical box. So much
jjj for the preliminaries. Now as to the sitters and their
j j position at the table. I have already mentioned that
j j these varied at each seance. Sometimes we have had
ui as few as five present; seldom more than eight. Qn
136
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 19, 1879.
every occasion, perhaps "because Mr. Blackburn knew
I was a sceptic, and a hard-headed business man, not
at all likely to be led away by enthusiasm, I was asked
to hold one hand of the medium, Miss Cook, and I
fully appreciated Mr. Blackburn’s kindness in allow¬
ing me this privilege. Most frequently, but not
always, the other hand of the medium was held by
Miss Blackburn. Mr. Blackburn himself usually sat
opposite the medium. The sitters being thus placed
at the table, the gas was turned off. The door had
been previously fastened by means of a Chubb latch,
so that no one could enter the room. The sitters
joined hands, and were requested by Mr. Blackburn
on no account to loose them.
Usually within a minute or two after we were
seated the manifestations which I shall describe com¬
menced. The first disturbance was generally the
lifting up of the table slightly at one end, followed by
a remark from Mr. Blackburn that Lillie (the spirit)
was present, a remark at once responded to by the
table rising and falling three times, meaning, so I
was informed, in spirit language, “Yes.” The table
was then more violently agitated, at times being
lifted some distance from the floor, and on one occa¬
sion being placed on my knee. From time to time a
soft hand touched several of the sitters and sometimes
me ; once I felt a hand on my breast, and afterwards
found that a flower had been taken from the coat of
another sitter and placed in mine. All this time I
had hold of the medium’s left hand and Miss Black¬
burn of the right. Then there was a cry that the
medium’s chair was being drawn away, and I made
an effort to recover it, but though I used all my
strength there was a more powerful force at work,
which drew it from me, and in a moment it was on
the table. The bells were ringing some distance
above us, the tambourine was being brought down with
rather unpleasant weight upon our heads, the fire-
irons (which were at least a yard from the table) were
placed upon it, and the whole room was in such con¬
fusion that a general desire was expressed for a light.'
When this was brought everything was “higgledy-
piggledy.” A chair or two, the tongs, poker, and
sundry other odds and ends on the table, the musical
instruments scattered about, and every indication
that half-a-dozen mischievous imps had been busy at
work among us. Little Miss Cook seemed cool and
unruffled, and certainly not as if her tiny hands and
feet had been the agents of all the disorder. The
only thing I need add as to the dark seance is that
on one occasion, while I had hold of Miss Cook’s hand,
an iron ring, which upon after examination seemed
perfectly solid, was slipped over my hand and on to
my wrist. I have simply given facts as they occurred,
and do not attempt to account for them.
Everything, no doubt, might be put down to
sleight-of-hand and natural agency, though if that
be the true solution of the phenomena I have seen,
I confess myself as not sharp enough to detect the
operator ; and let me remind your readers that our
host, Mr. Blackburn, who is always a keen investi¬
gator, and seeks constantly for tests, urged us from
beginning to end of the seance to use every effort to
find out imposture.
Now for the more advanced stage of Spiritualism ;
what is called the materialisation seance. This is
held in the same room as the dark seance, and has
j | i the advantage that there is a dim light, sufficient to
m see the outline of objects around us. Across one
])| corner of the room a green curtain suspended on an
| | iron rod is drawn. Within the curtain is an arm-
•|l chair in which the medium is placed, and round the
jy! outside the company—the same who were present at
|) | the dark seance — are seated, making a kind of
Kj cordon round the curtain, so that no one can pass in
||| or out without the observer’s knowledge.
Before describing what follows, it is necessary for
k| me to premise that the medium is dressed in a
)| tightly-fitting black dress, buttoned close up to the
|(| throat; that she has high boots, buttoned with
i) | several buttons—I did not count how many ; that
k| she has rings on her fingers and earrings. It is im-
m portant to remember this, and also important to note
m that there is nothing in which to conceal any drapery
HI or dresses other than what the medium may have on
m her person. Further, that every opportunity is
m given for examination and investigation before the
m seance commences. Mr. Blackburn, in fact, insists
H upon his visitors looking into everything, his ex-
| j pressed desire being to test the bona fides of Miss
m Cook, the medium. The cabinet, which is the term
j (I given to the space behind the curtain, is carpeted like the
j )j rest of the room, and that there is no trap door or secret
||| inlet or outlet we have the assurance not only of our
jM own eyesight, but of Mr. Blackburn’s undoubted
ill respectability. Now the seance has commenced. I
1)1 may here mention that the phenomena at each that
| | I attended varied more or less ; but I will give them
m all as I saw them, not keeping separate those which
o occurred at each, for indeed I cannot remember
)| sufficiently clearly to keep them distinct. I recollect,
j(i however, that at the first at which I was present the
ill medium had not been more than a minute or two in
III her chair when a heavy carpet buffet was thrown
j) j over the iron rod, which was at least seven feet high,
j<| into the room; certainly a wonderful feat of strength
j)j if our friend Miss Cook was the operator. A ques-
|\| tion at once was asked if that was Lillie (the spirit),
j/! and a low, gentle voice answered in a lisp, “Yeth, it
|(| ith me.” I may mention, en passant, that the sup-
|)| posed spirit always speaks in the same voice, with
j(| the lisp; that the voice is not the same as Miss
j;j Cook’s; and that the latter does not lisp. A good
j(j deal of conversation with Lillie was kept up during
|)| the sittings, but I cannot, of course, repeat all that
!j| passed. Clearly Lillie is very quick at repartee, and
|)| can hold her own with the sharpest of ordinary or
K extraordinary mortals. Mr. Blackburn or Miss
/1 Blackburn, who, knowing the spirit’s ways, are usually
sj the first to ask questions, generally inquire if Lillie
)j will be good enough to show herself, and in a few
s minutes a figure clothed in fine white drapery appears
)j in the dim light and allows those present to touch
Kj her hands or her arms, which are quite bare; some-
|)| times her feet, which are also bare; and sometimes,
m though less frequently and that to a favoured few,
) her neck and bosom, which are covered with the
| white drapery, but are certainly not enclosed in
l)| the tight black dress of the medium. At some
Kj of the later stances I was allowed to ascertain
m this for myself. But in spite of the apparent
Kj difficulties of such a conclusion, we sceptics not
III unnaturally say to ourselves—“After all, this must
be Miss Cook, Our common sense tells us there
Sept. 19, 1879.
THE SPIKITLTALIST.
137
can’t be two identities where a few minutes before j; j
there was only one, and we know there is not a |i|
second human being in the room to personate the [(
spirit, or ghost, or Lillie, whichever you choose |;|
to call it.” Mr. Blackburn, strong Spiritualist as he j <
is, understands our Thomas a Didymus feeling and j)
suggests a test. I am told first of all to feel if h
Lillie has earrings in; I feel, and answer “No,” b
and am then requested to follow the spirit into k
the cabinet when she retires, and instantly to feel |>
if the medium is in her chair, has her black dress
on tightly buttoned, and has boots on her feet and I)
earrings in her ears. Nothing loath, I do as I am j(
told. Not an instant elapses between my losing I)
hold and sight of Lillie, and I find, apparently K
in a deep sleep in the chair, Miss Cook, dressed j)
exactly as she was when she went into the cabinet. K
Very wonderful, truly, but sceptics are not easily 1)
convinced, so Mr. Blackburn suggests another test. j(
The spirit appears again, and I am told to take j)
hold of her hand, which is certainly some six feet j(
away from where the medium is supposed to be !)
seated. Mr. Blackburn then places his hand on the j(
medium’s head in her chair, and we have the phe- j)
nomenon that I have hold of the hand of some- |\
one, and that he has hold of the head of either the |)
same being or someone else at a distance certainly K
longer than under any likely circumstances a little \\
creature like Miss Cook could reach. Now these n
are the facts as I saw them; let your readers form I)
their own conclusions. Just one more manifestation K
of another description—slate-writing—a new instance |)
of Miss Cook’s mediumistic power; if it is the result ||
of spiritualistic power at all. I give the facts j)
without comment. A slate is placed upon the table j\
face downwards, a small piece of pencil—a crumb, ||
in fact—is placed beneath; the gas in the room is j
turned down, but there is sufficient light to show >;<
the slate and to enable me to see distinctly Miss ||
Cook’s hands, which are folded over each other and j<
placed on the top of the slate. I ask a question, j
and instantly I hear the noise of writing. I am |<
asked to turn on the gas; the slate is handed to
me, and I read an answer to my question. I can j<
only say about this, that the slate never left my jj
sight for a moment, nor were Miss Cook’s hands j<
removed from the top. j'
I find I have forgotten a very remarkable mani- h
festation which took place while we were at supper | J
the last evening which I spent at Mr. Blackburn’s, !<
on Sunday, the 31st of August. The gas was turned \\
on full. We were seated round a large dining table, j<
partaking of the hospitable repast provided by our j]
host. Miss Cook was, I think, just raising a glass of |<
sherry to her lips, when the table was suddenly lifted j|
up and all the decanters and glasses shaken. Mr. |<
Blackburn at once remarked, “Why, I declare Lillie is |j
here.” There was an instant reply by the table lifting <
three times,, and several questions were answered, ij
either “Yes” or “No,” in the same way. Mr. j<
Blackburn then stood up, and at once the table gave ||
a lurch towards Miss Cook, and the manifestations <
ceased. Sceptic ever, I could not help thinking, ||
unlikely as it appeared, that some one present had j<
lifted the table with their knees, but I could hardly jj
for shame suggest such a thing. I quietly tried the u
experiment myself however, and I am bound to
admit that after exerting all my strength it was with
the greatest difficulty I could raise the table an inch,
and there is no doubt that the power, whatever it was,
which had manipulated it before, was greater than
mine, as the movement was instantaneous after any
question was asked.
I fear I shall have wearied your readers, if indeed
any of them have taken the trouble to wade through
my long epistle, but I thought that my experience
might perhaps interest some. W. H. C.
THE ORIGIN OF LIFE.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOR OF “LETTERS TO
MISS MARTINEAU.”
Professor Allman’s account of the close inter¬
relation or general law in respect to animals and
plants is extremely interesting, and on the same ques¬
tion there is a highly instructive article in this
month’s (September) Contemporary Review by that
excellent naturalist, Professor St. George Mivart,
F.B.S. The question of the fundamental substance
of living forms, protoplasm, arrests a close attention,
and one feels surprised that those making experiments
in respect to the origin of life, or, as it is called,
“ spontaneous generation,” do not attempt to bring
living forms out of this “ live matter.” or matter of
life, rather than exclude all chance of the germs of life
in the substance and liquid acted upon, which pro¬
cess, may be, destroys the very principle of life they
want to develop.
I am sorry that Professor Allman, following
Tyndall, makes a special mystery of mind as a fact
of cerebration, the genesis of which is so very clear
and simple—far more so than the formative reason
for the complex correlated and inter-related organism
of which mind is a function; on all which points
the writer in the Times is safe in saying that there
is much in nature still that science cannot account
for, since fundamentally science does not account for
anything.
Spencer refers to an unknowable absolute; Bacon
to the positive, the primary, and uncaused ; Tyndall
to a something transcendental, and so on. Never¬
theless the nature of the cause is exhibited in its
doings and conditions, laws and motions, correlations,
sensations, instincts, mind and reason—all which we
cannot account for, since in the very nature of things
it is not to be accounted for, and all the speculations
as to the cause in nature has been and is absolute
folly and nonsense. The conditions and results are
all we know or need care to know, and that like
conditions must ever produce like effects, or they
would not be like, since by “ like ” we mean equal to
the same.
Hence our knowledge is in the what, and the why
is an idle question; our confidence in practice lies
in the necessary and eternal sequence in which we
live and have our being, and must accept the con¬
sequences.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, France.
A good authority on the subject writes:—“ The organisation
of societies is a difficult subject, and I really do not know how an
active^and unscrupulous member can be got rid of, Some men
in a society are like antimony in gold—they wh^t 18 most
ductile fragile as glass.”
138
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 19, 1879.
“ VERITABLE AND SINGULAR ACCOUNT OF AN (
APPARITION, AND THE SAYING OF A SOUL, IN i
CASTLE WEIXELSTEIN, IN KRAIN.”
BY CAPTAIN E. F. BURTON, H.M. CONSUL AT TRIESTE.
||
I send you one of the best ghost-stories, and one |)
which your readers have certainly never seen. We u
were lately paying a visit to the Castle of Weixelstein, ;)
near Steinbriicke, Krain (Carniola), the country \)
house of our hospitable friends Mons. and Madame ||
Gutmansthal Senvenuti. My attention was drawn to
two old and portly folios, entitled Lie JEhre des ]}
Herzogthum’s Krain (the “ Honour of the Dutchy of
Carniola”). An awful title-page of forty-six lines |)
declares that it was written by Johann Weichard, h
Freiherr (Baron) Yalvasor, or Walvasor, Lord of K
Wazenberg, and printed at Laibach in m.dc.lxxxix. k
The author, a Fellow R. Soc., London, who was j)j
Governor of the Dutchy and Captain of the Frontier, |)j
then an important post, is portrayed with long hair, Kj
d Zo- Milton, shaven face, and laced cravat (Croatian) Kj
falling over his breastplate. The book is full of j/j
curious episodes, and above I give you the “ time” j)j
it recommends for catching crabs. Amongst other m
things it gives a valuable disquisition on the bile (lib. jyj
xi.), which it dates from the days of Saint Jerome |(j
(a.d. 400). Volume I., which is historical, contains j/|
836 pages (lib. i.—viii.) : Volume II. 1007 (lib. ix.— j|j
xv.), besides the Register (appendix, index, etc.). It m
is profusely illustrated by the author’s hand with maps i \ j
and plans, genealogies and coats of arms, scenery and K j
castles, costumes and portraits; and, lastly, with repre- |) j
sentations of battles, sieges, hangings, roastings, and n j
hurlings headlong from rocks. The tail-piece is a duello j \ j
between a Christian man-at-arms and a “turban’d ju
Turk.” The plates are on metal, and remarkably Kj
good. A new edition of this noble old historico-topo- j) j
graphical monograph is now being issued from Laibach I ^ j
(Labacus). “ Garniolia antiqua et nova," is happy m
in her Memoirs. Valvasor has a rival in Johann Kj
Ludovicus Schdwleben, whose folio appeared Labaci k]
m.dc.lxxxi., (Emonie sen Labaci Conditce, mm.dccc.iv. j)j
Of the latter, however, only the Tomus Primus, jvj
ending about a.d. 1000, appeared : the /Stecuwcfots was Kj
not printed, and the fate of the manuscript is unknown. j< j
Valvasor gives a view of Castle Weixelstein, j)j
“ Cherry-tree Rock,” which the Slavs call Novi Lvov m
(New Court). There is some change in the building jyj
since 1689. The square towers at the angles appear Kl
lower, from the body of the house having been raised. : •
The Hof, or hollow court to the south, has been sur¬
rounded by a second story; and the fine linden-tree
in the centre is a stump, bearing a large flower-pot.
The scene of the apparition is a low room with barred
windows and single-arched ceiling, which is entered
by the kitchen, the first door to the right of the main
gate. The old families mentioned in the story have
mostly disappeared. Enough of preliminary.
The following is a literal translation of Valvdsor’s
old German :—
“veritable and singular account of an apparition, and
THE SAVING OF A SOUL, IN CASTLE WEIXELSTEIN, IN KRAIN.
‘ ‘ At the castle above-named strange noises (rumor)
were heard during the night for several years ; but
the origin of the same was a subject of (vain) research
and speculation. After a time a new servant wench
(mensch) engaged in the house, whose name was
Ankha (i.e., Anna) Wnikhlaukha, had the courage,
on hearing these mysterious sounds, to address the
ghost in the following manner :
£‘ The loth of January, a.d. 1684.—Firstly, at
night a noise arose in the servant-wenches’ room,
as though someone were walking about clad in
iron armour and clanking chains. The women being
sorely frightened, some stable-hands were brought to
sleep with them. They were struck upon the head,
and one was like to die of terror.
“The 16th of January.—In the evening, as the
lights still burnt, a rapping was heard at the room
door ; but when they went to see what caused it,
nothing was found. Presently those inside put
out the lamps, and lay down to rest. Thereupon
began a loud clatter ; the two servant wenches,
Marinkha (Marian) Samanoukha and Miza (Mitza,
Mary) Sayeschankha were seized by the head, but they
could distinguish no one near them.”
The whole account is strictly “spiritualistic.”
Ankha is the chosen medium, and nothing is done till
she appears on the scene. The ghost will hardly
answer the officious and garrulous steward; and has
apparently scant respect for the reverend men who
are called in. One of the latter somewhat justified
the ghost’s disdain by telling a decided “fib.” The
steps by which the apparition changes from hot to
cold, from weariness to energy, from dark to white
robes, and from loud noises to mild, are decidedly
artistic.
“ On the VIth of January nothing happened.
“ On the 18th, the servant wenches, being in great
fear, five others joined them. One Hansche Juritschkho
Suppan put out' the light when all lay down, locked
the door, and endeavoured to sleep. Thereupon arose
a dreadful noise. After it had ended, Ankha, by the
advice of those present, thus bespake the ghost:
“ e All ye good spirits, praise the Lord.’
‘{This is the recognised formula throughout Ger¬
many for addressing apparitions.
“The ghost answered, *1 also; so help me God,
and our Blessed Lady, and the holy Saint Anthony of
Padua ! ’
“Anna resumed, ‘What wantest thou, O good
spirit ? ’
Sept. 19, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
139
“The ghost replied, ‘I want thirty masses' It
added, ‘ This castle was once mine, ’ and it disappeared.
“ Oqi the 19th of Januai y the ghost was present,
but nothing unusual occurred.
“ On the evening of the 29th,
“The servant wenches being still affrighted, the
steward (Sclweiber), one Antoni Glanitschingg, and
the man Hansche, before mentioned, with six other
persons, were in the chamber. When all lay down to
rest, the steward locked the door and put out the
lamp. The ghost at once came and violently dragged
a chair backwards. Whereupon quoth Antoni: ‘I
confess that I am a great sinner ;* nevertheless, I
dare address thee, and ask thee, in God’s name, what
more dost thou want ? ’
“To this question no answer was vouchsafed by the
ghost, although the steward repeated it a second and
a third time. He then rose up and advanced towards
the apparition, which was seen standing near the
window, thinking to discover whether it was a true
ghost, or some person playing a trick. It vanished,
however, before he could lay hand upon it. The
steward went out with one of the servant wenches to
fetch a light; and, whilst so doing, he heard the ghost
speaking in the room he had left. When the lamp
came nothing was found. Then all those present
knelt down and prayed. After their devotions the
light was extinguished, and the ghost reappeared,
crying out, with weeping and wailing, ‘ Ankha!
Ankha ! Ankha ! help me.’ The wench asked, * How
can I help thee, 0 good spirit ? ’ Whereupon the
ghost rejoined, ‘ With thirty masses, which must be
said at the altar of St. Anthony in the Church of
Jagnenz ’—which church is in the parish of Schaffen-
berg.”
Jagnenz is a church in the valley of the Sopotka, a
small stream which falls into the Save river, about
half a mile west of Weixelstein. Schiiffenberg is the
hereditary castle of the well-known county of that
name. Wrunikh is another little church, remarkably
pretty, near Weixelstein. Apparently the ghost
served to “run ” Jagnenz against all its rivals.
“ Hearing these words from the ghost, the steward
again inquired, ‘ 0, thou good spirit! would it not be
better to get the masses said sooner by dividing them ;
part at Jagnenz, the other at the altar of Saint
Anthony in Wrunikh ? ’ Whereto the ghost made
answer, ‘No! Ankha! Ankha! only at Jagnenz,
and not at Wrunikh ! ’ The steward continued, ‘As
this ghost refuseth to answer me, do thou, Ankha, ask
it what and why it suffers, &c.’ Then Ankha ad¬
dressed it : ‘ My good spirit! tell me wherefore dost
thou suffer ? ’ It replied, * For that I unrighteously
used sixty gulden (florins). So I, a poor widow body,
must endure this penalty.’ Ankha further said,
‘ Who shall pay for these thirty masses ? ’ The ghost
rejoined, ‘The noble master’ (of the castle), and
continued, ‘ Ankha ! Ankha ! I am so weary, and
dead-beat, and martyred, that I can hardly speak.’
“ Then cried the steward, ‘My good spirit! when
the thirty masses shall have been said, come back
and give us a sign that they have helped thee.’
I)!
i |
j
I
||
<1
(i
|
i)|
| I
II
||
(1
jj
11
||
| I
The ghost rejoined, ‘Ankha! to thee I will give a
sign upon thy head.’ Ankha replied, ‘ God have
mercy upon me, that must endure such fright and
pain ! ’ But the ghost thus comforted her : ‘ Fear
not, Ankha. The sign which I will show to thee
shall not be visible upon thy head, nor shall it be
painful.’ It added, ‘Ankha! Ankha! I pray thee,
when thou enterest into any house, tell the inmates
that one unjust kreutzer (farthing) eats up twenty
just kreutzers.’ Then the ghost began to snatch the
wench’s cap, or coif; and she, in her terror, took to
praying for help. The ghost comforted her, bade her
feel no fear nor anxiety, took leave {sic), and was seen
no more that night.
((Late on the 21st of January the ghost reap¬
peared, and made a terrible noise with a chair in
presence of the lord of the castle, Sigmund Wilhelm,
Freihen (Baron) von Zetschekher, * and of two
ecclesiastics, Georg Andre Schlebnikh and Lorenz
Tschitsch. Several others, men and women, were
present, and nothing took place till the candles were
put out. Whereupon the said Schlebnikh began to
exorcise the apparition, beginning with the usual
formula, ‘ All ye good spirits, praise the Lord.’ The
ghost replied, ‘ I also.’ It would not, however, answer
any question put by the ghostly man, but began to
speak with Ankha, saying, 1 Ankha ! help me ! ’ She
rejoined, ‘ My dear good spirit, all that lies in my
power will I do for thee : only tell me, my spirit, if
the two masses already said have in any way lessened
thy pain.’ The ghost answered, ‘Yea, verily’
(freilich). Ankha continued, ‘ How many more masses
must thou still have ? ’ and the reply was ‘ Thirty,
less two.’ Then Ankha resumed, ‘ 0, my good spirit,
tell me thy family name.’ Quoth the ghost, ‘My
name is Gallenbergerinn.t The wench further asked
for a sign of salvation when all the thirty masses
should have been said ; the ghost promised so to do,
and disappeared.
“ On the night of the 22nd of January, when the
lights were put out, the ghost reappeared, passing
through the street and tied door. This was in pre¬
sence of Wollf Engelbrecht, Baron Gallon, of the lord
of the castle, and of four priests, namely, Georg
Schiffrer, curate of Laagkh ; l An dree Navadnikh,
ex-vicar of Ratschach ;§ Georg Andre Schlebnikh, and
Lorenz Tschitsch. There were several others. This
time the ghost did not make a frightful noise, as
before, the reason being that eight masses had been
said. So, at least it appeared from its address,
* Ankha! Ankha! I thank thee : I shall soon be
released.’ The wench rejoined, ‘0, my good spirit !
dost thou feel any comfort after the eight masses ? ’
The apparition replied, ‘ Yea, verily, my Ankha ; ’
and, when asked how many were wanted, answered,
* The name is also spelt “ Zetschkher.” This family, the old
owners of Castle Weixelstein, which passed into the present
hands some thirty years ago, is either extinct or has disappeared
from the neighbourhood hereabouts ; the population also may bo
called “ floating.”—R. F. B.
f The family has disappeared. Valvasor gives a view of the
Castle of Gallenberg. The termination,, inn denotes that the
ghost was one of the members. It is not so used in modem days.
J Now Laack, a village in sight of Weixelstein, on the left
bank of the Save river, belonging to Baron Fellner, a permanent
Chef de Bureau, Vienna.
§ Bah, in Slavine, is a crab ; it chi natrazhhe, to go like a crab.
Ak is the sign of the locatur case : “ in the csabs,” or “ among
the crabs ; ” land crabs, of cpurse.
* We wish English investigators would do the same.—Ed.
140
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 19, 1879.
‘ Twenty-two.’ As it had declared its family name, it | (j
was now prayed to disclose its Christian name, in ]>|
order that the latter might be introduced into the m
masses by the four reverends. It said, ‘ My name is m
Mary Elizabeth Gallenbergerinn.’ Further it was 1(1
asked whether, being a Gallenberg, the thirt3r n|
masses should be paid by the Lord of Gallenberg or ]H
by ‘Zetschkher’ of Weixelstein. It ejaculated |i|
‘ Zetschkher 1 (without giving the title); and added, |} j
‘A thousand thousand, and a thousand thanks to jjj
thee, dear Ankha.’ The latter said, ‘0 my good |<|
spirit, tell me what wrong didst thou do with the sixty |)j
gulden that we may make restoration to the rightful i (j
owner.’ The ghost replied, ‘Ankha, this must I tell m
thee in secret.’ The wench begged that the matter m
might be disclosed in public, so that men might believe jvi
it; but the ghost answered, ‘No, Ankha ! in private.’ f
It then took leave and disappeared, promising to come Kj
back for three more evenings.
“ On the 23rd of January the lord of the castle, with ' m
three priests, prayed at the altar of St. Anthony of M
Jagnenz, and five more masses were said. They all m
lodged that night with Georg Andre, of Altenhoff, m
not far from the church. When the lamps were put n|
out Ankha was placed sitting upon a chest, or box, hi
between the two ecclesiastics, Georg Schifirer, of m
Laagkh, and Andree Navadnikh. Then, after three h
raps, the ghost came in, and pulled the hair of one of jjj
these reverends. He stood up from the chest, where- j)j
upon it struck Ankha so violent a box on the ear K
(ohrfeige) that it sounded like a sharp clapping of j)j
hands, and could be heard over all the dwelling-place j(|
(Laben). Lights were brought, and showed the print !/
of a left hand .burnt in the coif on the right side of I j
the wench’s head; she was not hurt, but the cap j)j
remained heated for some time. Nothing else ||j
occurred that night.
‘ * On the evening of the 24th January, after prayers j | j
by the priests, and the lamps being extinguished, the ul
ghost rapped once and came in. As the wench again jm
sat on the same chest between the priests, the curate jm
of Laagkh felt his hair tugged, and he rose up. m
Ankha at the same time exclaimed, ‘ Oh dear! oh I)
dear ! whose cold hand is that ? ’ The priest, who ! {j
was sitting near, said, ‘ Don’t be afraid, the hand is j)
mine,’ but this was not true. He wished to do away |)|
with her fright, and with the impression caused by m
the touch.
“On the 25th of January, when all the required jn
masses had been said at the altar of Saint Anthony m
of Jagnenz, the Lord of Weixelstein and the priests m
engaged in the ceremony returned to pass the night m
at the castle, and" to receive the thanksgiving of the j(j
Saved Soul. While they were supping the housemaid, m
carrying the children’s food, was crossing the hall to [I
the dining-room, when the ghost seized her arm. She m
started back, and saw behind her the form of a j j
woman robed in white. As the family was retiring to Ki
rest, the lord of the castle ordered two of his j)j
dependants, Christop Wollf and Mathew Wreschekh, il
to pass the night with the servant wenches in the ]/!
haunted room. As the lamps were put out the ghost m
entered and struck a loud rap upon the table, and m
said, ‘ Ankha, now I am saved, and I am going' to m
heaven! The wench rejoined, ‘0, blessed soul, j)j
pray to Heaven for me, for the noble master, the ]|]
noble mistress,, and all the noble family, and for all
those who helped thee to (attain) their eternal
salvation,’ whereto the ghost answered ‘ Amen, amen,
amen.’ It then went towards Ankha, and privily told
the promised secret, strictly forbidding her to
divulge it.
“Finally, it should be noted that before all these
events Ahkha had confessed and communicated.”—
(From translation.)
Trieste, September 8,1879,
DREAMS.
BY THE REV. J. M. DIXON,
I well remember the time when young, middle-
aged, and old people seriously and deliberately told
their dreams of the night and the meanings of them.
Those people had their canons of interpretation for
dreams, and some people were regarded by the
dreamers as recognised interpreters. When it was
shown that physical derangement and mental anxiety
were common causes of dreaming, and that in the
imperfect sleep of the night the imagination and
fancy ran wild, the dream-mongers were not well
pleased. But the fact remained that some dreams
were not the result of bodily or mental unhealthiness.
It is held by some that sleep is the sister of death,
that state of physical passiveness in which the human
soul may sometimes have revelations which it cannot
have when the body is awake with all its instincts
and passions. Mr. R. D. Owen says—“But while
we admit, what facts abundantly prove, that, in a
great majority of instances, dreams are, or may be,
either the breaking forth in sleep of a strong desire,
or the offspring of fancy running riot beyond the
control of the judgment, or else the result of sugges¬
tion, sometimes direct and intentional, more fre¬
quently proceeding apparently by accident from ante¬
cedent thoughts or emotions, there remain to be
dealt with certain exceptional cases, which do not
seem to be properly included in any of the above
categories. To judge understandingly of these, it
behoves us to examine them somewhat in detail.”
Mr. Owen then gives several cases of remarkable
dreams, a few of which I here transcribe:—-
“ I remember while walking one beautiful day in
June, in the Villa Reale (the fashionable park of
Naples, having a magnificent view over the bay),
one recounted to me by a member of the A Lega¬
tion, one of the most intelligent and agreeable
acquaintances I made in that city.
“ On the 16th of October, 1850, being then in the
city of Naples, this gentleman dreamed that he was
by the bedside of his father, who appeared to be in
the agonies of death, and that after a time he saw
him expire. He awoke in a state of great excitement,
bathed in cold perspiration, and the impression on
his mind was so strong that he immediately rose,
although it was still night, dressed himself, and
wrote to his father, inquiring after his health. His
father was then at Trieste, distant from Naples, by
the nearest route, five days’ journey ; and the son
had no cause whatever, except the above dream, to be
uneasy about him, seeing that his age did not exceed
fifty, and that no intelligence of his illness, or even
indisposition, had been received. He waited for a
reply with some anxiety for three weeks, at the end
Sept. 19, 1879.
of which time came an official communication to the 1
chef of the mission, requesting him to inform the nj
son that it behoved him to take some legal measures k|
in regard to the property of his father, who had died at \(\
Trieste, after abrief illness, on the sixteenth of October” I /1
Macnish, author of The Philosophy of Sleep, who f|
did not believe that any knowledge was ever attained \)\
in dreams, tells the following of himself, and thus m
gives evidence against his own theory:—
“I was then in Caithness, when I dreamed that a m
near relation of my own, residing three hundred !<
miles off, had suddenly died, and immediately there- j;j
after awoke in a state of inconceivable terror, similar <
to that produced by a paroxysm of nightmare. The |)|
same day, happening to be writing home, I men- Kj
tioned the circumstance in a half-jesting, half-earnest j)j
way. To tell the truth, I was afraid to be serious, Kj
lest I should be laughed at for putting any faith in j)|
dreanis. However, in the interval between writing j(j
and receiving an answer I remained in a state of j)|
most unpleasant suspense. I felt a presentiment Kj
that something dreadful had happened or would j)j
happen; and though I could not help blaming j\[
myself for a childish weakness in so feeling, I was i>j
unable to get rid of the painful idea that had taken m
such rooted possession of my mind. Three days after j)
sending away the letter, what was my astonishment j S j
when I received one written the day subsequent to j)l
mine, and stating that the relative of whom I had ||
dreamed had been struck with a fatal shock of palsy )j
the day before, that is, on the very day on the morn- j)j
ing of which I had beheld the appearance in my jyj
dream ! I may state that my relative was in perfect j|j
health before the fatal event took place. It came b
upon him like a thunderbolt, at a period when no one jjj
could have the slightest anticipation of danger.
“ In the next example we shall find a new element jjj
introduced. Mrs. S related to me that, residing j<j
in Rome in June, 1856, she dreamed, on the 30th of jij
that month, that her mother, who had been several j(j
years dead, appeared to her, gave her a lock of hair, j:
and said, ‘ Be especially careful of this lock of hair, j < j
my child, for it is your father’s ; and the angels will j;|
call him away from you to-morrow.’ The effect of this jd
dream on Mrs. S ’s spirits was such that, when j)
she awoke, she experienced the greatest alarm, and j(j
caused a telegraphic notice to be instantly despatched j /1
to England, where her father was, to inquire after j; i
his health. No immediate reply was received; but, |}j
when it did come, it was to the effect that her father w
had died that morning at nine o’clock. She after- )|
wards learned that, two days before his death, he had j)j
caused to be cut off a lock of his hair, and handed it j/j
to one of his daughters, who was attending on him, Ijj
telling her it was for her sister in Rome. He had j(i
been ill of a chronic disease; but the last accounts K
she received of his health had been favourable, and j/j
had given reason to hope that he might yet survive Kj
for years. j)j
“The peculiarity in this example is, that there is Kj
a double coincidence: first, as to the exact day of j)j
death ; and secondly, as to the lock of hair. The j\j
chances against that double event are much greater j)j
than against a single occurrence only.” Kj
The following is related by Mr. William Howitt, j<j
as an experience of his in 1852, ■ .> j )l
141
ff Some weeks ago, while at sea, I had a dream of
being at my brother’s at Melbourne, and found his
house on a hill at the further end of the town, next
to the open forest. His garden sloped a little way
down the hill to some brick buildings below; and
there were greenhouses on the right hand by the
wall, as you looked down the hill from the house,
As I looked out from the windows in my dream, I
saw a wood of dusky-foliaged trees, having a some¬
what segregated appearance in their heads; that is,
their heads did not make that dense mass like our
woods. ‘There,’ I said, addressing some one in my
dream, ‘ I see your native forest of Eucalyptus ! ’
This dream I told to my sons, and to two of my
fellow passengers at the time ; and, on landing, as
we walked over the meadows, long before we reached
the town, I saw this very wood. ‘ There,’ I said, ‘ is
the very wood of my dream. We shall see my
brother’s house there ! ’ And so we did. It stands
exactly as I saw it, only looking newer; but there,
over the wall of the garden, is the wood, precisely as
I saw it, and now see it as I sit at the dining-room
window writing. When I look on this scene, I seem
to look into my dream.”
Here we have a remarkable case of seeing in
dream, not a picture of revived memory, but that
which had never been seen by Mr. Howitt in his
wakeful hours, and never been described to him by
any one.
The following is a still more remarkable case of
clairvoyance, or mental vision when the senses were
asleep.
“On the evening of February, 1840, Mr. Nevell
Norway, a Cornish gentleman, was cruelly murdered
by two brothers of the name of Lightfoot, on his way
from Bodmin to Wadebridge, the place of his resi¬
dence. '
“ At that time his brother, Mr. Edmund Norway,
was in the command of a merchant vessel, the
Orient, on her voyage from Manilla to Cadiz; and
the following is his own account of a dream which he
had on the night when his brother was murdered :—
‘ “ Ship Orient, from Manilla to Cadiz,
February 8, 1840.
“ ‘ About 7.30 p.m., the island of St. Helena, NNW.,
distant about seven miles; shortened sail and rounded
to with the ship’s head to the eastward at eight, set
the watch, and went below; wrote a letter to my
brother, Nevell Norway. About twenty minutes or
a quarter before ten o’clock went to bed; fell asleep,
and dreamt I saw two men attack my brother and
murder him. One caught the horse by the bridle,
and snapped a pistol twice, but I heard no report;
he then struck him a blow, and he fell off the horse.
They struck him several blows, and dragged him by
the shoulders across the road and left him. . .
“ ‘Edmund Norway, Chief Officer Ship Orient.y”
Now let us read the confession of one of the mur¬
derers, William Lightfoot, who, with his brother, was
executed at Bodmin, April 13, 1840, for the murder
of Mr. Nevell Norway :—
“ I went to Bodmin last Saturday week, the 8th
instant (February 8, 1840), and in returning I met
my brother James at the head of Dummeer Hill.
It was dim like. We came on the turnpike-road all
the way till we came to the house near the spot
THE SPIRITUALIST.
142
THE SPIRITUALIST. Sept. 19, 1879.
where the murder was committed . . . My brother
knocked Mr. Norway down; he snapped a pistol at
him twice, and it did not go off. He then knocked
him down with the pistol. I was there along with
him. Mr. Norway was struck while on horseback.
It was on the turnpike-road, between Pencarrow
Hill and the directing post toward Wadebridge. I
cannot say at what time of the night it was. We
left the body in the water, on the left side of the road
coming to Wadebridge. We took some money in
a purse, but I did not know how much. My brother
drew the body across the road to the watering.”
What can the theory of chance or coincidence do
in this case ? Simply nothing. “ A more complete
series of correspondences between dream and reality
can hardly be imagined. . . . The various coincidences,
taken together, as proof that chance is not the true
explanation, have all the force of a demonstration in
Euclid.”
And there is no reason to believe that such visions
of the night are caused by miraculous intervention.
Indeed, many of the mysteries of the day which have
been made clear by the visions of the night are of
too ordinary a nature for miraculous interference.
Take, for example, the following, for the truth of
which Dr. Abercrombie vouches:—
f A lady in Edinburgh had sent her watch to be
repaired. A long time elapsed without her being
able to recover it; and, after many excuses, she
began to suspect that something was wrong. She
now dreamed that the watchmaker’s boy, by whom
the watch was sent, had dropped it in the street, and
had injured it in such a manner that it could not be
repaired. She went to the master, and, without any
allusion to her dream, put the question to him
directly, when he confessed that it was so.”
We see no miracle or supernatural interference in
this case, nor in any of the cases cited. We see in
such visions of the night simply an extension of that
order which we find in the physical world. What is
called miracle is simply the higher power—spirit con¬
trolling the lower—matter. And “in certain excep¬
tional conditions of the human system, as occasionally
during dreams, or under other circumstances when
the will is surrendered, some . . . occult intelligence
other than our own may not, for a time and to a
certain extent, possess itself of the power to employ
the cerebral mechanism so as to suggest or inspire
thoughts and feelings which, though in one sense our
own, yet come to us from a foreign source.”
Only occasionally are we favoured with the veri¬
fiable presence of the inhabitants of the spirit land.
But often, when we see them not, they may be near
us, suggesting wisdom to us and guiding us, as really
as the stronger wills on earth form and guide the
weaker ones.
Clairvoyant dreams are only a part of the varied
and remarkable things of spirit life. And before
they are despatched to the region of lawless fancy, or
the limbo of superstition, by the reader, he will do
well to give the subject a careful and thorough con¬
sideration. After such consideration, he will probably
have a clearer look out on the spirit home beyond the
grave than he ever had before.
And to the frequent question, “ What is the use of
Spiritualism ?” he will be able to answer—the
(j certainty of a future life of spiritual progress for
! all mankind. And he will be able to speak with
confidence of the blessed communion which the
)| dwellers in time have with the inhabitants of the
\j spirit land.
(i Hull, September 13th, 1879.
“ PASSED TO THE HIGHER LIFE.”
(! BY C. REIMERS.
It will be learned with regret by all who studied
>j the successive phenomena, from spirit painting to the
n development of still higher phases, that my excep-
j tionally gifted medium, Mrs. F—;—, “passed away”
(| on Wednesday, the 10th inst., and the loss will be
)j more particularly felt by those who shared with me
<j the hope of her recovery from a complicated and
) i severe complaint, but it has been decreed otherwise.
I Her removal from the body was perhaps necessary
H in the order of events, leading towards higher work
(j and progress. We on the narrow earth-plane shape
)! our hopes and designs too much within the sphere of
| a limited horizon. Death has the effect on most
>| minds of dispelling for the time the remembrances of
<! the weaknesses of the departed, by the sudden light, as
j j it were, it throws on the spiritual individuality. The
| shadows fly away from the spirit, and linger only on
jj those left behind, to remind us of our own errors and
j defects. As in. The Spiritualist the main features
ji of the grand physical manifestations of this gifted
(j instrument have been reported by Mr. W. Oxley and
)! myself, I may add that they form only a part, a kind
(j of projection of the higher purposes of the operators
>| at “ the other end of the line,” but they were most
i important and necessary at that period when our
>| movement was in its first contact with the ma-
I terialistic methods of research and argument
j| of the age. The many direct spirit letters, and
j at times sublime trance addresses, interspersing all
| these marvels (but kept in reserve for publication), are
| the real central lights to which attention was intended
j to be drawn by the physical phenomena ; they were
(| heralds announcing a change of philosophy. To those
j who studied the conditions of these marvellous mani-
festations as reported, it must be gratifying and
Jj encouraging to learn that not only those published,
j but the whole range of countless and varied mani-
| festations, stood the test of the severest criticism,
ji and were free from traces of fraud. Still, they were
j in part so extraordinary, so far beyond our acquired
j j capacity of comprehension, that (I speak in the spirit
j of most pure and loving charity of my esteemed
(I departed friend) the attempts of those attacking them
j may be forgiven, although they often embittered her
jj life and her sentiments towards our cause. She had
I a rough path of troubles. When a delicate child her
| sweetly religious tone of mind endeared all relatives
j towards the singular girl, the medial blossoms not
j being understood then, nor the dangers appertaining
I to the sensitiveness of such human organisms,
j Jarring discords, cruel cuts, crossing influences,
j upset in her tender age the harmonious tunes of her
(j true Christian faith ; and as I have had a glimpse of
J| l the events of her past life, I can put my admiration
j for her extraordinary gifts aside, and offer my tribute
M of testimony on the grave of an ever-helping, ever-
Sept. 19, 1879.
THE SPiHlTtJALIST.
forgiving, noble soul, carried intact (“ spiritually ”
judged) through the most appalling vicissitudes of
life. The vastness and variety of “signs” given
through this unique medium will he recognised when
the remainder of the yet unknown results are pub¬
lished.
About four months ago I received a communication,
which seems to prove a real “blessing” in my path
of experience, which of late has been of a trying nature
indeed. The spirit “ Bertie ” controlled, and stated
that a Dr. John Donne would “join us in our work.”
The date of his birth and other details again proved
correct, and now the study of the writings of this
remarkably learned man (later Dean of St. Paul’s
Cathedral, where his monument is to be seen) are my
chief delight; they give me strength for further
battle, and so they will to others who read the books
and sermons of that pioneer of truth.
Reserving a biographical sketch of our lamented
friend, and helper of a grand cause, for a later
opportunity, I add, in conclusion, that Mrs. F 
passed over painlessly, her Christian faith guiding
her calmly, as we gathered when cessation of attacks
of the disease (chiefly affecting the heart) permitted
a conversation. Her own view of Spiritualism may
be gathered from her statement to me, alluding to
her probable departure—“What a fuss about death !
It is only passing through another door.” Well,
then, let us send a farewell to the traveller, and
remember her by faithfully continuing a grand
humanitarian work; for, besides the question about
a “beyond,” Spiritualism points to social improve¬
ment of mankind by studying the mission and dangers
of mediumship.
London, September 16th.
SOKCEREBS IN GUERNSEY.
Victor Hugo thus describes the doings of the
wise people of Guernsey in the last and present
decade :—“ Nothing is commoner than sorcerers in
Guernsey. They exercise their profession in certain
parishes, in profound indifference to the enlighten¬
ment of the nineteenth century. Some of their
practices are downright criminal. They set gold
boiling, they gather herbs at midnight, they cast
sinister looks upon the people’s cattle. When
the people consult them, they send for bottles
containing * water of the sick,’ and they are
heard to mutter mysteriously, ‘ the water has
a sad look.’ In March, 1857, one of them dis¬
covered, in water of this kind, seven demons.
They are universally feared. Another only lately
bewitched a baker, * as well as his oven!, Another
had the diabolical wickedness to wafer and seal up
envelopes ‘ containing nothing inside F Another went
so far as to have on a shelf three bottles labelled
‘ B.’ These monstrous facts are well authenticated.
Some of these sorcerers are obliging, and for two
or three guineas will take on themselves the com¬
plaint from which you are suffering. Then they
are seen to roll upon their beds, and to groan with
pain; and while they are in these agonies the be¬
liever exclaims, ‘ There! I am well again/ Others
cure all kinds of diseases by merely tying a hand¬
kerchief round their patients’ loins—a remedy so
l|| simple that it is astonishing that no one had yet
||! thought of it. In the last century, the Conr Royale
j)l of Guernsey bound such folks upon a heap of
faggots, and burnt them alive. In these days it
j)j condemns them to eight weeks’ imprisonment, four
. <1 weeks on bread and water, and the remainder of the
|)! term in solitary confinement.” The last consignment
j(| of a sorcerer to the flames in Guernsey was in 1747.
j)| Between 1565 and 1700, eleven sorcerers were burnt
k! alive in the Carrefour du Bordage, the square devoted
i>j by the city authorities to the extirpation of sorcery
jjj and heresy.
|)| ME. WILLIAM TEBB IN CANADA.
K| Sir,—Since my arrival on this Continent I have received The
|\| Spiritualist with almost the same regularity as at home, and
!>: after perusal have left it on the tables of the reading rooms at
I) i the various hotels in Canada and the United States. I gave a
Is I copy of your interesting volume, Spirits before our Eyes, to
: \ i Judge Martin, of Washington, D.C., who promised, after reading
|)| it, to hand it to Mrs. Hayes, the wife of the President. I have
j)j had interviews with Professor Buchanan, of New York; Judge
|)| Bullard and Mr. and Mrs. Horne, of Saratoga; Col. Littler, of
is! Iowa; Hr. E. Y. Wright, of Washington; Mr. and Mrs. John
[|j M. Spear, now of Malden, Mass.; Mr. Ransome, of Caldweh,
|)| Lake George, and other prominent Spiritualists, who do not
!( j speak encouragingly as to the state of the movement at present.
Is I To avow a belief in Spiritualism is to take up the cross, and
Kj requires some courage. Mrs. Grundy is more omnipotent in
i > | society in America than in Europe. Mrs. Tebb is at Providence,
1)1 R.I. My health is improving; the weather is delightful.
| | W. Tebb.
|si St, Louis Hotel, Quebec, August 31st, 1879.
1 CONDITIONAL IMMORTALITY.
I Sir,—The papers are a good deal exercised at this time about
| the “ Conditional Immortality Association.” The Court Journal
of September 6th has two paragraphs on the subject. That paper
I speaks of it as “ a curious doctrine by which the gift of eternal
I life is limited to believers in Christianity only, the future punish-
i?! ment of the impenitent being, at some indefinite period, to be
1(1 terminated by annihilation. It tells us that a large number of
11 i delegates were then in London “ from the provinces, from Scot-
|)j land and Ireland,” and that this was the second amiual meeting
i)| of the society. They have certainly one salient doctrine in com-
|(| mon with the Theosophists—that of annihilation—but whether
|\j they will be able to hit it off together seems doubtful on other
nj grounds. Still they seem to have had their first general advent
I) | in England about the same time, but 1 suppose there is no con-
|)i nection. The Daily Telegraph of Eriday, the 5th inst., tells
Ki us that at a public meeting of the above society, in St. George’s
11 Hall, Langham-place, the chairman, Mr. Henry I. Ward, of
|)| Liverpool, said, “That the destiny of the lost was eternal death
I) | after resurrection, and for the saved eternal life after resurrection.
1(1 It icould be necessary to grapple toith Spiritualism, and he did
m not hnow who could do so but those icho believed in this.body.”
I)! Scrutator.
A man’s understanding seldom fails him unless his will would
j)i have it so. If he takes a wrong course it is most commonly
j(j because he goes wilfully out of the way, or, at least, chooses to
\j be bewildered; and there are few, if any, who dreadfully mistake,
j>! that are willing to be right.—John Locke.
A Powerful Manifestation.—An article in another column
K| describes how a heavy dining-room table at the house of Mr.
| > | Charles Blackburn, of Hidsbury, kept tilting while Miss Cook,
|)| the medium, was quietly sitting at it. Mr. Harrison, who was
j)! present, says:—“ The table in size and weight is somewhat sug-
i (j gestive of a billiard table; only by violent effort and some pain
III could the writer of the article, and afterwards myself, give it a
I) I single tilt with our knees. By way of experiment I then sat on
m the top of it, near the medium, but it tilted as easily as before,
j 11 All this was in a strong light,”
144
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 19, ISTD.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Ky the late 'Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and sizej
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 5s. 6d. post free.J
)
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid- Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator-
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act. and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—.Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
— Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, Ac. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance. Produced by Passes, or bjr Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley's Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV> Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance-
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis —Cases —Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London
>
)
)
)
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism Has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums forthe physical phe¬
nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should pro¬
tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, u If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, an
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi¬
tive to mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Sept. 19, 1879.
British national associa-
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
OFFICES—G, Akerman Road, Brixton.
The object of the Society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well-known mediums, and are entitled to the use of
books on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., <fcc.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, HON. SEC.
WELDON’S WEDNESDAY
RECITALS. Mrs. Weldon gives an Evening’s
entertainment weekly, at Tavistock House, her re¬
sidence (formerly Charles Dickens’). The programme
is varied by a short Lecture, sacred and romantic;
serious and nursery songs by Gounod, Urieh, and Mrs.
Weldon. Tickets to be had on application free. A
collection is made for Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage,
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
oiiginal position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting •punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
 E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition, enlarged.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE
COMPARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from
Spiritualism with the idea that it is unchristian and
unscriptural. It shows (we think successfully) that
every form of mediumship, now so familiar to Spirit¬
ualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of identical
experiences. Also
HEAVEN OPENED.
Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The two bound in one, Is.
These books, consisting of messages given by
writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth,
and: their group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and
sorrowing parents.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W C.
rgYHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
lOs. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
This second edition is, for its quality and size, the
cheapest large work ever published in this country in
connection with Spiritualism. Price 5s., or 6s. Gd.
post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museqm-street, WLondon,. 0.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Price 3s. Gd. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize.essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of *' M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death." Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V.Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IY.—Gone Home. Given through .the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVI.II.—Haunting Spirits: By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVI I.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M. A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII. — Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Petty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne ; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Scienbe. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
The trapped medium;
OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers.—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price Gd.;
post free, 6£d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
iii
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N. Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—^Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr.
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ? — Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S.
O. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship- Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. 0. Rano, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet-—Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality-
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman— Kant — Strauss—Leon Case-
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6s. Gd.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Sofig of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—Vi I.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X, The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song’’—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,-33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
'DEYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes
XU psychologiques., fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Sodete Anonyme, 5,'Rvl& Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris, Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 19, 1879,
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
A.ND PEOSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
ther standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1,—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—i. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Eaven.
—13. Materialistic Eeligion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—10. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbelrbewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!”—19, The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of ^the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—-23. “ Under the Limes.”
—24. The Angel of Silence.
PART 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wohblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Becep-
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Eifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. — 29. The July Bug.— 30. The Converted
Carman.  
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; consequently
any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a genuine
vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who are hot too
stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on
the contrary, some of his poems touch on the deepest
and most sacred feelings of our common humanity.
. . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his ad¬
ventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is
quite one of the funniest things that has been pub¬
lished for years. . . . The book contains quite
enough to ensure it a welcome from which its tasteful
appearance will not detract.” The Morning Post says
of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in
“ something like the same key as The Bon Gaultier
Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably suc¬
cessful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published, and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Eussell-
street). Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most- laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. These poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The probable effects of
SPIEITU ALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MOEAL, AND EELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second
Gold Medals op the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
MIND AND MATTER,—A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penna,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J. M.
Eoberts, Publisher and Editor, Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order.)
Sample copies free.
THE ALPHA; or, the First Principle
of the Buman Mind; a Eevelation, but no
Mystery. With Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait
of the Author, E. N. Dennys. 370 pages, price 3s. 6d.
‘We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellows.”
—A thenxum.
“It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and
logic than any work we have ever read ; it is a new
revelation, and one of the most remarkable productions
ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan,
Also, just published, with engraving of the Author,
470 pages, price 3s. 6d.
rpHE RELIGION OF LIFE, as exemp-
JL lified by Jesus Christ. A series of Lectures by
the Author of “Alpha.”
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . 7 G
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . 7 6
The Seer. ,. III. „ . .76
The Eeformer. „ IY. ,, . .76
The Thinker. „ V. , ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabuia, or Divine Guest 7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People 7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . '. . ..36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .36
Harbinger of Health 7 6
Harmonial Man ; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Eeligion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers , 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .30
Morning Lectures  7 6
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
THE BIEKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
BECEIPTS EXCEED FOUE MILLIONS.
Researches in the phenomena
OF SPIEITU ALISM, by William Crookes,
F.E S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office. 33, British Museum-street, London,
W.C.
“ T E JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
.1 J published every week under the editorship of
Mens. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Kue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOE TWO GUINEAS PEE MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Eent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIEKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PEE MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIEKBECK FEEEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCBOFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue'de
la Cossonerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
DR. CARTER-BLAKE’S BRITISH
MUSEUM LECTUBES will be recommenced
in the middle of October next, when arrangements on
a large scale will be made to render the British Museum
(as suggested by the Principal Librarian) useful for
the purposes of general tuition before schools.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interesta
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author)
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
** Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready, 48 pp. Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS FOR SEPTEMBER, 1879.
Mesmerism; by S. De Morgan—Popular Errors and
Objections to Spiritualism explained and answered—
The Jewish Kabbalah; by J. W.F.—Spiritualism a
New Basis of Belief; by J. S. Farmer—Memorable
Relations : Ghosts in Tyrol; by A. M. Howitt Watts—
Notes and Gleanings: Spiritualistic Contrasts ; Mr.
Spurgeon versus Modern Society; Professor Gairdner
on Spiritualism; Spiritualism and Morals; Exposures
of Spiritualism; Shelley’s Religious Convictions;
Spirirtualism the Up-Builder of a Rational Faith);
Scientific Claim of Spiritualism—Sonnets to a Sister,
of Mercy; by J. T. Markley.
LONJlON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
GLASGOW Hay Nisbet & Co. 52, Kopework-lane
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini*
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable Upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge,_ the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS EAVENSCEOF T, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Price 5s. Or. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“ M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
CONTENTS.
The Correlation of Spiritual Phenomena 133
Principle versus Emotion 133
The Mareou 135
Miss Cook’s Siances at Parkfield, Didsbury. By a
Sceptic  i  135
The Origin of Life; By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S,
Author of “Letters to Miss Martineau”  137
“Veritable and Singular Account of an Apparition,
and the Saving of a Soul, in Castle Weixel-
stein, in Krain. By Captain E. F. Burton,
H.M. Consul at Trieste  138
Dreams. By the Eev. J. M. Dixon  140
“Passed to the Higher Life.” By C. Reimers  142
Sorcerers in Guernsey   143
Correspondence:—Mr. William Tebb in Canada
—Conditional Immortality  143
Paragraphs:—A New Legal “Position,’’ 135; A
Powerful Manifestation  143
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents,
High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by W. H. Harrison, 33, British Museum
street London W.C
