EeGimebed as a Newspaper
#Itef jr0nmrf^ foif^ Sphikalism in <&xmt §niamt
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : xxt Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246. Boule
yard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 343. (Vol. XIV.—No. 12.) LONDON : FRIDAY; MARCH 21, 1879. Published Weekly j Price Twopence.
GTontentss.
Materialisation Manifestations...   138
Spontaneousjpsyehological Phenomena. By Eliza Boucher 134
Visitors from the Dead...   134
National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the
Councii   135
An Interesting Experiment     135
Sunday Services at the Cavendish Booms ...   136
The Clairvoyant Power    137
Stolen Property Recovered by the Use of Psychic Powers 138
Spiritualism in Australia:—The Materialisation of Spirits 138
Not Dead, but Risen    ... ... '. 138
Waters in the Desert. By Ella Dietz. (Poetry.)  138
Two Experiences of the Process of Death. By the Hon. J.
L. O’Sullivan, formerly American Minister at the
Court of Portugal   139
“ 0 Death, Where is Thy Sting?” By Edith Saville.
(Poetry.) 140
Correspondence:—Spirit Identity—Madame Blavatsky—
Phenomenal Spiritualism—Spirit Messages upon Mes¬
merism and Mediumship—The Abolition of Capital
Punishment—Spiritualism in the United States—The
Sensations of a Medium—“ Truth is Stranger than
Fiction..-. ...     141
The Demise of Mr. William Howitt 143
In Memoriam:—Eva Maud Morris. (Poetry.)  144
To Correspondents 144
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
fPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica-
ions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, 0.E, F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness ;v His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein): Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof. Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Ilonywodd; Mr. Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the*'Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A^ LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling«
oury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson .'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. 104.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Panl’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: . 87, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Ofifloe.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News-
pap er BranehOffioe, 38, Great RusseU-street London, W.O.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co, London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS.
The Offices of the Association will be open between the
hours of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except
Saturday, when they will be open between the hours of 2 p.m.
and 6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR MARCH, 1879.
Monday, 3rd.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Paper by Dr. George Wyld on “ Christian
Occultism.”
Wednesday, 5th.—Solrde Committee at 5 p.m.
„ „ House and Offices Committee at
5.30 p.m.
Friday, 7th, and every succeeding Friday.—Experi¬
mental Research Committee at 6.30 p.m.
Tuesday, llfft.—Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Monday, VIth.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Paper by Mr. Alexander Calder on “ The
New Era.”
Friday, 21s#.—Library Committee at 4.30 p.m.
At cavendish rooms, mortimer
STREET, REGENT STREET, LONDON, March
30th, a Meeting will be held to celebrate the 31st Anniversary
of Modem Spiritualism. The programme will consist of
short speeches from noted speakers.
A GRAND SOIREE, to conclude with dancing, will also
be given at the same place on Wednesday Evening, April 2nd.
Tickets may be had of Mr. Fletcher, 4, Bloomsbury-place,
W.C.; Miss C. Leslie-Younge, 32, Fairfax-road, N.W.; Mrs.
Maltby, 61, Gower-street; Mr. Caleb Bull, 32, Crawford-
street; Mr. Frank Everitt, 26, Penton-street.
BRIXTON psychological society.
OFFICES—6, Akerman-HOAD, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, HON. SEO.
The Religion op Spiritualism.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Will LECTURE
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
At the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer Street, W.
Admission Free,
Lecture begins at 7.30. Doors closed at 7.45.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following Engagements:—Hastings, Gensing Hall,
Afternoon and Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial
Society, February 4. Plymouth Mechanics’ Institute, February
12 (second time this season). Redruth Institution, February
13. Truro Institution, February 14 (second time this season).
Leamington Institute, February 25. Finchley (Church end),
February 27. Croydon Literary Institution, March 6 (second
time). Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-
street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
March 12th, April 9th, May 14th, June 11th. Tickets 5s., 3s.,
2s., and Is.
N.B.—The Second Recitation of the Series will be given on
Friday, February 28, instead of Ash Wednesday, February 26.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
NO. 4. JANUARY. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Is Immortality a Delusion? By Epes Sargent.
II.—Sister Celeste. By J. C. Earle.
III. —Spiritual Philosophy in Relation to Death and Spirit Life.
By Rev. J. Page Hopps.
IV. —Inspiration. No. 2. By Mrs. De Morgan.
V.—Reminiscences of George Thompson. By his Daughter,
Mrs. Nosworthy,
VI.—Zetalethes, the Truthseeker. By Miss Greenfield.
VII.—The Mound-Builders. By William Denton.
VIII.—Montanism.
Materialistic Mysticism—A Geologist’s Confession—The Seat
of Evil’
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may he obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERTS for 1879, containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, &c., &e., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I. by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “ Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kislingbury’e Paper.
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mr. Calder, “ The New Era.”
April 7.—Mr. Morell Theobald, “Experiences in the Home
Circle,” No. 2.
April 21.—The Rev. W. Miall, “ Exoteric Observation in Spirit¬
ualism.”
May5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., “Recent Research i
the Phenomena of Suiritualism.”
May 19.—
June 2.—Mr. G. F. Green, “ Spiritualism and its Teachings, in
their relation to Problems of Government.”
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ Review of the Session.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything qf the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can lie
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & 00.
Show Rooms 3, Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, e.c.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, Ac., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER.
SUNDAY EVENING LECTURES. CAVENDISH ROOMS
MORTIMER STREET, W.
The Committee beg to announce that tickets may be se¬
cured by applying to Miss Leslie-Younge, Hon. Sec., 32,
Fairfax-road, N.W. Reserved numbered chairs for the course
of thirteen lectures, £1 Is.; side seats for the course, 12s. 6d.;
reserved chairs for single lecture, 2s. 6d.
No money taken or tickets issued at the doors.  
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customei s,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold am)
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
 FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
11
THE SPIKITUALIST,
Maech 21,
BBITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alox. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1. Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G-, M.s.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Honywood. Mrs., S3, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Helper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill. '
lilnney, F A., 24, St Ann s-square, Manchester
Boiiwick, J„ F.R.G.S.. Yale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H„ 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Ifyev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, S, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 84, Walnut-street, Oheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 8. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hiil. Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bari., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A., Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road, Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., TTniversity College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, tBlundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson. C.. 15. Harpur-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgili, W. C., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers. Christian, 47, Morningion-^oad Regent’s-park.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas, Oxford. *
Theobald, Morell, 82, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M.. 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner ,J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J-, 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M. A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square. West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Witftall, JL, 1, q?Jie Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Eeq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W, Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq, Morell Theobald, Esq.
Secretary.
Miss Burke, 38, GreatRussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.-
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
. via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delliez, Wien, Austria.
f. M. Peebles,Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta,
lames Mylne, Esq-, Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Gennany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy 1,
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.SAl.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L: Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, Sew York, U.S-A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J.Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S-A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., II, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de I’Europe,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq.,9 ,Montgomery-pIace, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, EtterbeckjBrussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut -Col. P. Jacoby, 11 ,Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe. Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S,, H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. WaUace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hili,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epcjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Moatgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock. 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road. S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vastq, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 78, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York.
T. Blyton, Esq., 58, Slgdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Molra-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. For
terms, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Government prosecutions for
MEDICAL HERESY: a Verbatim Report of the Case
“ Regina v. Tebb.” Dedicated to the Board of St. Pancras
Guardians, London. With letters from the Right Hon. W. E.
Gladstone, M.P., the Right Hon. John Bright, M.P., and others.
Forty pp., Price 2d., or Is. 9d. per dozen, or 12s. per 100. This
pamphlet should be circulated largely during elections of
Guardians and Members of Parliament. Published by Edward
W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,-
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
" Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small Svo, price 3s. 6d, London, W.O. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state oj trance
during which some oj the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Past L
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—IL The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Pabt IL
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. My Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXL Love.—XXII. “For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer XXIV. Resurrexb—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVIX. The Cradle or Coffin.—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth:
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1,price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE, COM
PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It shows
(we think successfully) that every form of mediumship, now so
familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of
identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The
two bound in one, Is.—These books, consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting eon-;
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in iheir Spirit home.
They are well calculate 1 to comfort bereaved and sorrowing
parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
T3RIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
Ji-9 tained in Brighton of Messrs Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Bough ton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLAGE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANOE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terraoe, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 35, Biurton-road, Clap-
ton-park, E.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private stances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O. 
MRS. M. G. PARKER, MESMERIC
HEALER and DEVELOPING MEDIUM, 66, War-
wick-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Aretie explorer who went in search of Sir John Franklin
gives Seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Bruns wick-square,
from 2 to 5, every day except Sunday, and every evening from
8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engagements can be made
by letter sent to the above address.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients and maybe consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vemon-plaoe, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5. Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday evenings, office hours, owing to press of business,
extended to nine o’clock.
SAMUEL W. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
A SELECT CIRCLE is in course of forma¬
tion to hold weekly Seances with a Physical Medium
Applicants wishing to join said circle are requested to send
names and addresses to B. O., care of Miss Burke, 38, Great
Russell-street, W.O.—Each member is expected to contribute
his quota towards suitable remuneration of the Medium. \
ITnnali dello spiritIsmo in
-OL ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, vifi Bogino, No. 23.
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JLVi logiques, fondS par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSICHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE, a narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
Brighton.—miss wood, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. — Terms on
application.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3 per week
each ; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Cos-
sonnerie, Paris.
% §§ ttf {§ mh. xS ^jttJjii^nH^m*
Ko. 343.—Voj-ujvie Fourteen; Number Twelve.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 2Jst, 1879.
MATERIALISATION MANIFESTATIONS. j |
For tlie last fifteen years or more manifestations have I |
been common in which mediums have been released, in the | j
twinkling of an eye, from the most intricate bonds. All I !
the mediums who obtain the common strong physical mani- j j j
festations in the shape of musical instruments flying about ;|; I
the room, also easily obtain the manifestation of being freed j j
almost instantaneously from bonds, however intricate they jjj
may be. The Davenport Brothers are a notable instance in j j
point. Mr. Coleman, in his Rise and Progress of Spirit- jjj
ualism m England^ says:— j j j
Mr. W. Fay, who accompanied the brothers to England, was at the j jl
Hanover-square Rooms when Professor Taylor, as he was called (who | j j
lectured at the Coliseum against Spiritualism as long as it paid, but j) j
who since then has become a convert, and is now a proclaimed Spirit- i (l
ualist), tied Mr. Fay up in a most intricate way with a long piece of j j!
rope, making many knots, and fastening the final knot at the back of j ) j
the chair. It was then sealed by Colonel Drayson (I think it was he jjj
who is an astronomer of high repute in her Majesty’s service at Wool- ! j
wich, and an avowed Spiritualist), and in two or three minutes, when the j j j
light was restored, we found Mr. Fay liberated, with every knot j j j
removed, except the final knot, which, of course, under ordinary circum- j )
stances must have been the first to be loosened before the other inter- j (j
mediate knots could be untied. This, however, the final knot, with the j j j
seal intact remained, and is the identical piece which I cut off and j) i
carried away, and which I have had in my possession ever since. j j j
Once, at tbe request of the mediums, we quietly spent j j
the greater part of a morning in tying Messrs. Herne and j j i
"Williams back to back, in two chairs, with one long length j j
of rope ; their hands and arms were hanging straight down- j j
wards, and were tied at the wrists and elbows to the back j 11
rails of their chairs, whilst the final knot was under one of | j
the lower bars beyond their reach, and sealed with wax. All j j j
the knots in the thick rope were then bound round with J
twine and sealed, and the spirits were requested to release j j j
the mediums without undoing the final knot, just as in the J j
case described by Mr. Coleman. The folding doors of the j
sfance-voom were pulled too to put the apartment in darkness, j J
and in a few seconds, in our presence, the two mediums j j
were free, with the final knot untampered with and its seal j j
unbroken. The mediums had been bound hand and foot, j j
waist and neck. j j
In Colonel Olcott’s book, People from the Other World, it i j j
is narrated how he tested Mrs. Compton’s mediumship by j
removing her earrings, seating her in a chair in the cabinet, j
and fastening her to the chair by passing some No. 50 j
sewing-thread through the perforations in her ears. He I i
sealed the thread to the back of the chair with sealing wax, | |
which he stamped with his private signet. He then I j
fastened the chair to the floor with thread and wax in a J j
secure manner. He says that she was so fixed that she j j
could not move from her place; a slight pull would have j j
snapped the threads, and revealed any attempt at trickery, j j j
The cabinet consisted only of a plastered partition run j
across one corner of the room, and it was just large enough J
inside to admit of a person sitting in the apex of the j
triangle. There was no window, trap, or outlet of any j j j
description except through the door of the partition facing j j
the spectators. Under these conditions what purported to j j i
be a materialised spirit, and called herself il Katie,” came j j
out of the cabinet dressed in white, and was weighed three j j j
times in succession by Colonel Olcott by means of scales j
provided for the purpose. At the first trial the weight was j
seventy-seven pounds, at the second fifty-nine, and at the j j
third fifty-two. The medium weighed 121 pounds. While j \
Katie was outside he entered the cabinet, looking carefully j
everywhere, and feeling cautiously all about it, but no i
vestige of the medium or anybody else could be found; the j
chair was there, but no bodily presence in it. At the close j j
of the stance he went inside with a lamp, and found the j!
medium just as he had left her at the beginning of the ill
stance with every thread unbroken, and every seal undis¬
turbed, but in a dead trance, and as cold as marble; her eye¬
balls were turned up beneath the lids. Every person present
examined the threads and seals before the slender bonds were
cut with a pair of scissors, in order to release the medium.
Since then many experiments of the same kind have been
tried by different persons with Mrs. Compton, and published
in the Banner of Light, all establishing the same fact.
On the other hand there is in Spiritualism another kind of
manifestation, obtained through the same kind of medium-
ship, in which materialised hands, usually duplicates of those
of the mediums, go about and perform various operations.
Once at a public seance Mr. Bastian, the medium, sat in a
corner of the room with his head and shoulders visible above
a shawl, pinned from wall to wall, across the rest of his
body, in order to give that partial darkness in which spirits
usually materialise hands. He further asked Captain James,
of Lee, to sit alongside him, behind the enclosure formed by
the wall, in order to bear witness that he did not mover
Under these conditions materialised hands and arms flitted
about occasionally over the heads and shoulders of the
medium, and of Captain James, in full sight of all the
spectators. One of the hands picked up and rang a bell which,
at the request of one of the sitters, had been placed a short
distance in front of the shawl.
A still further development of this kind of power is found
in what are called materialised spirit forms. The majority
of such which have been witnessed in England have been
duplicates in appearance of the' medium; that is to say, that
their features have been so much alike as frequently to render
it difficult to say that there was any variation at all.
Mr. Harrison says:—
I once was at a very harmonious dark seance in Mr. Williams’s rooms,
sitting by his side, holding his hand tightly, our feet—and often our
shoulders—touching. After a time a light flashed up, and a large white
moving form was seen high over the table, and John King asked whether
I saw him. I told him that I saw something white, but that I wanted
to see his eyes sparkling, and his lips moving up there, while I had hold
of the medium. He promised to try again, and after a bit he looked
down at me, asking whether I saw him. I replied that I saw his lips
moving, and that as he spoke I saw his eyes sparkling; in fact, I saw
him quite distinctly. I saw the figure nearly as far down as the waist,
and his waist was at about the level of the head of Mr. Williams, whom
I was holding. He was the duplicate in appearance of Mr. Williams,
having exactly his features, and on this occasion no black beard. This
sitting settled at once and for ever in my mind the question as to the
possibility of duplication of form. On another occasion Prince Wittgen¬
stein invited Mr. Williams to his rooms at the Buckingham Palace
Hotel. Mr. Williams came alone, and the same manifestation was
obtained there, the spirit being seen floating by Prince Wittgenstein
over the prostrate body of the medium, as authenticated in an article
written by the former in these pages. Electrical experiments, which I
have witnessed, convinced me on two occasions that there was duplica
tion of form then, if not always.
Thus, there is absolute evidence that the spirits who pro¬
duce the manifestations have the power of slipping their
mediums out of bonds and putting them back again in the
twinkling of an eye; also that they can, if they like,
produce a genuine materialisation. Moreover, there is reason
to suppose that they sometimes do the one and sometimes
the other, perhaps without intention on their part.
The probability is, as revealed by the experiments initiated
by Mr. Blackburn, that as the materialised form gains in
weight, the medium loses weight, and vice versa; also, that
the fluctuations in this see-saw interchange of weight are
sometimes exceedingly large and rapid.
The process of freeing from ropes and leaving the knots
intact, probably consists in the formation of a phantom
i( double” of the medium, which gradually grows more solid,
until all the medium is there, and none of him left inside
the ropes.
It would be well to discover where the drapery comes from;
it is common stuff, made by man, and brought in from some-
134
THE SPIKITUALIST.
March 21, 1879.
where. : When a mediudi is held hand and foot all through j j
a dark stance, the self-illuminated forms which materialise | j
and float about are covered with abundance of drapery. |
Where does it come from ? Sometimes it is not in the house j
when the dance begins. !
SPONTANEOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA. |
BY ELIZA BOUCHEK. j (
In a small religious work of the Hedley Yicarian type,
named The Morning of Life, a memoir, written in 1850 by
an intimate friend of the mesmeric subject, whose name,
however (as well as that of the authoress), is doubtless from
some feeling of delicacy unfortunately suppressed, I found
many years ago the annexed extraordinary narrative of an
apparition which made such a vivid impression on my girlish j
mind that long, long afterwards I gladly purchased a copy of j
the book, which I accidentally met with at a second-hand
bookstall. I cannot help thinking that the account of so
strange a phenomenon deserves a better fate than to pass
away into that oblivion which has perhaps long, ere this,
overtaken the little volume, of which, from a psychological
point of view, it was the only, ornament. j
The authoress, in her preface, remarks : “ What consti¬
tutes the value of this little memorial is emphatically its
truth—4ruth of principle, truth of practice, and truth of fact
—or a true relation of the providential dealings of God both
in its record of outward events and in the inward teachings
of His Spirit.”
In February, 1840, Miss A n, the subject of the
memoir, was in London, and separated from a sister to j
whom she was most fondly attached. u A complete union j
of thought bound them together more closely than ordinary j
natural ties could have done. Miss A n was counting j
the hours until she should embrace her dear sister, and re- j
solved that nothing but unforeseen circumstances should I
ever cause them the trial of another separation. One |
Sunday morning she was lying in bed asleep, when she was |
awoke by feeling a hand gently laid on her head; she j j
opened her eyes, and finding it yet dark, wondered who I
could call her so early; she turned round and saw a bright j
figure standing by her bedside; a black veil covered the j
face” [this seems to point very strongly to the spirituality of j
symbol teaching], “ so that she could not distinguish the j
features, but the whole figure was robed in light as dazzling j
as that of the sun, which shone through the covering of the j
face. It made a farewell sign with the hand and disappeared. j
Miss A n trembled violently. Being naturally possessed of ! !
much courage, it shows how the flesh quails at being brought i j
even for an instant into the presence of a being from the I
unseen world. As it is said in Job iv., * Fear came upon J
me, and trembling, which made all my bones to shake. Then |
a spirit passed before my face; the hair of my flesh stood up.’ j
She felt convinced that some sorrow awaited her from the !
black veil the figure wore ; but she never guessed the truth, j
On Monday morning the friend with whom she was staying j
received a letter from , informing her that the beloved j
sister had died on Sunday morning about the very time that j
Miss A n had the remarkable vision. She had appeared j
in better health than usual for some time past, and had j j
retired to her room on Saturday evening feeling compara- j
tively well. An attack of apoplexy came on quite suddenly, J
medical aid was obtained, but it only revived her for a j
minute, when she exclaimed, ‘ For ever with the Lord,’ | j
relapsed into insensibility, and spoke no more. A short time j |
before her death she said to a friend, ‘ I have been thinking j j
that Bessie (the sister) and I will never leave each other’s j J
side in glory.’ This little remark showed the deep love she ] j
bore her sister. Bessie’s beloved friend, Mrs. E., felt so j |
overcome at these sad tidings, that she asked a much- I I
esteemed Christian brother to come and dine with them, and j j
afterwards to break the news to the bereaved one. The latter j |
had felt much cast down and bewildered ever since the strange | !
appearance, so that when she heard Mr. D. had arrived, she j j
determined to mention it to him, hoping he would give her j !
some explanation which would set her mind at rest. She 11
therefore told him she should be glad to have a little conver- j I
sation with him after dinner, as she had something to com- | jj
municate. As she rose to leave, the room, he opened the door 1 v
I for her, and she noticed he looked at her mournfully, and his
| eyes filled with tears. She thought it very singular, and
| was pondering over all that had passed when he entered. He
did not allow her time to tell him what she wished, but
I knelt down at once, saying, ‘ Let us pray,’ and then in his
J prayer gradually broke to her the sad news of her sister’s
j departure from this life. She fell senseless on the floor, and
j remained unconscious for twenty minutes.”
I have given the narrative verbatim. At its close the
j authoress says, “ Miss A n’s impression was that her
| sister’s spirit was permitted, when leaving the earth, to take
j a farewell glance at the one she was leaving behind, and that
God opened her eyes as a forewarning, and to lead her to
expect that some affliction would befall her, so that when the
sad tidings should arrive they would not find her wholly
unprepared.” Then follow other suggestions, extending
over a page and a half, and of course exhibiting to an almost
ludicrous extent the utter ignorance of psychological know¬
ledge which generally prevailed at that time, ending up
with—“ Though most of the reports of supernatural mani¬
festations are evidently the results of fear or excitement, yet
occasionally we meet with accounts well attested, like
the one before us, of which we can offer no natural expla¬
nation.”
“But there is no fear, for we cannot see into the world of
spirits without having our eyes opened; and if God saw fit
to open them for some wise purpose, would He not also give
us strength to bear the sight ? Whether Satan can accom¬
plish the same seems doubtful; but we do know that he
has no power over the saints, that he cannot touch a
hair of their heads without God’s permission. The
Christian, therefore, has nothing to dread, for God is love,
and would not cause His children needless fear.”
These last reflections, while attesting the entire simplicity
and sincerity of the writer, are and will become increasingly
interesting, as exhibiting the antiquated and now almost
fossilised habit of religious thought which prevailed at the
time this memoir Was written, which, remember, was only in
1850, and, consequently, not thirty years ago !
Albion Villa, Fremantle-square, Bristol.
VISITOES FROM THE DEAD.
A valued correspondent, says the editor of The London
Express, sends us the following:—
I have read with great interest Mr. Harrison’s lecture on
death-bed apparitions and haunted houses, delivered before
the British Association of Spiritualists. . . . But in truth
the subject-matter of Mr. Harrison’s lecture is nothing new,
and it is worth while asking why most people think it
necessary, in order to maintain a character for sound common
sense, to repudiate all belief in the supernatural, while at
the same time those very people, if brought to a severe test,
prove by their conduct that they have a secret faith in that
which they ridicule. If I say I do not ridicule all idea of
the dead sometimes visiting the scenes of their former life,
all belief in that class of dream which in the Scripture is
called a vision; still more if I avow any faith in “ second
sight,” I see by the superior smiles of those whom I address
—if not by their words—that they “ write me down an ass.”
I am supposed to believe in luck;” to tremble if a black
dog comes into the garden; to welcome a black cat; to
avoid turning a mattress on Sunday; to look out for
gibbering ghosts in churchyards, and swear, by the Night
Side of Nature, not to cherish a secret faith in the Cock-lane
Ghost. Yet few, perhaps, of these “superior persons”
would care to cross a lonely churchyard at midnight; many
would be uneasy if they heard a death-watch ; and not one
but would turn white if a mysterious sound were heard in the
room in the dead of night. They have not, then, the courage
of their opinions.
I, for my part, have no belief in “ luck,” death-watches,
or other groundless superstitions ; but I frankly avow a belief
in the fact that the spirits of the dead do sometimes appear to
the living; that dreams are sometimes prophetic and warn¬
ing ; that lt second sight ” does exist. "When I add that I
am of mixed Highland, Irish, and German blood, a pre-dis¬
position to belief in the supernatural will be held to account
March 21, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
135
for what the tc superior ” will call “ sheer superstition.” Be
it so; but the pre-disposition has been confirmed by facts. I
will state a few of these, which may serve to gather similar
experience from others of your readers. I cannot ask any¬
one to believe them, because they do not know me, and do
not know on what foundation I build my credence; nor can
they estimate the value of my integrity. Still, I give these
stories for what (to the general public) they are worth.
An old and faithful friend of my own, whom I have known
since childhood, a woman by no means superstitious, and
incapable of falsehood, having, besides, no motive for so
doing, was once stopping in,a house in London for a couple
of days. The people were total strangers to her, and she
knew nothing of their family history. On the morning
following her arrival, she awoke with a start, and was sur
prised to see a lady in her apartment, engaged in—the truth
must be told—lacing her corset. Thinking some mistake
had been made, she sate up in amazement, when the figure
disappeared. The lady related the occurrence to the house¬
keeper later in the day, upon which the latter looked very
grave and said—lt I would give anything this had not
happened. That lady’s appearance always presages the
death of the master of the house.” The master died suddenly
a few days afterwards.
Some years ago my brother was at sea with a young
officer remarkable for his grave demeanour and the absence
of that careless humour generally characteristic of seamen.
This man made a <l chum ” of my brother, and often spoke
to him of a favourite sister. One morning he appeared very
downcast; on my brother inquiring the cause, he informed him
that he had seen this sister lying ill in bed (the family lived
in Ireland), and he described minutely the scene in the
apartment, and those who were present. The child had
called for him. Day and hour were noted down, and it was
afterwards discovered that at that time the child had died,
anxiously asking for her far-distant brother.
Some of your readers will, perhaps, recollect a remarkable
story which was published in All the Year Round, entitled
t( Steer N.W. by W.” I may not be absolutely correct in
longitude and latitude, as I speak from memory ; that story
related how the captain of a ship, going into his cabin, saw
a clergyman seated at his table writing in the log-book.
The figure vanished, but the captain, looking on the page, saw
the above words actually written. He obeyed the mysterious
summons, and came at length upon a waterlogged ship, on
which were a few men in the last stage of need; among
them he at once recognised the clergyman he had seen in
his cabin. I was one day mentioning this story to my
brother, and wondering if it could be true, when he at once
confirmed it, adding that he had sailed with one of the
rescued men, and had heard the whole story from him before
it appeared in the pages of the periodical.
I once knew a woman of the highest integrity, but
singularly free from superstition; indeed, she was a painfully
unimaginative person in all respects. This woman told me
that she had distinctly seen hovering over her room door the
face of an old friend, of whom she was not at the time
thinking, and who was, so far as she knew, quite well. A
letter shortly came announcing the death of this friend, and
adding that she had in her last moments repeatedly desired
to see t{ Mary Anne,” the Christian name of the narrator of
these circumstances.
I fear I have already trespassed too far on your space, but
will, in conclusion, add one story of a “ haunted house,”
which came to me through a life-long friend. The house
was a large one in South London. I do not remember what
tragedy had happened within its walls, but it was said to be
haunted, and asserted, moreover, that whoever inhabited it
was certain to meet with misfortune. One tenant had lost
a number of valuable horses, and so on. A friend of the
lady who told me this—a prosperous man—took the house,
despising the stories he heard. Only a niece lived with
him, and female servants. This lady soon declared that at
night she heard heavy footsteps ascend the stairs, but could
see no one. She asked my friend to pass a night with her,
and my friend did so. She was aural witness of the mys¬
terious footsteps, but again no one was seen, though the
steps passed the door of the apartment. During his tenancy
of this house misfortunes came thick and fast on Mr. ,
j and he left it a poor man. Both he and his niece are still
| living, and might perhaps be willing to relate their experi-
! ences to Mr. Blanchard.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A council meeting was held at the rooms of the National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, London, on
Tuesday evening last week, Mr. Calder, president, in the chair. The
other members present were Mr. Theobald, Mr. and Mrs. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Bennett, Mr. E. D. Rogers, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr.
March, Mrs. Maltby, Miss Withall, the Rev. T. Colley, Mr. Reimers,
Mr. Stainton Moses, and Miss Houghton.
The attention of the Council having been called to the death of Mr.
William Howitt, on the motion of Mr. Bennett, seconded by Mr.
Stainton Moses, a vote of recognition of the services of Mr. William
Howitt in connection with Spiritualism, and sympathy with his family,
was carried unanimously.
The following were elected ordinary members of the Association :—
Mr.’ and Mrs. Green, Dr. Maurice Davies, Mrs. Tebb, Miss Brassinne,
Mr. Rosevel, and Mr. Joseph Cliffe.
The secretary then read the following letter:—
38, Great Russell-street, Feb. lltb, 1879.
To the Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—I write to resign my seat on your Council. The chief reason
is that I find we have no proper control of our committees, so that public acts are performed
for which members of Council are responsible, but of which they know nothing. For
instance, I found that three printed circulars, with the words “ British National Association
of Spiritualists ” at the top, had been printed and issued to the public by Mr. Bennett, at
Richmond. The circulars did not tell the public to communicate with the secretary, but
with Mr. Bennett. The Council would not have known anything about these circulars had
I not accidentally discovered their existence some months after they had been printed.
Further, our committees sometimes take up work they have not been ordered to take up,
spend money without having the items previously sanctioned by the Council, and exercise
the power of recording minutes of business which they do not report to the Council.
Lastly, one of them has just issued a circular, which its members, or subordinates, have
ordered us to treat as “ private and confidential.” I submit that our stewards have no right
to give us such orders, and that our constituents have given us no authority to carry on any
secret work whatever on their behalf ; also that until, as in town councils, all minutes of
our committees shall be of no effect or authority until read- over to and adopted by the
Council, the power of the Council is broken, and it has little control over much for which it
is responsible. Having failed to induce you to adopt that system of working which is'
common all over the kingdom, I respectfully give in this resignation.—Truly yours,
W. H. HARRISON.
Mr. Stainton Moses moved—
That Mr. Harrison’s resignation be accepted, with an expression of regret at the insinua¬
tions directed by him, in language highly reprehensible, against the action of this Council
and of one of its committees, and with a further expression of regret at the repetition by
Mr. Harrison of charges in themselves trivial and baseless, and unworthy of serious
attention.
Mr. Theobald seconded the resolution, which was passed
unanimously.
The following additional letters of resignation were announced to
have been received from the undermentioned members, but were not
read:—From Mr. Charles Blackburn, of his "Vice-Presidency of the
Association and his seat on the Council; from Mr. G. C. Joad, Mr. W.
Newton, and Mrs. Louisa Lowe, of their seats on the Council; from
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. C. C. Massey, and Mr. W. Eglinton, of
their membership of the Association.
The foregoing resignations were unanimously accepted.
The report of the Finance Committee of the 28th February, 1879,
was laid before the Council, which showed' a balance in hand of
£119 17s. 7d., recommended payments to the extent of £12 16s., and
estimated the outstanding liabilities at £5.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald said that it was now four months since the first of
the letters which Mr. Colley addressed to The Medium appeared. That
letter contained insinuations of a disgraceful character in relation to
certain of the authorities of the Association. He again called upon
him to substantiate those charges, and would move that otherwise he
be invited to withdraw from the Council.
Mr. Colley read a passage from The Spiritualist, in which it was
stated that Mr. Fitz-Gerald had said there were certain discrepancies
between his account of an occurrence and another account which had
been given of it. In justification of his own account, he read a letter
which he had received from Mr. Owen Harries. Mr. Fitz-Gerald might
have understood that he (Mr. Colley) was the first person to find the
articles in the bag, but he (Mr. Colley) had certainly not stated so.
What he had said was that in the presence of the assembled family he
opened the portmanteau and took out the articles, being quite willing to
take upon himself the responsibility of removing them without impli¬
cating Mr. Owen Harries, who was the host of the medium at that
time. Mr. Harries had admitted to him that he (Mr. Colley) was
correct in his statement as to the opening of the portmanteau, and he
had made a note of the transaction in his diary. He then added that
he had made his assertions against the Council on the authority of two
persons.
The production of the evidence was then called for, but it not being
forthcoming, another month was allowed to Mr. Colley for the substan¬
tiation of his charges, Mr. Fitz-Gerald postponing bis motion for that
time.
One of the motions of which Mr. Colley had given notice was with¬
drawn, the other was not seconded, and the proceedings closed.
Next Sunday week, being the thirty-first anniversary of the advent
of modern Spiritualism, a celebration of it will take place at the
Cavendish Rooms, and the meeting will be addressed by a variety of
speakers. Mr. Fletcher’s Sunday services at those rooms will be con¬
tinued under the management of a committee formed to defray the
necessary expenses.
136
March 21, 1879,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
SUNDAY SERVICES AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS.
The services of the Sunday Lyceum were held at 11 a.m., March
16th, and several new members were admitted to the various classes.
The subject given out by the superintendent, Mr. Desmond-Fitz-
Gerald, on the previous Sunday, was “ The Constitution of Man.” Mr.
Fitz-G-erald addressed the school for half an hour in an interesting
manner. The “ guardians ” of the classes were then requested to hear
the views of their pupils, some of whom rose in their seats and stated
them to the whole school; after this a number of recitations was given.
On Sunday evening the hall was filled at an early hour by a large and
appreciative audience to listen to the inspirational address of Mr. J. W.
Fletcher: a great many persons were unable to gain admission, and
every foot of standing room was taken. The following is a summary of
the address, the subject of which was—“ What are the Occupations of
the Spirits in the Transition Sphere ? ” For the benefit of those who
have not been present at the previous lectures, we would say that we
have been dealing altogether with the subject of the transition sphere,
which in no way means the spirit world. The transition sphere is the
stepping-stone to the spirit world—in that condition of spiritual life
where the spirit divests itself of all the earth life conditions th£it may
cling to it, and is prepared through various experiences for an entrance
into the higher spiritual life. The earth upon which you stand represents
the spiritual life in the physical; the heavenly spheres represent the
spiritual life divested of the physical; while this sphere of the transition
is the mean between those two extremes, is the tract of country over
which the spirit must travel in its journey heavenward; therefore, when
we speak of the transition sphere, we mean that condition through
Which every human soul must pass, and the experience which awaits
each human soul, directly after the change called death. The
transition sphere is the great zonal belt that surrounds this planet, and
extends as far as the atmosphere of this planet extends. And when the
question is asked, Where are the dead? Where are those who yesterday
were with us, and to-day are gone ? Are they in heaven ? No, they are in
the sphere of transition ; they are within and around the world
in which you live. Not for punishment, but for education and
development—an education which shall fit them for the higher
life of the future. When we look over the wide world, and find human
minds struggling for knowledge, wisdom, and truth, the question comes
to us—What does all this mean ? Is the inspiration of a poet, and the
wisdom of the scientist, and the power of the artist to be unfolded in
this world and then to pass down the tide of time for ever? Are all the
struggles and efforts that are made, many of which are crowned with
success, to pass into oblivion simply because death comes and changes
our relation to this-world? If there is no use and value in the know¬
ledge and possibilities that are gained in this world, how little minds
have to encourage them in their labour. You who have children,
endeavour to give them the.best education you can; but if that educa¬
tion is only held to the life in which they now live, yon are but poorly
paid for what you have done, and they but poorly rewarded for the
efforts they have made. And a man without that which has
made him great and good, made him wise and strong, would lose
the individuality with which he has seemingly been endowed.
There are, then, only two positions to be taken. Either the human
spirit takes with it all that it has gained and achieved in this world
to still use and carry forward to greater results in the spirit life, or,
leaving the knowledge and experience gained behind, the human spirit
after the change called death becomes a nonentity. "What are the occu¬
pations of the spirits in the transition sphere 1 You ask of the Christian
what he will do after death, and he will tell you that all day long,
throughout the unborn years of the future, he will sing praises to
God, and wave palms, and shout hosannas ; that he will wander
through the pearly gates of heaven ; that he will gaze upon the rivers
and seas of glass; that he will be lost in wonder amid the magnificence
and splendour of the holy city, and his chief and only occupation will
be in singing psalms to God. Then it would seem, in the light of jthat
thought, that the end of all human struggling and endeavour is simple
psalm-singing and palm-waving. The grand and noble mind that has
towered above its fellows, the martyrs who have become immortal
through the sacrifices they have made and the good they have done,
would step down from the high position they have taken, would lose
as it were that which had made them great, and spend the hours and
years of their life in idle worship. And, indeed, what kind of a God
can that be whose heart is -made happy, whose name is glorified,
because his ears are filled by such vain empty words as these ?
No. We must again say that theology and the Christian’s idea of heaven
are in direct opposition to the facts that the occupation and the development
of the human mind are such as would fit mankind for such a heaven as
this. Is the occupation the same in the spirit world as it was in this world ?
For the time being it must be the same, as spirits are continually attracted j
to the old scenes of life and labour ; but directly the spirit becomes i
awakened to a conciousness of all its powers, then the spirit pursues
that occupation best suited for it. How many people there are in the
World whose occupation is exactly opposite to that which they feel the
deepest interest in; and even you say of such an one his heart is not in
his work. In the spirit life each spirit is ultimately attracted to that
sphere of action and that kind of work for which he is best fitted and
suited. Have we evidences that the spirits have been occupied during the 1
years of the past. This world in which you live is the world of results.
The spirit world is the world of causes—causes you cannot see, and at
the time cannot comprehend. A Galileo may tell the world of a law which
it has never before conceived, may endeavour to demonstrate a fact
which shall be of infinite value to mankind, not because a Galileo is
wiser than another, but Because the unthinking world has sent up the
cry for more light, and the spirit world is reflecting through the organi- j
sation of such an one newer and higher laws ; but when a Galileo does j
speak the words which the unseen spirits had impressed upon his
j mind, because it was in contradistinction to what the world had pre-
! viously conceived, no punishment could be severe enough for him.
That the world has now come to understand the great lesson the spirits
| taught through him does not lighten the burden he bore, or lessen the
pain he endured. No honour, no glory of the present day can reward
the poor old man, or mitigate the suffering which he endured when
forced to deny the truth which had been revealed unto him. A Columbus
| may tell the world of an unknown country far beyond the seas, of a
| land which he has discovered in spirit; may picture in glowing colours
j all the wealth and possibility this unknown land may hold; and be
i rewarded by scorn and contempt. He may plead as never man had
| pleaded before; and finally, to gratify his whim, as it is called, he is
allowed to pursue his thought. He, with his faithful followers, travels
i the unknown seas with its perils and dangers, finding no human being
| in whom he can trust, relying only on the fate within him. He may at
| last, when hope has almost forsaken him, see the world of which he
has dreamt so long rise in the distance before him; and when, at last,
he shall step upon the ground of this newly-discovered country, it is no
j more real to him than when, years ago, in his native land, he dreamed
j of its existence. It was not Columbus alone who discovered the new
| world: the time had come for its existence to be made known, and he
was the instrument through whom this knowledge was given. Ben¬
jamin Franklin may dare question the power of the elements; he may
| presume to demonstrate to humankind the use and possibility of which
| they have never dreamed; he may yield himself to the spirit power
| within him, and carry forward the great purposes for which his life is
inspired; but what says the Christian world to such an one ? Every
advance that has ever been made in science or art, this same Christian
world has condemned and deceived. Any man that dare be wiser than
| his fellows is said either to be mad, or to be possessed of Satan
himself. When Benjamin Franklin dare call the lightning down
to demonstrate the possible use of this great agent, the world to
a man cried out, He is trifling with the elements, and the vengeance of
God! But, regardless of what the world might say, he followed the
inspiration within him, and to-day his name is honoured and respected
even by those who condemned him most. Through this discovery he
made, city is bound to city, country to country, and nation to nation ;
and as we stand on the shores of the ocean and hear the little clicking,
clicking sound, we are told that beneath the ocean wave the cable wires
are laid, and that the new world is whispering to the old, telling the
story of its sorrows and its joys, of its victories and its defeats, of its
successes and its failures. Well can we say, as we look upon the life of
this man, They may call thee niggard, and monk-accursed, and load
thee with disgrace; thou wert born five hundred years too soon for the
comfort of thy days, but not too soon for humankind; God has a reward
in store, and the demons of our sires become the saints we adore. But
supposing this man had not the courage to endure the contumely which
the world gave—supposing he had not the power to withstand
the waves of condemnation that swept over him—the blessings
we now enjoy would have waited until another, brave enough
to stem the tide of public condemnation, had been born. For
the world only rolls on as it crushes human hearts and human
hopes. Every step that has ever been taken or made has caused both
sacrifice and pain to him who dared to take it, and the system of
theology and religion that has cursed the world is responsible for this
condition. A Raphael may make the silent canvas beam with a rich,
glowing life, may paint as man has never painted before, and leave
behind as the reward of his life types of beauty and form, which
the world gazing upon will yield its reverent admiration; and men,
journeying from the east and from the west, from the north and from
the south, will stand in awe as they gaze upon those forms which no
human life has ever seen. Those eyes which look out from the walls have
been purified through suffering, sanctified through sorrow, not of this
world, but of the higher life. And when Raphael painted these Madonnas,
which made his name a household word, he painted not from human
moulds, but the faces and forms of the unseen visitants who were ever
near and around him. Men say, as they gaze upon the wonderful
colouring, the beauty of face and expression, this is genius; and we ask,
What is genius ? The answer comes back again, Inspiration, Inspiration,
is but the power of the spirit; and Raphael was but another in the world’s
history who was so inspired by the power within him that all else was
forgotten. The question is asked—But if the spirits have done all these
things, is no credit due those who were the instruments of the
spirits ? We answer, Yes. Every credit is due them ; for they, when
upon the one side withstood public opinion, ever ready to condemn, and
on the other, the purpose of life which had become a part of themselves,
they chose the latter, for they preferred to follow the inspiration of their
lives, and be true to that inspiration, even though the world did con¬
demn. Thus you will see that the spirit world has not been idle. The
great inspiration of the past has found expression just as soon as there
was a possibility of its becoming of value and use to the world; but
many great and good lives are lost, and work left undone, because of the
barriers and obstacles that are placed in the path of reformers. For
when a man or woman with a new truth, no matter how much value it
may have to the world, dare give it expression, he is met with “ the
world is not yet ready for it.” When was the world ever ready for any¬
thing ? and your reformers are but marking out the path over which
future generations must pass. The spirits work with those who are
most in harmony with them ; but every person is surrounded by two
groups of spirits—one bad and the other good. Those who are undeve¬
loped will learn of you from the life you lead—those who are good and
true will endeavour to teach you how to lead a better life; and you
are free to yield to whichever influence you please. The spirits work
with mortals most when they are asleep, and dreamland becomes the
real land; or when you are lost in thought; or, again, when under
great mental suffering you become positive to that, but negative to
everything else, and through this condition oftentimes the greatest
March 21, 1879.
137
THE SPIRITUALIST.
work is done. What are the occupations of the spirits in the transition
sphere? Every country ever discovered, every invention ever made,
every step ever taken in science, every picture ever painted, every
statue ever carved, every song ever sung, first had its existence in the
spirit world, and then, through the organisation of mortals, been trans¬
mitted to this. Not in idleness, then, not in the singing of psalms, do
those whose lives have been great and true exist; but in the rest
which comes through labour, in the being true to the great impulse
that has moved their lives in lifting the burdens of the oppressed, in
giving freedom to the slave, in giving peace to the sorrowing, and in
giving hope to all the world do these immortal ones pass the years of
eternity. The world may not understand for a time, but as it rolls on,
that which it thought darkness it finds light, and error it finds to be
truth. Aye, in the words of the poet we say:—
To-day abhorred, to-morrow adored,
So, round and round we run,
And ever the truth comes uppermost,
And ever is justice done.
At the close of the lecture some remarkable tests were given, nine
in number, and were responded to by those in the audience for whom
they were given.
THE CLAIRVOYANT POWER.
Mr. Andrew Jackson Davis was found by a reporter for the Sun at his
pleasant semi-rural residence in Orange, N. J. In reply to a question as to
his opinion of the case of Miss Fancher, of Brooklyn, Mr. Davis said:—
“ Dr. Buchanan came nearer, I think, to a solution of the matter
than anybody else has. I have not yet seen Miss Fancher, but expect
to do so very soon, and after that interview shall be able to talk more
definitely. But I know enough about the principles involved not only
to deem the condition claimed for her possible, but even probable.”
“ Have you had any similar experiences upon which to base your
belief? ”
“ I have had A great deal of experience of my own, and some obser¬
vation of cases analogous to hers. The first thing that excites the
scepticism of the public is the fact that she is supposed to Hve almost
without food. Well, now, I have been accustomed to enter the clair¬
voyant state for thirty-two years, and that state can be reached and
maintained only by adopting what disease has forced her into, and that
is something that physicians are generally not acquainted with. What
we call the spiritual state has to be reached by a complete subordination
of the physical organism—not by its sacrifice, but by making, as it
were, a sort of stepping-stone. Well, the appetites are the impediments,
the stumblingblocks, on the way to that summit which must be reached,
and they have to be got out of the way. I think it would be well, for
the sake of the pious sceptics, to call attention to the case of Daniel, the
prophet, which is a good illustration. They read in their pulpits from
the book which relates his experience, and profess to believe in it. He
said he fasted three full weeks, took no meat, no wine, no pleasant
bread, and, in fact, it was very nearly three weeks of voluntary starvation,
according to his own account, and at the end of that time he records,
‘ I, Daniel, had a vision,’ &c. His falling into a Trance frightened the
men about him: a great quaking fell upon them, and they were afraid
and fled; but he ‘had a vision.’ He saw and heard spiritual persons
and things. Now, I undertake to say that Daniel could never have
had any such experience as that unless he had abstained from food.
I had to adopt a system of fasting for three months before I could begin
my clairvoyant investigations, and during the progress of those investi¬
gations I have had to continue the system, though not to such an
extreme degree.”
“ But do not professed medical experts claim that such visions as are
superinduced by fasting to that extreme degree are nothing more than
delusions of the mind, born of weakness of the body ? ”
“ They do ; but I will simply say of my own case, that for the first
two years of my experience I was continually subjected to tests of the
accuracy of my clairvoyant sight. That was in the city of Pough¬
keepsie. My title at that time was ‘ The Poughkeepsie Seer.’ The
proofs afforded by those tests were of the most palpable and indubitable
character, such as reading the title of a book placed among half a dozen
others upon my forehead; telling the exact time marked upon the dial
of a watch concealed in a person’s pocket; telling what was in an
adjoining room, or was being done there, and even what was in
rooms on the opposite side of the city—rooms fitted and furnished like
no others in the world, expressly to set conjecture at defiance and
expose my deception, if I was guilty of any. No doubt was left of the
absolute certainty of my possessing the power of seeing accurately in
that clairvoyant state what could not otherwise have been known to me.
There are several citizens of Poughkeepsie who would remember those
experiments. Now, my explanation Dr. Buchanan has touched upon
scientifically ? but the physicians are, I think, really in the dark, viz.,
the psychometric power in the human mind, of which he, I believe, has
the honour of being the discoverer. He has elaborated a system of
anthropology, with several branches; but I know of nothing in which
he is so perfectly original as in his discovery and demonstration of that
power, which is the ability to read the characters, views, and thoughts
of persons by mere contact with their writing.”
“ Suppose you give me plainly your views of Miss Fancher’s case.”
“ I can explain my own case, and that will explain Miss Fancher’s.
This condition, induced by fasting or disease, may lead to fancies,
vagaries, hallucinations, if it is not properly trained and directed. Dr.
Hammond is correct enough when he confines his diagnosis of a disease
to what I should call abnormal workings of that state ; but if he should
see a well-trained case of clairvoyance or clairaudience—that is, the
power of hearing without the use of the physical ears—he would dis¬
cover it was a legitimate action of the mind in that state. In physiology
the cellular tissues are the natural generators, protectors, and feeders of
all the membranes of the system and all the vital organs. There are
thousands, yes, hundreds of thousands, of these life-giving cells near the
surface and through the system, and there are hundreds, if not thousands,
of feet of nerves. These nerves are co-operators with the tissues as pro¬
tectors and feeders of the entire membraneous and vital systems. Now
I should call Miss Fancher’s case, judging from my own, one of nerve
and cellular tissue feeding, which makes the use of food by mastication
almost entirely unnecessary.”
“ But is not food required to keep up the nerves and tissues of which
you speak ?”
“ Those tissues and nerves are the products of elements and essences
that are totally unknown to chemists. The moment we come to that
boundary we glide over into the spiritual. A cell cannot be organised
without a potency that is exactly qualified for such a labour, and the
nerve, in the same way, is a product of what is to chemists an unknown
science, which our folks call the spiritual principle. Now that is what
requires to be fed, not the tissue and the nerve, but those essences or
principles which develope or evolve nerves and tissues, and those
essences or principles can be received in various ways. They may be
inhaled and taken with pure water, or milk, in very small quantities, or
they can be absorbed through the entire surface of the skin. And that
is the case of a person in that high state of impressibility, which, from
all accounts, seems to characterise Miss Fancher. Now, a mesmerist
as I know—for I have been for several years magnetised twice a day—
a mesmerist supplies that creative principle. A mesmerist fed by my
vital forces, just as Miss Fancher is fed by breathing, and through the
nervous system and through the skin. The mesmerist’s force, by a pro¬
cess of assimilation, entered into my vital powers, and kept the heart
beating and kept up a certain amount of bodily heat, so that my mind
was entirely emancipated from the necessity of carrying out those pro¬
cesses in the body in which we are all constantly engaged, under
ordinary conditions. In fact, the reason why many of us cannot
command our powers is because we are too much anchored to earth,
or freighted, as it were, by those vital powers which consume our mental
energies. As soon as the mind is emancipated from the necessity of
keeping the bodily system from death, why, its inner sense are opened
and strengthened, just as they are a few moments before death, in almost
everybody’s case. Miss Fancher is on the border land of the other
world very many times, and whenever she is exactly there, she can hear
sounds that are utterly inaudible to common ears, and can see sights
that no human eye can discern. As she settles back down into her cir¬
culation, her muscles, and nerves, she drops out of what we call the
lucid state, and becomes again a sick patient, and probably has some
of her disagreeable symptoms, to alleviate which physicians have to be
called in. Then the hysteria comes in. Now, I am telling all this, you
understand, from the principles I am acquainted with by practice in my
own case, and when I see her, I may find some other details which may
enlarge my knowledge of her case.”
“ Now, about the possible results, the, ends to be attained by this
clairvoyant and clairaudient condition. People have a curiosity to know
why, if it exists as is claimed, it cannot be turned to some practical
account. What have you to say on that subject?”
“ There is something very strange about this emancipation of the
mental from the physical. You become impersonal. Your appetites
and passions are all at rest. That removes selfishness utterly from the
mind as a motive of action. If the self-interest of the mind could be
retained, a clairvoyant might devote himself to all sorts of detective work,
the finding of lost persons and property, &c. But when the high state of
lucidity is attained, the person is really the resident of another life, and
another world, and takes large and unselfish interest in humanity and
truth, and in the furtherance of noble principles; Petty, sordid
interests are not simply subordinated ; they seem no longer to exist I
do not know how it could be possible for a person in that state to
devote himself to a selfish object. I think the condition is designed for
and really adapted to the study of the truth of ideas, the furtherance of
science, the development of philosophy, the spiritual education of the
world, and is not adapted to common uses, those which many persons
would call ‘ practical.’ That has been my experience with it. I know
that when I was young I used to be visited by numbers of people who
would ask me to look to see where money was supposed to be buried and
other like service, and would promise me handsome rewards if I could
serve them successfully. Well, I was a boy then, and could see no
reason why I could not do so, since I achieved daily things quite as
difficult, and the rewards offered tempted me, for selfishness was still in
my heart to some degree, in my ordinary self. But I found that when
I got into that inner life I could not convey there any such motives. All
knowledge of such purposes would fade away from me. Although I
tried to carry them with me, when I entered that inner life there was
entire annihilation of them. I was another being; my powers were
emancipated. The boy, with his selfish purposes, was gone, and in his
stead was a man’s mind, with the philosopher’s maturity of thought and
purity of purpose. I gave tests to prove to persons the existence of the
power I possessed, almost every day during two years at least,
and was thoroughly successful when my object was simply the demon¬
stration of the truth; but when the element of selfishness entered in, it
prevented the accomplishment of anything.”
“You spoke of training this faculty?”
“Yes; it is a science still in process of development. There are
now, however, a number of societies in Europe cultivating these extra¬
ordinary powers of the mind, and Dr. Buchanan has organised here a
class of earnest inquirers after the truth in this direction. From their
i researches I have much hope. The German societies, notably in
! Leipzic and Breslau, promise to effect a great deal. Germans are
| thorough. They are very different from Americans as a people, in that
11 they patiently seek the truth for the truth’s sake alone, whereas our
) I Americans wish to make everything immediately practical, subservient
’I to some selfish end.”:—AF.:F. Sun.
i
138
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 21, 1879.
STOLEN PROPEKTY EECOVEEED BY THE USE OF |
PSYCHIC POWEES. j
The British law, in its wisdom, orders the punishment of j
people who are the means of recovering lost or stolen pro- |
perty by the exercise of the powers of the spirit. The j j
following is an extract from a note in chap. xxvi. of j
Froude’s History of England, Yol. V.:— |
“ From Lansdowne MSS., British Museum, William I
Wycherly saieth that1 about ten years past he used a rule |
called Gircula Salamonia at a place called Pembersham, in j
Sussex, to call up “ Bar of whom he taketh as Oriental or |
sep ten trial spirit, where was also one Robert Bayley, the I
scryer (query il descrier”) of the crystal stone, Sir John |
Anderson, the magister operator, Sir John Hychely, and j
Thomas Gosling, in the which practice they had swords, |
rings, and holy water, when they were frustrated, for Baro \
did not appear, npr other vision of spirit; but there was a |
terrible wind and tempest all the time of the circulation, j
And since that time he used no consecrate circule, but hath j
used the crystal and invocate. The Sprat called “ Scarletf |
which he did divers times into the crystal to have knowledge j
of things stolen, which Sprat hath given him knowledge of j
an hundred times, and thereby men have been restored to |
their goods. And this practice by the crystal he hath, at |
the command of my Lord Protector (Somerset), executed in !
the presence of Mr. Thynne, Mr. Whalley, Mr. McGeprge j
Blaye, Mr. Chaloner, and Mr. Weldon; and by this means j
my Lord Protector’s plate was found where Deponent told |
his Grace it was hid. He says he can invocate the Sprat j
into the crystal glass as soon as any one, but he cannot bind |
the Sprat as soon from telling lies !’ ” j
SPIEITUALISM IN AUSTEALIA. !
THE MATERIALISATION OF SPIRITS. j >
The last mail from Australia brings the news that Dr. j
Slade is at 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne, and The j
Harbinger of Light, of January 21st, gives the following j
account of a materialisation seance, during which, as usual, j
Dr. Slade was seated in full view of the rest of the |
observers :— j
On Sunday evening, 1st December, Dr. Slade attended a j (
meeting of the Psychological Association by invitation of the j
members. The sitting was for the express purpose of pro- j |
ducing materialisations. The members ranged themselves j |
round a table in their usual seats, whilst Dr. Slade took his I
seat at a small chess table, in front of a green holland blind, j
through the centre of which a small opening was made of j
about twelve inches in breadth, by about eighteen inches in j
depth. After we had thus taken our seats, the sitting opened |
in the usual manner. Previous to sitting our spiritual I
friends answered to their names by giving the knocks on the j
table or floor peculiar to each of them. One of our friends j
gives a very heavy, muffled knock on the floor, which causes j
it to vibrate a good deal. It seemed to startle Dr. Slade a |
good deal by what he termed “ its solemn unearthly j
character.” Immediately after this he asked Owassoo if the j
preparations were nearly completed, who replied by giving I
three knocks on the book he held in his hand. Our gifted !
medium then described the spirit of a female standing I
between the chairman and Mrs. L. We were asked to sing a j
little. Whilst doing so, a female spirit materialised and showed j
herself at the opening in the blind. She was, however, but j
dimly visible; a veil seemed as if drawn over her face. She j
was asked if she would come again a little plainer. She I
nodded an affirmative. The gas was now turned on again a !
little brighter. We sang again, and whilst doing so she j
appeared to those sitting close to her bright and clear. Mrs. !
L., who had a materialisation sitting with the doctor j
on Friday, looked surprised, expecting to see the same face I
again. Gazing intently for a moment, she exclaimed, “ Why, j
it is Maggie.” She smiled and bowed; then turned to her |
sister, Mrs. L., and smiled to her. Mrs. L. said, “It j
is my own dear sister,” and fell back' in her chair fainting ]
with the sudden surprise. She quickly recovered, but the |
angelic face with its smile of love was gone. Owassoo now |
informed us that the materialisation sitting was over. Dr. j.j
Slade, under control, gave an instructive address upon the
best means of procuring this form of manifestation, after
which, according to the request of his guides, he left us to
ourselves.
The spirit who appeared was Mrs. B , who passed
away at Oastlemaine about ten years ago. She was very
like Mrs. L. The similarity of features was marked by
those who were sitting near to the materialised form.
R. Lorimer,
Secretary to the Psychological Association, Ballarat.
December 17th, 1878.
NOT DEAD, BUT RISEN.
The first number of the Penn Yan Mystery (N.Y.) is
published by Leon and Harriet Lewis, both persons of con¬
siderable literary note. Mr. Lewis states that his wife,
Harriet, died last May. He says:—
As in all the work of the future I am substantially carrying
out the thoughts and ideas and plans of our past, it is
eminently proper—it is even inevitable—that the association
of our names in everything should remain unchanged. My
wife remains the soul of all I am, and all I shall ever
accomplish, and I know it is right to preserve all existing
ties and relations unbroken. Shall I go a step further?
Shall I say to you, reader, that death is only a change of
states and not of relations ? That those we call “ dead ”
are the only true living ? That the soul goes on in its new
life from the point where it leaves this present existence ?
Shall I suggest to you that all the wonderful material con¬
quests and discoveries of the past few years are only a dull
suggestion of those higher spiritual conquests and discoveries
which are now bringing the worlds nearer together? Would
the avowal seem strange to you that my wife is as much my
wife to-day as before the great shadow descended upon us ?
Would it revolt you to be told that she is still near me?
That the head of my golden-haired darling rests nightly on
my bosom ? That we are still toiling together ? That the
dear voice still commands and instructs me ? That her new
life and light flows over every page of this publication?
That her great heart and brain are as active as ever for the
good of the race ?
WATERS IN THE DESERT.
BT ELLA DIETZ.
Longtime I wandered in a barren land,
My stumbling feet beset by unknown ways,
The scorching sun blinding my weary gaze—
A brazen sky above a waste of sand—
No help on any side. On either hand
No shelter from the torturing, burning rays.
*“ Oh, God I” I cried, “ end now my nights and days;
Smite me with death; yea, strike me where I stand J”
And Thou didst smite, as Moses smote the rock,
Not unto death; for forth there gushing flowed
A stream of life, and suddenly there glowed
Bright roses where had been an earthquake’s shock,
And grasses green appeared, and cattle lowed,
And by the stream a Shepherd fed his flock.
AN INTERESTING EXPERIMENT.
It has long been known that the human gaze has a
weakening effect on certain of the physical manifestations of
Spiritualism; also that light has a weakening influence.
Mr. Reimers, of Mornington-road, London, informs us that
last Friday, at Mr. Williams’s stance, he and several other
sitters turned up the gas to full height, and with hand¬
kerchiefs blindfolded themselves and the medium, then sat
round a table with their hands interlinked. Spirit voices at
once began ; his hat, from outside the circle, was placed on
his head, and chairs were heard moving. Permission was
given him to remove the bandage from his eyes; he then saw
the others still blindfolded, and a chair over Mr. Williams’s
head.
In the earlier experiments by Mr. Crookes with Mr. Home,
some of the manifestations had to be tested under a table.
Eyesight would have weakened them on the top of it.
March 21, 1879.
THE spiritualist.
139
TWO EXPERIENCES OF THE PROCESS OF DEATH. |
BY THE HON. J. L. O’SULLIVAN, FORMERLY AMERICAN MINISTER AT THE COURT i j
OF PORTUGAL. j j
We are all interested in this subject—young and old, and |
especially we old folk. I once happened to be present when j
two persons who had just passed through this experience— j
which (with taxes) is the only thing certain to all of us— j
told how it had passed with them. It is a reminiscence of n
some ten or twelve years back, but it seems to me worth pre- j
serving and recording—as all the material facts of Spiritualism I
are—while the other witnesses are still living who can con- {
firm my statement. I
It occurred at the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, j
There were present, besides herself, Mrs. Honywood (I do j
not feel bound to withhold the names of two such well- |j
known and nobly outspoken Spiritualists), Lady , Mrs. ||
H , her son, a young gentleman of about nineteen; the I
medium, Mrs. Mary Marshall; and myself. All are still
living in the flesh. None will impugn the accuracy of my
report. |1
We had agreed upon a course of six stances with Mary |!
Marshall, rapping medium, to be held on a stated evening
each week. The method was that, as we sat round a table,
each in succession would communicate with her or his j
friendly or kindred spirits, not evoked by us, though per¬
haps invoked by love, desire, and hope. The one always j
sure to announce herself to me was my mother. To Mrs.
H the unfailing one was her father.
One evening, after we had passed through our customary j
experiences in this way, which we all used to find respectively j
very satisfactory, for Mary Marshall was an excellent medium, j
Mrs. H begged us, just as we were about breaking up, !
to sit a little longer. She wished to try an experiment, j
She had lost a very dear friend within the twenty-four hours,
and wished to see if she could communicate with him. She
knew also of a singular death which had occurred within, I j
think, thirty-six hours, and would like to try the experiment
of communication with that spirit also. ,
We re-formed the circle. Again her father responded to I
her. She asked him if he could bring there the spirit of their I
dear old friend who had just left this life. 44 Tes.” And
then there was that peculiar sound of a spirit going away, |
which all must remember who ever had much experience
with Mary Marshall; a sort of rapid galloping sound on the
ceiling, gradually dying away at one corner overhead. A
minute, or two, or three, of silence. Then the rappings on
the table announcing return. 4< Is that you, dear father ?”
44 Yes.” 44 Have you brought him with you?” 44 Yes” !
44 And can he communicate with you ?” 44 Yes” Then
ensued an affectionate dialogue between Mrs. H and the j
spirit thus brought. He gave his name, 44 Thomas.” Then j
his surname, 44 Kenna.” 44 Yes,” she said, 44 Sir Thomas I
Kenna.” Then his age eighty odd; I believe eighty-four, j
And the name (Albemarle), and the number (34, or there- j
abouts) of the street of his residence in which he had passed j
away. Mrs. H told him how happy she was thus to be
able to communicate with him still. Amongst other things |
she said, 44 We have all had many proofs, dear Sir Thomas, j
of your friendship and affection, but I beg you to mention
the last act of kindness from you to one of my family.”
44 Put your son's name down for Arthur's Clubf was the j
reply. She told us that this was correct, though some time
afterwards she told me how she had since learned that it was
not literally the fact; he had promised and intended to do
so, but his last illness had prevented the consummation of j
the purpose. But the thought and intention of kindness
were all the same, and the answer was in spirit the truth. She j
asked him where he was now? 44 Still in Albemarle-street.”
How long would he remain there? “About three or four j
days.” When she had got through what I may call general
aftectionate talk with her aged friend, she said (and to tell
this is my reason for relating the case): 44 Well, now, dear I
Sir Thomas, you have passed through that experience which !
sooner or later awaits us all, that of what we call Death.
Tell me something about it. Did you find it a painful |
process ?” 44 Not at all j it was like making up out of a sleep'' \
44 And how did you know that you had passed through it;
that you were what we call dead?” Observe his reply : 44 / j
found myself outside of my body, and looking upon it as it lay j
| there before me?' 44 How did you feel when you found your-
| self separated from your body ?” 441 turned from it with
disgust.” 441 suppose you woke up in the next life with a
rejuvenated body, and so turned from the old worn-out one ?”
44 Yes.” Note, I repeat these replies in connection with
what is about to follow.
The precise date of this seance can be ascertained from the
obituary columns of the Times. It was two or three days
before the appearance there of the death of Major-General Sir
Thomas Kenna, of the age, and of the exact address given us
by the spirit, though Mrs. H had not given the slightest
i indication about him.
When she had got through with her communication with
I him, though she had seemed loathe to bring it to a close,
I she asked her father (still present) whether he could also
bring to her the other spirit, just departed, whom she had
I in her thoughts. 44 Yesand again the same occurred as
before, and the new spirit announced himself as present.
J As before, Mrs. H gave no inkling of anything about
I him. Only, she had said at the outset that he had died in a
very singular way. He gave correctly his name, age, &c.,
! in response to her questions. He was a mere youth, twenty-
one years of age or thereabout. Unlike the former spirit,
who had answered to the request of his name, first, by his
S Christian name, this one gave first his surname; and,
curiously enough, it was, if I remember right (44 Death,”
which is a family name in England (witness a watchmaker’s
sign in Cheapside). Mrs. H thereupon remarked : 44 That
is curious; he answers as he would have answered to the
roll-call in his company by his surname ; he was a private
! in a cavalry regiment at Windsor, in which my son is an
officer. My son has just arrived this afternoon from Windsor,
and told me the singular mode of death of this young man.”
She then went on to say to him : 4 41 beg you to tell, for the
! satisfaction of my friends here, the cause of your death.”
44 A bone in my throat f was the answer. I exclaimed: 44 Oh !
! he swallowed a fishbone.” “No.” by an immediate very
emphatic single rap under the table. 44 Well, tell us what
J it was,” said Mrs. H . “ A bone of beef.” This was a
| surprising answer; but Mrs. H told us that this was
| indeed very curious; and she proceeded to explain. A
| common trooper, receiving rations sometimes roughly cut or
cloven, he had swallowed a thin needle-like slitter of bone
I in his allotted portion. He had gulped it down, but it had
I cut its way, like a needle, through his gullet. A few days
I afterwards he had felt a little uneasiness, had gone into
hospital; but became better, and nothing was perceived to
be the matter with him, when at last he was taken with
I convulsions, and such vomitings of blood that his bed was
; inundated with it, and he died in those convulsions.
| Autopsy discovered the sharp slitter or needle of bone stick¬
ing a short distance in his heart; so do needles that have
I been swallowed work their way through the human body.
| Such was the report her son had brought up to her about
this extraordinary case, which had prompted her to try this
| experiment of communication with the very recently de-
! parted spirit, well known to her son, his officer.
In the Timesf a few days later, I read a short notice of the
| coroner’s inquest, at Windsor, on this singular death. Also,
at Mrs. H ’s I met, at an evening party, the regimental
surgeon who had made the autopsy, and who showed me the
slitter of bone (much smaller than the bare bodkin, which
we knew to be sufficient for a quietus'). He carried it in his
I pocket-book as a curiosity to show to his professional
brethren; and I understood from him that he was about to
| publish the case in the Lancet, or some other professional
! journal, where, no doubt, it may be found. Of course, we
| were all impressed with this remarkable case. Mrs. H 
then turned to the spirit, who had remained there while she
related these particulars, and put to him the same inquiries
she had before put to her old friend, Sir Thomas Kenna.
What had been his experience of what we call death ; was it
! painful ? 44 Extremely so,” was the reply, the opposite of
what had been said before. But this was a death of con¬
vulsions and physical agony on the part of a youth, very
different from the gentle separation of the slender cord which
held to the worn-out and used-up flesh the spirit, ready and
willing to depart, of the cultured and Christian octo¬
genarian. 44 Well, how did you know that you were what we
140
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 21,1879.
call deadV' Here came identically the same answer as j
before : was out of my body, and I saw it there.” Again |||
the question pressed'on him. “ Well, how did you feel when j;'
you were out of your body, and saw it ? ” <{ J wanted to get i; j;
back into ^ ” (very different from the former octogenarian j y
answer). u But why, when you were out of your body, and
knew you were dead, did you want to get back into it 2 ”
Then came a curious reply, characteristic of the young, :
uncultured, common trooper, but it was literally this : u I j
thought I should be taken to the place the parsons (sic) call \
hell” (a moment’s pause), “ but I soon found that God is a !
God of mercy and not of vengeance” j
I am making trustworthy statements; this is just how this
striking experience passed; and I am sure the highly-
respectable fellow-witnesses of it to whom I have referred,
will bear me out in the accuracy of this narration of it.
Moreover, I refer any incredulous reader to the Times, and j
the medical journals of the date, easily accessible* (The
Court Guide must contain the exact address, where I pre- j
sume the exact date can be ascertained; probably also in a j
Peerage and Baronetage, unless his title was only that of a j!
knight). This took place several days before the obituary j
mention in the Times, or the report of the coroner’s inquest. j
And Mrs. H had not breathed a syllable in regard to j
either case, before the just-departed spirits told their own
stories to our little circle of six, all of whom are living to j
attest.
It is apropos to mention here that once, some time ago, when
that queer but affectionate spirit whom we call u the little
Indian,” or Keebosh,” or (l Franky ” (and whom we have
often both seen and felt, as well as heard), was talking to us j
at a dark seance with his queer little voice, I questioned him j
about his experience of death, or passage out of the earth-life j
into his present one. I believe there is reason to think that I
the poor little dwarf’s presence was unfairly got rid of, as a j
burthen and nuisance to his people. I had heard, from j j
some of those friends who had been familiar with him before j j
I came into this circle (both of those in the flesh, and those j
out of the flesh), that he had been thrown or pushed from a |
steep rock or cliff. His reply to my question was curious in j
its correspondence with what I had heard, as above related, j
from the just-departed spirits of an octogenarian baronet |
major-general and a common soldier lad in a cavalry regiment j
at Windsor. He said, “ A fter the big fall I don't remember, j
but when I woke up there was two Frankies there. Yes (and he i
gave his queer little laugh), there was me and another one who j
didn't stir. By-and-by I went off somewhere, and I never saw !
the other Franky again.” It seems that his experience was j
really identical with that of the other two, only this ignorant j |
little boy of the woods did not know that he was dead, and j
looking upon the shell of body he had quitted only, he saw i j
another Franky who didn't stir, and he thought it very queer; |
but, after wandering off (probably conducted away), he never j
saw the other one again. He has told us that he has since j
found his mother again. He was made very jubilant by my I
consenting to be his “ papa ” by adopting him, and so he J
always called me on the rare occasions when he spoke to j
us. We were promised a mould of him.* j
The above leads me to think that we shall all, or most of I
us, know that we have passed through that gate of death, by j
the fact of thus finding ourselves outside of our old bodies j
and seeing them there before us. The process will probably |
be painless or painful according to age, mode of death, and |
ripeness for it, and other circumstances. I feel pretty sure j
that when my time comes I shall then remember this seance, |
and some of my readers may recall it at secondhand. Here I
* If it were worth while I could tell much of his caresses and kisses, &c., to me; of his ) j
■blubbering grief when he would see me suffering in mind or body ; of his distress when he ( ;
fancied that I had '■'got tired" of him; of his once, when I was in some pecuniary anxiety, ( j
asking) me whether he should go and “ steal a. hundred thousand dollars for meand ( j
of his having added, after my rebuke of this audacious offer, that he had some wampum ( j
(Indian money) of his own, and knew where it was, and thought I could get two dollars ! ( i
for it. I am sorry I did not accept the latter offer, to see whether he could have made me ! ( 1
an apport of wampum! I don’t believe that better spirits would have allowed him to j.( !
bring the offered apport out of the vaults of the Bank of France, as they often do bring ; i j
fresh and dew-covered flowers and fruits out of neighbouring gardens. But he told us of I ( !
a certain medium to whom money had been sometimes brought by spirits. It is to be hoped i / I
that it was only lost money that they thus brought, perhaps from the bottom of the sea. He ! / j
told us his name, but added that we must not mention it. Madame Blavatsky and Colonel j / |
Olcott hold the spirits who come at materialisation seances to be “ elementaries.” Perhaps j ( I
some may be, though I am very sure that all are not such. Perhaps Franky may be, but I j / !
do not think so. The “ elementaries ” are said to have no affection nor conscience. The j ) j
hundred thousand dollars proposal was not very moral, and therefore does look rather j ) j
“elementary,” but I think it proceeded simply from ignorance and Indian predatory j ) j
ways. He understood my little lecture or explanation to him on the subject, and promised !)j
he would never think such a thought again. [) j
were two persons (besides the little Indian boy), at the
opposite extremes of age, of social position, and of educational
and religious culture ; compare their reports of their respec¬
tive experience. It is some comfort to know that the care¬
less, unlettered, probably half-animal soldier youth, in spite
of the terror he at first felt through the influence of what he
called “ the parsons,” yet “ soon found that God is a God
of mercy and not of vengeance.” But their further experience,
beyond those first hours, doubtless depended, as will ours, on
what their past, thus far, had made, by preparing it.
“0 DEATH, WHERE IS THY STING?”
BY EDITH SAVILLE.
I sat by the gloom of a waning fire,
And thought of the dear ones gone;
Of the fond and treasured loves of my youth
Who had left me cold and alone 1
I remembered the time when I wandered abroad
Amid mountains, rivers, and streams,
When my love was with me, my spring-tide love,
Whose memory lives in my dreams.
I thought of the time when the summer flings
Its odours of choicest flowers
To the subtle air, and the soft breeze wings
Their perfumes to fairy bowers.
And memory flew to that sunny home,
Bright as the heavens above,
Where the verdant bloom of my heart was all
Aglow with my summer love!
Then my spirit recalled that autumn time
When the blossoms that fell at my feet
Lay withering, like that cherished heart
I had fondly loved to greet!
I thought of the time when a fair-haired girl
Looked up to my face and smiled;
And I said, in my heart of hearts, “ There is none
So lovely as thee, my child! ”
My soul was agloom! and in sadness I said
The love of my spring-tide has perished,
And the summer blossom, that, too, is dead,
Which my heart had so dearly cherished.
And the autumn time, with its waning sun,
Brings only despair and dread;
For memory drear brings back the time
When my fair-haired girl lay dead!
I remembered those eyes of violet hue,
And the long, dark lashes there;
The loving kiss and the gentle voice
Of that dear one, so passing fair!
And of all the loves that my spirit yearned
And longed to embrace, as of yore,
Was the soul of my soul, that gentle girl
Who had left me for evermore!
And my lone heart said, “ Is life a sham?
Is my spirit condemned to roam
For ever, unloving and unloved.
Or ** there a spirit home?”
Then I listened, and heard a voice of old;
And in strains so sweet, so dear,
It whispered me, “ Darling, I am not dead,
I am with you, even here.”
“ 0, mother mine, death is not known
By us, in these lovely bowers.
I am waiting for thee amid verdant groves
Of bright gems and rarest flowers.
“ Then hasten thee, darling, hasten to me,
The refrain of my soul has flown
Aloft to the angels, who speed their wings
To the mighty Spirit’s throne.
“ They will bear thee up from the troubled earth
To the summer-land above.
To the spirit-home, where is waiting for thee
Thy other soul, thy Love! ”
THE SPIRITUALIST.
141
March 21, 1879.
(Eorreapottonue.
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametricalbj |
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot ;
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which j
are not anonymous.']  ;—
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sm,—Allow me through the agency of your paper to add my testi¬
mony to the valuable character of Mr. Fletcher’s mediumship. I have
attended nearly all the lectures at Cavendish Rooms, and have been
greatly impressed by the forcible and easily understood language. At
the close of a most interesting discourse on Sunday last, the 16th inst., !
Mr. Fletcher gave several tests to the audience. I have been told that
a female spirit was always watching over me, and as I had a most
earnest desire to test the truth of this assertion, I asked mentally that
if she were near me she would give me a message. Almost immediately |
Mr. Fletcher stated that he could see a young lady before him, and he j
accurately described my friend, giving her Christian and surname, her |
pet name, where she lived, the name of her brother, and mentioned a I
dog of which she was very fond. She then gave a message alluding to j
incidents no one knew but myself, and to a present of books I sent her
from England. In earth-life she lived in New Zealand.
Another test was given, but as my sister acknowledged it, I did not i
think it necessary to delay proceedings by stating that the names men¬
tioned were also known to me.
In conclusion, I may add that I had never spoken to Mr. Fletcher,
nor had I any knowledge of him except through spiritual literature.
I regret extremely that I have not seen any verbatim report of his
lectures. E. Elgie-Corner, j
Dalston, March 17th, 1879.
MADAME BLAVATSKY.
Sir,—If my memory has not altogether evaporated under the com- |
bined influences of this blazing Indian sun, and the frequent miscon- j
structions of your correspondents, there occurred, in March, 1878, an |
epistolary skirmish between one who prudently conceals his face
behind the two masks of “Scrutator ” and “ M.A. Cantab,” and your
humble servant. He again attacks me in the character of my London
Nemesis. Again he lets fly a Parthian shaft from behind the fence
of one of his pseudonyms. Again he has found a mare’s nest in my
garden—a chronological, instead of a metaphysical, one this time. He
is exercised about my age, as though the value of my statements would
be in the least affected by either rejuvenating me to infancy, or ageing
me into a double centenarian.
He has read in the Revue Spirite for October last a sentence in which,
discussing this very point, I say that I have not passed thirty years in
India, and that “ C’est justement man age—quoique fort respectable tel
qu'il est—qui s'oppose violemment d cette chronologic f &c. I reproduce
the sentence exactly as it appears, with the sole exception of restoring
the period after “ Vlnde ” in place of the comma, which is simply a
typographical mistake. The capital C which immediately follows
would have conveyed to any one except a “ Scrutator ” my exact |
meaning, viz., that my age itself, however respectable, is opposed to the
idea that I had passed thirty years in India.
I do hope that my ever-masked assailant will devote some leisure j
to the study of French as well as of punctuation before he attacks !
again. H. P. Blavatsky.
Bombay, February, 1879. ■ ■ -
PHENOMENAL SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—Much has been said against phenomenal Spiritualism. Is it j
entirely just? It is our proof. We have seen that the intellect of man,
however highly cultivated, is incapable of evolving the idea of soul or
spirit separate from the material body. On the contrary, the exclusive |
cultivation of the intellectual faculties leads to materialism : read j
Tyndall on “ Virchow and Evolution,” Nineteenth Century, November, i
1878. Where would the spiritual movement be without phenomena ? |
I have no expectation that we can convert the scientific materialist; j
his spiritual faculties are rudimentary. Pass him by. But there are
thousands who are prepared to receive the truth, who go through the |
dry formulas of the Church from habit rather than conviction— |
thousands who have lost faith in its teachings, its man-made God, its i
heaven and hell, its vicarious atonement, and death-bed repentances, i
A religion is a necessity to man. Without it he deteriorates into the
brute. The simpler that religion, and the fewer dogmas it has the i
better. Selfishness and expediency have been the load under which i
the world has laboured. The maxim, “ Do unto others as you would i
they should do unto you,” must be the rule of action practised as well !
as theoretically acknowledged, and that, too, by nation to nation, irre¬
spective of creed or colour, and by man to man. I believe that th$ dif¬
fusion of true spiritual knowledge will ultimately lead to this result, j
Whether the truth lies within the reincarnation, progressive, or any j
other doctrine that has been propounded by Spiritualists, does not affect
the fundamental truths. Spiritualism is yet too young to expect to
fathom these mysteries; it can only be by a vast accumulation of facts j
and the combined development of the spiritual and intellectual faculties
that we can hope for an approximate solution of such problems.
Spiritualism has a great work before it, and it must not stop till 11
these questions are settled, if ever' they Will be in earth-life. That
work is the regeneration of the masses from the slough of sensualism, i1
into which generations of poverty and ignorance have plunged them; | (
they must have a religion which appeals to the sentiment of hope as |1
well as to reason. What comfort to the toiling labourer and his over- i \
taxed wife would the doctrine of the materialist be, that nature works | \
by averages, and that mankind is progressing in knowledge and civilisa- |1
tion ? What comfort to the half-starved needlewoman, toiling in the j J
cellar or garret, that this life is all there is for her, and that she must j |
make the best of it ? I say that with such a belief suicide would be i |
| commendable. No. We have to show that this life is but a school for
the spirit, and that a future awaits them. We must first show them
that our knowledge is built on a sure foundation ; that we draw not on
the past, but have the proof at hand that those who have gone before us
are neither in heaven nor hell, but that they are in a world that is around
us, the spirit-world, and that the condition of the spirit in that world is
just what earth-life has made it. All this, I believe, is capable of proof
to those willing patiently to investigate. But the first step is to bring
conviction of the actual reality of the spirit world, and this can only be
| done by means of physical phenomena which appeal to the senses.
| There are those who can never go beyond the A B C of Spiritualism,
j but they are few. The day is past for Spiritualism to be of an esoteric
i character. It will spread in spite of all discouragement, and it is the
| duty of those possessing knowledge and experience to try to give it a
| high moral, or, if you will, a religious tone. W. C. P.
j London, March 17th, 1879.
| Sir,—Some months since I purchased in this city a crystal ball, five
j and a half inches in diameter, weighing nearly five pounds. It is a
| splendid specimen of the kind, and apparently very old. A jeweller
here says that it is a topaz, and invaluable as a curiosity. I am
| acquainted with the use to which these crystals are put by clair¬
voyants, and append a communication received at our “ circle ” respect¬
ing this one, given through the planchette.
| My object in writing to you, however, is to endeavour to obtain some
information likely to lead to the history of so large a crystal as this is
i —larger than any described by Dr. Gregory or any other writer I
j have access to.
I have only to add that its influence when gazed upon for some
i minutes is sufficient to deprive a sensitive of external conscious¬
ness; and to our trance medium* it communicates a most powerful
j influence.
Will you kindly give this space in your paper, in the hope some
! correspondent may be in a position to afford the information required 1
Communication received at the oldest circle in Melbourne, November
18th, 1878, the planchette being held by two ladies, one of them
| being a trance and writing medium
| “The influence of the crystal counteracts the mesmeric influence
| from us upon you, and prevents our having control.
“Though useful in some phases of development, it is not a help in
| this kind of communion. Its influence is of a subtle nature, entering
| into the spiritual particles of bodies affecting the circulation of the
r life principle. Its uses are not understood by many in the physical
| sphere. Surrounding it there is a zone of mesmeric influence, formed
I by the currental flow of its odylic force, which attracts to it the same
kind of influence residing in, or generated in, the human organism,
| it being of a like nature on the material side, and partaking of the
I higher and more refined state of etherealised matter. It has a more
| powerful effect upon some organisms than others, particularly those
| sensitive to the aura of persons and animals.
“Did you understand this crystal, its properties and uses, you
| would know more about the law of attraction and sympathy which has
i such power in your lives, though very rarely recognised. Yet it is
j the great motive power in your social life.—(Signed) Theobald.”
H. P. Bunney.
| Melbourne, Victoria, January 23rd, 1879.
jj,
SPIRIT MESSAGES UPON MESMERISM AND MEDIUMSHIP.
| Sir,—I send you a few extracts from some spirit messages I have
j had at different times on the subject of “Mesmerism and Mediumship.”
i Perhaps, if you have room to spare, some of your readers may be
I interested in them.
| “ Mesmerism deals with the circle of life which is around each one.
| It encircles, as it were, as a whole all those who are in harmony,
forming the sphere around them. Mesmerism determines the sphere,
j An adverse influence introduced into any sphere produces clashing
I and disorder. This must happen, more or less, whilst in the body, and
is the great origin of evil.
Whilst in the intensely material frame the spirit is veiled, and
natures (or mesmeric influences) are misunderstood ; but in the spirit
land, in the unveiled light of the source of all light, love, and truth,
all is clear.
“ The circle within circle, the sphere within sphere of the various
spiritual existences may there revolve in harmony around the great
centre, producing beauty, rather than clashing—harmony, rather than
discord.
“ Where spirit is united to spirit the rapport must be perfect,
whether in the body or out of it. When these grand laws of
mesmerism are more understood and acted upon, the world of evil
will become subdued; harmony and love will reign universally, and
then shall the kingdom of righteousness and truth be upon earth as it
is in heaven.”
Question.—What is the difference between spirit healing power and
what we may call ordinary mesmerism ?
Answer.—“ As all mesmerism derives its origin from the great life-
force of the universe (the world-soul), as by it matter is permeated,
mesmerism given forth by the mesmeriser (as distinguished from the
healing medium) must be of the same kind, but lesser in degree.
Also, as it is given forth by his will power, there is the element of his
own physical.sphere mixed therein, which of itself involves all the vast
difference in quality that must arise between his mesmerism and the
purer, higher, and more ethereal, quality of the life-force as poured
through the passive spirit medium, the latter being but the channel of
* Mr. Stowe.
142
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 21, 1879.
the force spoken of. Harmony of condition is needed before benefit j (
can arise. Certain temperaments, or mesmerisms, are out of all i)
harmony with some other temperaments or mesmerisms. If the j j
medium for healing and the patient should be repelled one from the i |
other, the conditions may be so disturbed as to hinder any good result i \
arising from the spirit power. . . . There is a wide difference j (
between the spiritual realities and the earthly ones. True, one is the j j
type of the higher or more developed; but this does not remove the ;)
difficulty. ^ I
“ One grand law of the mystery of the intercommunion between the i j
two worlds is constantly violated. It is impossible for all spirits to j)
become completely en rapport with all mediums. If each medium j
could by any means be kept entirely to the one set of spirits j
immediately en rapport with his sphere of mesmerism, so many ) |
mistakes would not occur. (i
“ Spirits are as anxious to communicate to you on earth as you are j j
to hear from them all they would say. And as spirits are not much - j i
wiser than men on earth about these laws, much error comes. Of l
course, evil spirits will lie; but very often, on the other hand, what [ I
looks like lying is not intended for that, but merely arises from the j
difficulty there is to express the right ideas. : . . There are so j
many difficulties in the control of mediums. I wish to fathom the j | j
philosophy of it. It is to tis here a system of telegraphy which we |) I
want to understand better. But in dealing with the laws of individual | j i
mediumship, we find it far more intricate than in dealing merely I j j
with other laws of nature. Each medium was, as it were, a law to [)
himself. , ijt
“’Tis true that in the lower physical manifestations the laws are {j
more simple, having to do with the nerve power, the muscles, and the | ] |
external body. But when it comes to the higher psychological laws, (
there is no law working without interference, for it has to do with the | j j
brain tissues in its ramifications throughout the body; the mental in )
place of the physical. j j
“ Mental conditions cannot be fully controlled by us or by the medium, j) j
because the individual mind and groove of thought can but receive |
what can run in these grooves if you are to receive a clear, lucid | \ j
message. j i
“If we attempt to instil knowledge that is not capable of flowing j j I
into the groove it will come forth disfigured, distorted, injured.
“ The time approaches when matter will be subservient to spirit, 1) J
and then knowledge of a far purer, higher, and clearer type will be <
given.” . E, J. T. j
St. Leonard’s-on-Sea.   i j j
THE ABOLITION OF CAPITAL PUNISHMENT. j
« Sib,—Might it not be well now to give more prominence than a letter j j
can afford to this subject, seeing how painfully public attention has j j
again been drawn to it by the apparently wrongful conviction of Habron i j I
for the Whalley Range murder ? jjj
You will see by the enclosed cuttings from the 2?cAo that since 1831, | j
in this country alone, it is now known that seven innocent persons, at i
least, have been condemned to death, and four of them hanged, which in 11
itself should be sufficient argument for the abolition of a law that fails in | i
its professed deterrent purpose; which occasionally causes the igno- I
minious destruction of innocent people; which temporarily elevates jj
criminals into heroes; and which generally demoralises all who have to )!
do with their doings till the gallows has done its work.
Formerly life was taken for sheep-stealing; and since the abolition of 11 j
its being a capital offence, do we hear of more sheep being stolen, jj
or less ? 111
If, then, we see the non-deterrent effect of capital punishment in j j
regard to the much easier and commoner practice of thieving, why i j i
should we assume it would be otherwise in regard to murder ? j j i
Indeed, in those States where it is abolished, murders are not unusually | j
rife; and this answers the only possible reason for maintaining so per- i j j
nicious a law. I j j
As a Christian people, too, we are certainly bound to give a murderer j i
the best chance possible of a thorough repentance, by a confinement that j j!
would not be a perpetual torture, but regulated in its painfulness by the I j j
clear evidence of contrition and improvement of the culprit. j j j
The sadly pernicious teaching of a radical change being effected in a jjj
day or two from a state of the blackest crime to one of purity, such as j
that most wretched being Peace asserted he had achieved, few, I trust, i j j
really believe. Spiritualists, at any rate, know the fallacy of such a I j I
notion, and the important need of making others know it. They also | j |
know how liable we are to have other deadly crimes committed amongst j j j
us by hurrying out of existence a revengeful criminal, who would I j
naturally do his best to incite others of low state to similar crime.
What an incalculable good the “social science” people might effect if jjj
they would scientifically define the causes of crime, with an honest j j j
determination to, so far as possible, abolish it from our midst; not to j I j
let it drift elsewhere, as (true to our selfish principles) we do with our j J j
sewage, among other refuse, to poison and rob our more distant neigh- jjj
hours, but abolished from among us for ever. j | j
t Bad as was the character of Charles Peace, it seems more than j J j
probable that the alleged Dyson murder was one of manslaughter, and, j j i
but for the deadly prejudice against Peace—the fear his desperate cha- I | j
racter caused, the strong desire to be rid of him, and his inability to get j J i
properly defended—such, probably, would have been the verdict. This j j j
view has been most worthily maintained by only one daily paper known j J j
to me, that zealous champion of truth and progress, the Echo. A | J i
friend of ours has also done what he could to give publicity to the same j j j
views of justice and humanity to every one, however black he may be. i) j
At our last Sunday evening seance, my clairvoyant sister saw a jjj
very dark spirit striving to gain an entrance, but in vain, and at last we j j j
were informed by “Dr. Forbes,” who was controlling, that the dark jjj
spirit was Charles Peace, who wished to thank our friend for his 1 < i
exertions on his behalf, and also for seeking the abolition of capital
punishment.
The previous night the medium, wife of the friend referred to, was
awoke from a semi-state of sleep by a terrifying influence, which caused
her to scream. She then saw a form as “ dark as soot,” which seemed
as “ a great beetle,” or conveyed that idea to her mind.
This morning the friend I have named called on me, and we sat to
see what further Charles Peace might have to say, as we did not wait
on the Sunday evening to hear all, the circle feeling exhausted. A
strange spirit controlled, and said he represented Charles Peace. He
gave us Dyson as his name (without our having thought of him), and he
stated that he had a struggle with Peace before the latter shot him, and
that now he had forgiven him. He further stated that Peace desired to
repeat that he shot the policeman Cock, and that though he (Peace) is in
a very low state, he is repentant, and anxious to arise, which he can
best do through the good influences of people in this state of life.
A. E. Williamson.
March 10th, 1879.  
SPIRITUALISM IN THE UNITED STATES.
Sir,—Thinking that a few spiritualistic notes from this side of the
Atlantic may be of interest to your readers, I jot down a few of the
most important, though nothing very noteworthy is occurring at the
present time.
I will commence by stating that your latest exportation to these
shores, Mr. W. J. Colville, is a decided success. This will doubtless
be a source of satisfaction to English Spiritualists. This gentleman has
been actively employed ever since he came here, and the teachings of
his guides seem acceptable to all classes of minds. He has been
engaged by the society holding its meetings in the Parker Memorial
Hall for two separate months, and he is now engaged again for another
month. Besides this, he holds a meeting on his own account every
Sunday morning in the Paine Memorial Building, and in the evening
generally lectures in some neighbouring town. He also is delivering a
course of Friday evening lectures on the Apocalypse in the south part
of the city. His last Sunday’s engagement was one of unusual interest,
and deserves special mention. At the Unitarian Church in Manchester,
New Hampshire, representative services are being given by different
religionists, each providing as good a man as is available to state his
reasons for being what he is—a Catholic, a Jew, a Methodist, a
Baptist, &c., as the case may be—and Mr. Colville was selected
to answer the question, “Why am I a Spiritualist?” The church
was full to overflowing, and much interest was excited in Mr. Colville’s
address. So much was this the case that another good meeting was held
the following evening in the City Hall, when Mr. Colville further
elaborated his theme, and replied to the queries of his audience. The
idea is a good one, and indicates great liberality on the part of the
Unitarian body, and affords an example worthy to be followed. In
Boston Unitarianism may be considered the religion of the cultured
classes, and some of its ministers are pretty outspoken against the
ordinary orthodox doctrines. Here is an instance. Last Sunday the
Rev. M. J. Savage preached a sermon on “ The Church and the
Theatre,” in the course of which he is reported to have said—“ While
he believed in the influence of the pulpit, he maintained that the
pulpits of Boston, by their baseless assertions about heaven and hell, and
other equally absurd statements, do as much injury every year as the
theatres of the city.”
In regard to physical manifestations nothing very striking is going on
at the present time in Boston. Mr. and Mrs. Holmes were here during
the latter half of the past year, and did a good work in demonstrating
the great fact of materialisation. Owing to the “ Katie King ” affair at
Philadelphia they were looked upon at first with suspicion, but the very,
decided character of their manifestations soon put to flight all notions of
fraud, the manifestations being so prompt and trustworthy as to render
any supplementary action on the part of the mediums wholly un¬
necessary. During the materialisations Mrs. Holmes sits in the room
as one of the circle, or rather half-circle, and Mr. Holmes is
locked in a cage in the cabinet. Under these circumstances full forms
appear at the door of the cabinet, and occasionally come into the room,'
generally a dozen of an evening, and are seen in a fair amount of light.
On two occasions one of the forms came into the room, and unlocked a
door and threw it open. On another occasion, the cage in which Mr.
Holmes was confined was turned in the opposite direction, the door-end
being full butt against the wall. For Mr. Holmes to have done this
himself would be something like raising himself up by his waistband.
Living close by, I was a frequent visitor to their stances, and had great
facilities for judging of the matter. I had the satisfaction of seeing
several times the form of Mr. J. H. Powell, who is well known to many
of the early English Spiritualists. He was the first to introduce
Spiritualism to myself, and then became a coadjutor of mine in its dis¬
semination, acting as editor of The Spiritual Times, of which I was
proprietor. When I first visited this country and went to Philadelphia,
Mr. Powell communicated to me through a medium, and also when I
first went to Boston. His appearance at the Holmes’s was perfectly
characteristic and life-like. The first few times he appeared his eyes
were closed, but the last three or four times they were open. He only
spoke on two occasions, and then very briefly and inarticulately. I
understood him to express a wish for his widow, who resides in Boston,
to come and see him. He always shook me heartily by the hand, and
appeared very pleased to see me. I also had the satisfaction of seeing
him through another medium, Mrs. Hull, when he presented, as far as
I could judge, the same appearance as at the Holmes’s. This lady’s
stances are, on the whole, the best specimen of materialisation I have
ever witnessed. On one occasion a figure, purporting to be Mr. Col¬
ville’s mother, was in the room for nearly a quarter of an hour, and this
was only one of many forms that appeared during the evening. I
shouldlike to say more about my experiences with this lady, but space
will not permit.
March 21, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
143
Mrs. Thayer, the wonderful flower medium, is still in Boston, i
Latterly she has been kept somewhat in abeyance, the spirits stating | j
that some new phase of development is about to take place. When her j)
seances are resumed I hope to make further experiments with a box, | j
not for my own satisfaction, but in order that others may obtain the |)
evidence of the power of spirits to pass such fragile things as flowers j)
into a perfectly close box without in the least impairing their pristine ] {
perfection. I was present at a stance of Mrs. Thayer’s a few evenings i)
ago when flowers were brought in unusual quantities. Besides a ]
branch of fir tree, three feet in length, which came in less than a j
minute after the light was extinguished, there were enough flowers for )
all present, a dozen in number, to carry away a moderate-sized bouquet I
of choice flowers. In the autumn of last year two gentlemen from the j
Far West attended a seance of Mrs. Thayer’s, at which two large white 5
bell-shaped flowers were produced. These were stated by the gentle- j
men to be the flora granda, a flower peculiar to California. At every
subsequent seance one or more of these flowers have been found j
on the table, and the spirits, through Mrs. Thayer and through other j
mediums, assert that they are brought from the Pacific coast, a distance I
of 3,000 miles. Mrs. Thayer still entertains the idea of visiting |
England, but is waiting instructions from headquarters to do so. When !
she does go to you considerable interest will, I have no doubt, be mani- | ]
fested in her seances. Mrs. Thayer has been thoroughly tested many j
times. The following certifies to one instance:—
‘c At a regular meeting of the Theosophical Society, held at Mott j
Memorial Hall, in New York City, on the 5th day of January, a.d. j
1876, it was on motion resolved that the thanks of the society are due, j
and they are hereby tendered, to Mrs. M. B. Thayer for her kindness j
in coming before the society this evening; that a copy hereof, duly
attested, be transmitted to Mrs. Thayer, with a memorandum certifying
to the occurrences.
“Memorandum.—The society adjourned to 128, West Forty-third-
street, residence of Dr. Newton, the treasurer. Mrs. Thayer was
securely fastened in a bag. The seance was dark. At the end of
about an hour many flowers and two ring-doves, alive, were found
on the table. We certify that, in our opinion, no fraud was practised
by either the medium or any other person then present. H. S. Olcott,
president, attest., January 5th, 1876. William D. Judge, secretary
ipro temV
There is residing in Boston a remarkable medium for physical mani¬
festations—Mrs. Bell Youngs, who is known as the piano medium,
this being the instrument she generally operates with. To appreciate
her powers it is necessary to state that the pianos in ordinary use in
this country are the old-fashioned square instruments, and are generally j
very heavy, weighing, in some instances, as much as half a ton. At j
one of these instruments Mrs. Youngs will sit in full light, and almost
as soon as she commences playing the instrument will rise and continue j
to beat time with the front legs. It will do the same if I play it and
she stands beside me. I have seen her stand in front of the instrument, j
and extending her hands above it, not in contact, tell it to come up,
which it would then do. If it made a noise in going down, she would
tell it to get up again and to descend softly, which order would be |
obeyed. At every seance the instrument is weighted by as many
persons as can be seated on it, when the instrument will beat time to
the music with the greatest facility, the additional weight making not |
the slightest difference.
The late President Lincoln, it is stated, took considerable interest
in these manifestations, and was accustomed to lie at length on the j
piano and let the spirits give him “a ride,” as he called it. It was at |
this time that he received, through a young girl who was associated
with Mrs. Youngs, directions relative to emancipation, and through ;
her lips, it is averred, the proclamation was dictated.
The late Professor Henry, of the Smithsonian Institute at Wash¬
ington, I understand, made a great experiment with Mrs. Youngs in
order to discover the nature of the force that was exhibited. What
conclusion he came to I do not know, but I believe he expressed his
conviction that it was not electricity, inasmuch as it was not governed
by the same laws.
I should very much like Mrs. Youngs to exhibit her powers before
the Boyal Society savans. They could not very well dispute the fact,
whatever theory they might advance to account for it. If any of the
Carpenter stamp were blind or bigoted enough to dispute the fact, the
words of Galileo, “ still it moves,” might be appropriately applied.
I intended to have made a few remarks upon the controversy that
exists here on the subject of fraudulent mediumship, but must reserve
them until another time. Robert Cooper. j
Boston, U.S,A., March 7th. ——*- j
THE SENSATIONS OF A MEDIUM.
Sir,—From what I have read in your paper lately, there appears to
be a desire to arrive at some laws by which we can say if there be such
a thing as soul, and if so, “ How can we test its quality and state !
scientifically ?” (which I take to mean accurately). If I am right, then
the words of one who has studied the subject must be of value, and j
as I have long done so, I will give some of my experiences.
From long observation I can say truly that there are such things as
spirits, in and out of the body, and that men have souls, for I have seen !
them, felt them, and heard them, when compos mentis. When I feel a j
person’s influence I can tell if it be one in or out of the body, because |
if in the body (or what we call a person in earth-life) the influence |
begins from the legs and works upwards. This I have tested hundreds j
of times. If of a person who has passed the boundary called death, the
influence begins from the head and works downwards. If the person is
refined and intellectually developed, the influence is warm and strong; j
if ignorant, the influence is cold, and has a beclouding effect on the
mind. If vicious, it causes a contentious feeling, a desire to quarrel.
These symptoms apply to those out of the body. If I go into company ]
not friendly to me, I can feel a disturbed, repugnant influence. If I am
dealing with persons who are dishonest, their influence affects me
across the perceptive faculties with a confusing impression. If I go
j amongst friends, their influence is warm ; but if amongst contentious,
i unfriendly people, I go away cold and hungry. If I am lecturing to
! a body of persons, and they do not comprehend me, a confusing in¬
fluence at once comes across my reasoning faculties.
| Now, I argue that we cannot feel “ nothing,” but that what I feel is
j “ something,” and that something is the soul influence, or the mental
| influence of a person, or persons. To me it is a matter of great im-
i portance, because by it I can detect a lie at once, or know the sort of
| company I am in. If I am reading a book containing great errors, I
feel at once a confusing influence across the perceptives.
  Compos Mentis.
“truth is stranger than fiction.”
Sir,—One summer evening, about eight years ago, I was surrounded
by my family, who engaged in joyous conversation. I was delighted
with their happiness. Leaving the room to procure some material from
an adjacent apartment, I quickly crossed the lobby, and entered. Im¬
mediately I was met by an unseen power. I did not need sight to
know the character and form of the spirit. From my hand
to my foot I became a military officer, whose costume
and accoutrements were mine for the time. A sense of per-
j sonal, dignified, habitual command, princely in its serenity,
j accompanied the control. I stood quiet,' endeavouring to under-
| stand the cause of my astonishment, two minutes, and it was
gone. From what I experienced in this sudden visitation I am of
opinion that the right hemisphere of my brain received the spirit influ¬
ence, and not the left, as I had the distinct impress (foreign to myself)
only on my right side, retaining my personality free. I was enabled to
distinguish clearly the attributes of my spirit visitor from the simple
idiosyncrasy of my own life. E. Black.
Edinburgh.
THE DEMISE OF MR. WILLIAM HOWITT.
We regret to announce the departure from earth-life of Mr. William
Howitt, the author, who for some time previously had been living at
Rome. The Banner of Light says:—” He was born in 1795, at Heanor,
in Derbyshire, England, and was brought up in the Society of Friends.
In 1823 he married Miss Mary Botham, of Uttoxeter, and their first
work, The Forest Minstrel, published in 1823, bore their joint names
upon its title-page. Mr. and Mrs. Howitt soon became known to a wide
| circle by their contributions to The Literary Souvenir, the Amulet, and
j other annual publications. In 1831 Mr. Howitt produced his Booh of
the Seasons, in 1833 the History of Priestcraft, in 1837 The Rural Life of
! England, and about the same time Colonisation and Christianity, The
| Boy's Country Booh, and two series of Visits to Remarhable Places, Old
I Halls, and Battlefields. In 1840 Mr. and Mrs. Howitt took up their
abode at Hiedelburg, and Mr. Howitt published in 1841 his Student's
I Life in Germany, containing translations of some of the most popular
! German songs. Among Mr. Howitt’s other works are The Rural and
i Domestic Life of Germany, German Experiences, The Aristocracy of Eng¬
land, Haunts and Homes of British Poets, The Hall and the Hamlet,
and Madame Dorington of the Dene. In 1846 Mr. Howitt became
joint proprietor and one of the managers of The People's Journal.
Howitt's Journal appeared in 1847. In 1852 Mr. Howitt set sail for
Australia. Land, Labour, and Gold; or, Two Years in Victoria: with
Visits to Sydney and Van Pieman's Land, contains an account of his
experience. He afterwards wrote the Illustrated History of England,
the sixth and last volume of which was completed in 1861. His more
recent works are The Ruined Castles and A hheys of Great Britain and
Ireland; the History of the Supernatural in all Ages and Nations ; Dis¬
covery in Australia, Tasmania, and New Zealand; and The Mad War
Planets, and other Poems."
He considerably aided the progress of Spiritualism by the books he
wrote in connection with the subject in its early days. -
A new weekly Spiritualistic periodical entitled Mind and Matter has
been established at Philadelphia in connection with Spiritualism.
Last Monday night Mr. Alexander Calder read an interesting paper
| before the National Association of Spiritualists entitled The New Era.
! It forms a chapter of a book he is about to publish.
Mr. Disraeli, now Lord Beaconsfield, said in the House of Commons
on the death of Cobden, “He was one of those men who, though not
present, were still members of that House, who were independent of
I dissolution, of the caprices of constituencies, and even of the course of
J time.”
Mr. Harrison says:—“While a few working members of the Council of
j the National Association of Spiritualists were referring one matter to a com-
| mittee, they so worded the resolution as to make it cover another which had
previously been dealt with by special meetings of the whole Council. By
I keeping silence about the intention to cover the second matter, they managed
I to get the special-Council-meeting-subject referred to a committee without
opposition from their unsuspecting colleagues present. This, coupled with
other acts, I mildly described by the word ‘ trick.’ Mr. Massey has pub-
[ lished that such principles are * singularly well adapted to the success of
an ambuscade.’ The Council has since passed a vote of censure on me for
my utterances, but then, as it is a body which has fully endorsed the action
just stated, and accepted it as a precedent in accordance with its own innate
I sense of honour, I can afford to take the vote complacently ; also to prefer to
look for countenance to those whose acts are governed by another code of
right and wrong, and to let the matter drop, glad that I am now free from the
I performance of duties in an atmosphere of contention.”^
144
IN MKMORIAM.
EVA MAUD MORRIS,
Born May the 20th; 1878; Died February the 6th, 1879 ; Aged 8 Months and 18 Days.
A lamb from the flock on earth,
Has entered the fold above ;
"Where all is joy and happiness—
Where nothing reigns but love.
EVA MAUD
Had her prognosticators, who said she was too beautiful, too knowing, too
“ canny,” to live ; and they were right. She was taken ill on the evening of
the 28th January with an epileptic fit; two days after erysipelas set in,
followed by inflammation of the bowels, and effusion of blood to the brain.
Three medical men were in attendance, but they could do her no good, so she
left her earthly for her heavenly home on the morning of February 6th, aged
eight months and eighteen days. Had she recovered, this complication of
complaints would have left a weakness painful for her to bear, and for her
parents to witness. She is better off in the painless and sinless state into
which she has entered.
A silence reigns within the home,
That once was" full of childish prattle,
When infant crows and screams of joy
Were mingled with life’s din and battle.
You would not ask
Why silence reigns,
If you had felt
The sufferer’s pains:
With these so great the spirit fled,
And little Eva Maud lay dead.
The mother watched,
With tender care,
Her first-born babe :
And many a prayer
Was sent above,
To Him who gave
The blossom sweet,
That He would save.
The fiat came forth with its birth,
“ This blossom is too good for earth.”
“ Dear friends, don’t cry around the bed,
Nor grieve, for Eva Maud’s not dead:
She is not dead—let me relate
That she has only changed her state.
When she had felt her last earth-pang,
’Twas thus her infant spirit sang: ”
“ Hark, I hear the angels singing,
In the sky,
Up so high.
Whither, whither am I flitting ?
Up so high,
In the sky.
Now the sound is louder ringing,
They are nigh,
In the sky;
Thither, thither I am flitting,
Through the sky,
Up so high.
Here’s the land of light and beauty,
I am in,
Free from sin;
’Tis the end of life’s great duty,
Free from sin,
I am in.
Oh, the glory of this dwelling,
Parents, dear,
Come up here ;
Join the chorus—grandly swelling,
All is clear,
Love reigns here.”
To one who stood around that bed
Free speech was given : this was said—
“ Take this lesson to your heart,
It is given in good part;
She was sent you from above—
She is with the God of love.
Free from sin and misery,
She is watching over ye:
Watching, waiting till you come,
To that bright and heavenly home.
When the spirit leaves the clay,
Then begins its ‘ last Great Day
Giving up the heavenly flame,
Eva’s resurrection came.
Now, don’t wait to-morrow’s sun—
Say at once, ‘ Thy will be done.’ ”
The parents took it in good part,
And hid the lesson in their heart.
They prayed that God would give them grace,
To humbly bow before His face;
To work and wait,
Till heaven’s high gate
Should ope to let the weary in,
Where suff’rings cease, and every sin
Is cast away ;
Where all obey
The promptings of the God of love,
Who rules that better world above:
And join with those who’ve gone before
Their God and Saviour to adore ;
And where, for ever, they will sing
The praises of their heavenly king.
I These words they heard from day to day,
II Which helped to cheer them on their way •
“0, parents dear,
i A brighter sphere
|, Than earth, now holds your Eva Maud ;
| TMs glorious throng,
| In rapturous song,
' Our God and Saviour always laud.
So do not stay,
j ' Come up this way,
And then the angels will applaud.” .
! *******
| A pair of waxen hands,
j Folded on the breast;
M A pair of dark blue eyes,
] j . Closed and gone to rest;
j | A pair of rosy cheeks,
■ 1 ! Looking just like life ;
j j A pair of compressed lips,
j I Ne’er will speak of strife ;
{ A pair of tiny dimples,
I One upon the chin ;
A face so soft and pleasant,
j All so calm within;
j A pair of little feet,
Never now will run,
j I Or play upon the lawn,
j | J In the morning sun.
Put on the coffin led,
Hide her from our sight;
Her spirit is with God,
In the land of light.
To-day we laid the body low,
Within the earth, its element;
As “ dust to dust ” it will decay—
For heaven it was never meant.
The Book of Life affirms most clear,
That “ flesh and blood can’t enter there.
1 ] Sunny End, Malvern Link, February 8th. 1879. J. Morris.
I) TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A superfine edition of the first volume of Mr. Harrison’s forthcoming book,
Spirits Before our Eyes, will be issued, in addition to the ordinary one.
Very few of the superfine edition will be printed, but those who order
copies in advance, that is to say, within a week from this date, will be sure
to receive them. This special edition will be printed on extra thick and
superior paper, and handsomely bound in half-calf, price ten shillings the
volume, post free. The usual and larger edition will be of as moderate a
price as possible. The book will be out very soon.
| T. W. (and others).—We can never say anything about the publication of
anything without first seeing it.
Can anybody obtain us a copy of, or extracts from, Dr. Meier’s Hochst merk-
wiirdige Geschichte der magnetischen Hellseherin, Auguste MiiUefr? We have
not its date, nor the Christian name of its author. Auguste Muller lived
i in Karlsruhe some sixty years ago, and she was a mesmeric sensitive known
to Professor Kieser. There may possibly be something about her in D. G.
Kieser’s Archiv fur den Thierischen Magnetismus, Altenburg and Leipzig,
1817, &c.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
j SPIRITUALISM,
j By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Revieio.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Just Published,
SPIRIT-IDENTITY,
By M.A. (Oxon).
| Cloth 8vo, red edges, price 5s, post free.
i
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains^ among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spintualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Maech 21, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilUant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OP THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor o»
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The Question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
ople
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Bivine Revelations
The Physician. VoL I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. ,,
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformei „ IV. „
The Thinker. ,, V. . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the P
Children's Progressive Lyceum Manual .
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man'; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
i he Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . .
*. d.
15 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiiutualist Newspaper . 2 e
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my;Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge.D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-HincC; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D.. LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople. ... 1 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . IS 6
The Koran; commonly caUed the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale .  ’  10 6
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 fot' Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOE DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention abont Spiritualism and
mediums should he avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families, A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘drop abont ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age,’.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description oj Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authob and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas-been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are coached in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
hook (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
Hews
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id, post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Keens, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Seientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV Materialisations In England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Heme—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—^Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VHI—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—^Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Sir. H. M. Dunphy, Sir. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislinghury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of SeerShip—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God-
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opimons of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—^Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt —
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely hound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnage paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110a.
London; W. II. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O
iii
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new hook by
M.A. (OXON), ’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works hearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstuhbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jeneken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidenee of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adsheau, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—^Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wvld
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London, W.C, Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 6s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post tree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship oi Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
ni The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship ot
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium
ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: .Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep;
Critical Comments.
VIU.—The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treheme) and Mrs  
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XT.—Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals
ByEmile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A,
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adeima Von Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burse.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—‘‘ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.— The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship o
“ M.A, Ox.on.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington rEnnesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic.Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis¬
lingbury „
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W.H. Harris m.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. Bv Alex.
Cald jy|»
XLI.*—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLH—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. By lasette MakdougaU Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
"IVrEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
XtJL VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.: or sis copies post free
for fid.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 21, 1879
hr
Price 6d.; post free, 7$d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays hy Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street, Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Biljington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
MRS. PARKER’S NEW ART OF HEALING.
(Scientific, Psychological, and Restorative.) ■
66, WARWICK STREET, BELGRAVE ROAD, S.W.
N.B.—^References to eminent medical gentlemen.
Lectures to Ladies on Wednesdays, fat 3 o'clock: subject,
‘ Health.” Her Tonic for the Skin gives youth and bloom,
instead of age and wrinkles. When conditions are favourable
Mrs. Parker is clairvoyant.
• Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
' Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker,—4. The Cattle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung. —17. “ Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Yision.—22. ‘‘Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
part 2.—The Wohblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.1
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. ■The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book Is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of Clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time." [A.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,’’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.\ ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in oonnection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subjeot. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser of the radiometer, and discoverer of the
new metal thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zbllner, and a great
number of intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to he untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
are not), they are so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to he found in nearly every household, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements he made that there shall be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a oool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,’’ and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps he given in answer, then say, “If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? " Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do hy undeniable proof.
8. Should no results he obtained at the first two stances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the hook in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enj oy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel Is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon (faultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result."
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
RusseU-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of qnaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘ a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,860,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are In verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.’’
From 2%e Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. HarriSon’s Lazy Lays and Prose• imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...*How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If om readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.... Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us ofthe Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli*.
gions sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is*‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
the second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also he had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER IFirat Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and.Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPlER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction. of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Ciairvoyanee—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retro vision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—^Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—.
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Fredicted—M. Cahagnet’s JBxtatics—Visions of the S iiritual
World.
CHAPTER VHI: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Pfirenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:— Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Erame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications o.
Mesmerism—jphsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan
ity. Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcrait—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.. Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—^Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Wat
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII’:—^Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Khowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerhm. in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Cone ndi
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridgk & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by R. W Af.bEN, Aye
Maria-lane, London E.C.
