EsatsraRHD is i Newspaper,
SK© ©^YCao^oG^id^^ ^di^Kcis<-
dltoi; rxrjm^i-e!Er toit^ Spniwalbrn m (&xmi §nfam*
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : ix, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 272.—Otol. xi.—No. 19.)
LONDON: FKIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1877.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(EontentsL
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT BUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
at
Agenda for November, 1877.
Friday, 9th.—Library Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, Idth.—Inspirational Address at 4 p.m. Medium,
Mr. Colville.
Monday, 12t7j.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 13t7».—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.ra.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, \ith.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Medium,
Mr. Williams.
Friday, 1677t.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, VWi.—Inspirational Address at 4 p.m. Medium,
Mr. Colville.
Tuesday, 207ft.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
„ „ Soiree Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
Wednesday, 21s7.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m.
Friday, 23r<7.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
Saturday, 9ith.—Inspirational Address, at 4 p.m. Medium,
Mr. Colville.
Monday, 26th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting,
7.30 p m.
Wednesday, 287ft.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m.
Friday, 307ft.—Seance Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ Experimental Research Committee
6.30 p.m.
at
at
NEW MEMBERS.
Subscriptions paid before the end of the year by members
elected after this date will clear them up to the end of the year
1878.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
The Mesmerising of Animals. Part I. By William H.
Harrison:—The Mesmerising of Cats—The Mesmer¬
ising of Dogs—The Mesmerising of Bulls and Cows—
The Apparent Mesmerising of Buffalo Calves—The
Mesmerising of Horses—The Mesmerising of a Bear
—The Mesmerising of Lions—The Mesmerising of a
Squirrel—The Mesmerising of a Hyena—The Mes¬
merising of a Goat—The Mesmerising of Pigs—The
Mesmerising of a Leopard and Leopardess—The
Mesmering of Elephants—The Mesmerising of a
Rattlesnake—The Mesmerising of Lizards 217
Slate-Writing Phenomena. By Emily Kislingbury 222
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—The Fourth
Sessional Address by the President—Soul, or No
Soul ?—The Problem to be Solved only by Facts—The
Reality of the Soul Proved by Phenomena—The
Ignoring of Unwelcome Facts—The Dogmatism of
Certain Alleged Men of Science—Agnosticism—The
Position of the Psychological Society—Prepossessed
Witnesses—The Work of the Psychological Society... 223
Dr. Carpenter Called to Account  226
Psychological Curiosities of Anti-Spiritualism. By Alger¬
non Joy, M. Inst. C.E      226
Inquirers’ Seances    227
Correspondence:—Reincarnation—Dreams and their Phi¬
losophy— Provincial Notes, No. IV.—Astrology—
Wanted, Works on Spiritualism     227
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics qf
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-*7. oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual-
is ts in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
so has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
VVallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ivHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin,); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. 'J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. C.
Hail. F.8.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr, William Oxley; Miss Kisling
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,‘M.D. (Australia); aad many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual'subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the U nited Estates and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London; 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Oorso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
•should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff, Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE.
Chairman—Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.Tel.E.
The Research Committee having expended the sums en¬
trusted to them, will be glad to receive subscriptions towards
the objects they have in view.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSIONS.
November 12th, at 7.30 p.m., at 38, Great Russell-street,
“Recent Developments of Form Manifestations.” Papers by
Rev. Thos. Colley and Mr. Stainton-Moses. These discussions
will be continued on the second and fourth Mondays in each
month till further notice.
W. Stainton-Moses, M.A, Hon. Sec. of Committee.
SEANCES FOR ENQUIRERS.
Seances for Enquirers are held at 38, Great Russell-street,
at 8 p.m., every Wednesday. Enquirers admitted by free
tickets on the recommendation of a member, or by personal
application to the secretary. Members, with one friend, Is.
for each person. Number limited to twelve.
INSPIRATIONAL ADDRESS.
Mr. J. W. Colville gives an Inspirational Address gratis at
38, Great Russell-street, at 4 p.m., every Saturday. Subject
chosen by the audience. Questions invited. A poem, also on
a subject chosen by the audience, at the close. Admisssion
free. 
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &o., apply
to— H^E. FRANCES, Hon. SeO.
LANGHAM HALL, 43, Great Portland-street,
London. W. J. COLVILLE delivers an Inspirational
Oration followed by an Impromptu Poem (subjecls chosen by
the audience), on Mondays at 8 p.m. Admission free to
balcony. Reserved, seats 2s.; unreserved, Is. 
BIRKBECK BANK. — Established 1851. —
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.Oj
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCBOFT, Manager. ^
VJT.lAJUj.ti. JL JDXAJL A -tAJ-i/N ,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man.
THE FOURTH SESSION
Will commence on Thursday, 1st November, 1877, at 8.30 p.m,,
when the President will deliver his usual Opening Address.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE SOUL, AND HOW IT FOUND ME ;
being a narrative of phenomena connected with the
production of England and Islam, by Edward Maitland.
Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Just published, price 4d.
LAIRYOYANCE, "by Adolphe Didier. To
be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerable ability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Histosical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 5s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
X> EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JLV logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Loymarie.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the Duke’s Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-
class Instrumental Music.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show Rooms :—18o, Liverpool Street, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, Sic., Sic.;
post free, seven stamps,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 9, 1877,
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, DidsbUry, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde^park, W.
Eitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, 0. C„ Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa. Cairns-rd.. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malaoar,” Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. 'I'., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H , 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 84, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fi tz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hoiishton. Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton,
tvimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Mawson, Win. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D.
Morse. J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Gosivortliy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
N'ewboiild, Rev W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.^
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
ReimerSj Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
S'orhwbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J.,Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square,1 West Brompton, S.W.
' Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal], H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. H. Andre, Esq, H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdj6 Capoussou,
Constantinople.
f he Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobltz, bei Potschach, Styria,
The Baroness' Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris,
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sehastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Bahoo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Rikq, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmllian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipslc, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.ft.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstanes,Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France,
Samuel Chinnery,Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, ChausseeSt. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussel
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, BrulUer-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T.Biyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
rord-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
SociedadEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi-
 ■ dent, Sanor Manuel Jose Angarita. 
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
pRANNIE’S NURSERY RHYME BOOK
vX will be published as soon as Mrs. "W eldon has obtained
500 subscribers at 5s.; to non-subscribers, 7s. 6d. Illustrated
by Richard Doyle, G. Du Maurier, Holman Hunt, Thomas
Woolner, Van Der Heyde, R. S. Moseley, Rondi, Lennox
Browne, Samuel Carter, W. Boucher, Faustin, Earl of Essex,
the Lord Ronald Gower, and others. A portrait of Mrs. Weldon
by J. R. Parsons; thirty original tunes, in all the different keys.
(The words of several of them are also original.) Two are by
Oh. Gounod, also a hymn at the beginning of the book.
Address—Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
London.
Just published, 2s. paper covers ■ 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Tritbner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
Price 7s, 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before I
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of |
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the. rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Oolby AND Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
A STROLOGY, a popular sketch of Celestial
-OL Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J. Pearce, author
of the Weather Guide - Book, &c. Price Is. London:
Berger, Newcastle-street, Strand. Sent pest free by the
author on receipt of twelve penny stamps; address, 3, Cedars-
terrace, Lavender-hill, S.W.
“This work is the best that has ever been printed to convey
to those unacqua’nted with Astrology, a plain, simple, and
easily understood idea of what it really is; and before under¬
taking to leam anything about it by any of my own works, I
advise my readers to obtain and peruse this very excellent
little publication.”—Zadkibl.
N.B.—The author gives private instruction in Astrology.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
  Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER, ~
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
 Hours—Twelve till Five.
SPIRITUAL HEALING
BY JAMES REGAN,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQ., LONDON, W.O.
N.B.—Patients desiring personal treatment will please
make appointment in first instance by letter; terms as per
agreement. 
MR. W. EGLINTON
Has returned to town, and may be addressed,
32' FOPSTONE - ROAD, EARL’S- COURT, KENSINGTON,
W.
Hours—Twelve to Five.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
IT W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
/CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (32 years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at bis
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. His pamphlet on Curative Mesmerism, Is. post
free.
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational Medium,
• delivers Orations and Poems in London or the
Provinces (on subjects chosen by the audience, if desired)
For all particulars address him at 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.O.
MESMERISM, Clairvoyance, Galvanism,
and Hygienic Medicine. My natural system of
treating disease gives hope of speedy cure when all others
fail. The true secrets of Healing and Mesmerism taught.
Invaluable information for Spiritualists. Three stamps for
pamphlet, &c. Professor Lionel Phelps, 34, King-street,
Huddersfield.
ISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant,
71, Pocock-street, Blackfriars-road, London.
R. J. HAWKINS, 11, Mount Pleasant,
East-road, City-road, Magnetic Healer, open to en-
gagements to start seances and to develope mediums.
PSYCHOMETRY.—For delineation of cha¬
racter and information on development consult (if by
letter enclose photo and 10s. 6d. as fee) Mr. J. Skipsey, Ash-
ington Colliery, near Morpeth, Northumberland.
RS. S. W. FLETCHER, the mesmeric
healer, 2, Vemon-place, Bloomsbury-square. Hours,
12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appointment.
Nervous diseases a specialty.
TO MESMERISTS.—For Sale, a few copies
of Lang’s work on Mesmerism; its History, Phenomena
and Practice. Edinburgh, 1843. Post free, 4s. 6d. Many other
scarce books on animal magnetism. List sent. Lachlan, 22a,
King-street, St. James’s, London, SW.
WANTED, the address of one or two per¬
sons who have been Mesmerised at lectures, or else¬
where. Remuneration given. Address (by letter only), J.
Cranford, 3, Wells-street, Oxford-street.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW. TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300for Is., post free, or 500for Is. 6d., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.' ’
THE MAGIC STAFF, by A. J. Davis,
describes the early life of the author, and his experiences
both as a mesmeric sensitive and fully developed seer. An
interesting autobiographical record differing in kind from all
the other works by the same author; 7s. 6d. The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London,
tA % uf ifftd jljtttjiiimBm
VotujviE Eleven. Number Nineteejh.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9th, 1877.
THE MESMERISING- OF ANIMALS* | |
. Part I. ill
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON. : ; ' Ivl
A pew months ago, I heard Mr. Serjeant Cox and most |
of the speakers at the Psychological Society, including j j
the well-informed physicist Mr. W. H. Coffin, express the j | j
opinion that the mesmeric sleep is a self-induced state. One j < j
member only, so far as I recollect, opposed that view of the j j |
case. At the moment, it occurred to me that the fact that j (!
animals could be mesmerised, proved the “self-induced j j
state ” theory to be erroneous, at least in some cases, conse- | j j
quently when the Dalston Association of Inquirers into j |
Spiritualism did me the honour of inviting me to read a j j i
paper before it this evening, I thought “ The Mesmerising j j
of Animals ” a useful subject to select, and one likely, for j j
reasons hereinafter to be stated, to result in inciting hearers j |
and readers to new experiments, of far more importance in j / j
their results than without forethought might have been j j
anticipated. | \ |
The scattered evidence to be brought before you in a | j
tabulated form to-night, comes from widely separated j j
sources ; the experimentalists seem to have been unaware, i j
in most instances, of what had been done by their co-workers | j
in the same field, so that the independent results are of all the i j
more value for comparison. Some of my facts are gleaned j j
from scarce books. One of these is, Trials of Animal Mag- j j |
netismon the Brute Creation, by John Wilson, Physician to j j j
the Middlesex Hospital; London : Sherwood and Oo., 1839. j | j
There is no copy of it in the British Museum library ; it is j j
spoken of in The Zoist, of 1851, as being then out of print, j j j
and I kept a look-out for it for several years before an oppor- I I
tunity occurred of seeing or purchasing a copy, but at last I 11 j
obtained one. Another work from which I have collected ! j
information is also not in the British Museum library, and j I
has been kindly lent to me by M. Adolphe Didier; it is j j
I?Art de Magnetiser, ou Le Magnetisme Animal, par Ch. j j
Lafontaine. Paris: Germer Bailliere, 1852. The pages j !
of The Zoist have been of use, although its editor, Dr. Elliot- } j
son, did not give a tithe of the attention to this branch of
the subject which its value demanded. Information has i j
also been collected from other sources, and friends have \ |
kindly sent in contributions on the subject. i j |
The fact that animals can be mesmerised, does away, in 1 j
some instances, with the self-induction theory; it explodes j j
nearly all Dr. Carpenter’s hypotheses at one blow, though | !
truly they are overwhelmingly demolished by other facts; j ]
and it does away with the fancy that “ imagination ” is the j j
sole cause of the mesmeric sleep. The late Archbishop I j I
Whateley once wrote to Captain John James, who is now a j j
member of this Association, that the mesmerising of animals j j
deserved attention, because it overthrew the imagination !
theory; and Harriet Martineau wrote to the same effect to j j
Dr. Elliotson. Still, this branch of mesmerism does not j !
seem to have been studied so much as it deserved. j j j
In animals you have perfectly unbiassed witnesses, ! j
troubled by no theories, consequently their testimony, when | j |
it can be obtained, is received as unquestionable by the ! j j
schools of physical science, and eliminates the opinions and I j I
prepossessions of the sensitive as factors in the problem j |
attempted to be solved. At the Royal Institution, an eel m
in a basin of water is sometimes used as an unbiassed wit- | j ]
ness, to indicate by its contortions whether under certain j j j
conditions the animal organism does or does not feel an H
electric shock. I j
As with all other truths in nature, so is it with the mes- j I
merising of animals, fore-gleams of the as yet unrecognised | |
verities, are scattered among the myths and legends of the | |
* Read before the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, November 5th, 1877. 1 1 i
past. Menalcas complains, in Virgil (Eel. III., 102), that
some evil eye had fascinated his lambs, and in later times
several monkish black-letter MSS. were written on the
power of fascination by the human gaze. The superstition
of the Evil Eye is even now prevalent in the East, and in
our own country cattle and sheep were not so very long
since believed to be sometimes bewitched by the glance of
the malevolent. Vairus, Prior of the Benedictine Convent
of Sta. Sophia in Benevento, published a treatise Be Fascino
in 1589, in which he asserts that if a hyena stretches itself
for a time by the side of a sleeping dog, the latter will some¬
times be afflicted with madness. Although to those who
know the bad effect of uncongenial mesmeric influences this
may not be deemed utterly impossible, any confidence in the
judgmentof Vairus will be shakenby his further assertion that
tortoises hatch their own eggs by the power of their gaze
alone. John Lazarus Gutierrez, a Spanish physician, in
his Opusculum de Fascino (a.d. 1653), Dubium III., cites
Mendoza (iv. Problem 2), for an account of a servant of a
Tyrolese nobleman who could bring down a falcon from her
very highest flight by steadily looking at her. From Antonius
Carthaginensis he quotes the name of a man in Guadalaxara
who could break mirrors into fragments by looking at them,
and of another in Ocana who used to kill his own children,
as well as those of other folks, likewise many horses, by the
power of his eyes.
Leaving out of the question such assertions as these,
which are not easily verifiable, I now bring on evidence of a
more exact and scientific nature, recorded nearer to our own
time:—
THE MESMERISING OF CATS.
Dr. Wilson says that he made many experiments on four
cats and kittens. He adds that the trials were made—
“ From the 16th May to the 3rd October, 1838. Each of
the cats was put to sleep at the first trial, and, ultimately, I
was able to put first one and then another to sleep, and
at the end to leave three sleeping together. . . . One of
these, a tom, the first of them that was mesmerised, and on
which that operation had been most frequently repeated,
became easily and strongly influenced, so that he has been
pulled about, lifted up by the nape of the neck, and the
ears tickled with a pen, during which he would remain
motionless, and the cat was then said to be in a state of
catalepsy. Sometimes, when lifted up by the head or tail,
the eyes might partially open without the limbs moving;
when dropped down the eyes again closed, and he continued
to sleep without making any effort to move from the place
where he had been dropped.”
Kitty, a female cat, tortoiseshell, aged eight months, and
Fuzzy, a female cat, French, two months, were both put to
sleep in about a quarter of an hour the first time they were
mesmerised. On the next occasion Fuzzy was put to sleep
in five minutes, so apparently yielded more readily than at
first to the influence; she then slept for an hour and a half.
On the third occasion, Fuzzy was more than ten minutes in
being sent to sleep; she continued to sleep for an hour and
a half; she was at intervals lifted up by her neck and dropped
down again, but slept on without moving from the place.
Once, after Kitty had been sent to sleep, a walking-stick fell
across her back and remained there ; she only looked round,
and immediately fell asleep again.
Later on, in Dr. Wilson’s experiments, Fuzzy and Kitty
were less easily put to sleep, and woke up ten minutes after
he had succeeded, and had left them. Later still, Fuzzy
could resist the passes for an hour, but as he noticed that
she moved about a great deal, he put her underneath a gauze
dish cover, when she was soon sent to sleep by the passes.
Afterwards, another operator put Fuzzy and Kitty under a
wire cage, and sent them to sleep in a quarter of an hour.
218
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 9, 1877,
White Will, a tom cat, aged one year, who at first had
been easily put to sleep, on subsequent occasions resisted the
passes, moved about, and was too furious to be held. He
was, therefore, placed under the cage, against the wires of
which he dashed again and £gain with a loud noise ; he
continued angry for a quarter of an hour, then his tones be¬
came suppliant, and a few minutes later he stretched himself
out at full length, sound asleep.
When the cats were put under the cage and were not
mesmerised, they did not go to sleep, but quarrelled and
scratched each other. Once, after they had thus quarrelled
for forty minutes, a few passes were made over them. In
two or three minutes they were asleep, and slept for half an
hour.
One morning, at ten o’clock, in the middle of noise and
bustle, Dr. Wilson followed a wild fierce stable cat named Toby,
from place to place, making passes over it. When not walk¬
ing it kept licking itself almost constantly for a quarter of
an hour. It then fell asleep, and continued sleeping for three
hours.
The foregoing are good and conclusive cases. The fact
also comes out that iron wire net-work does not interfere per¬
ceptibly with the passage of the mesmeric influence or force,
whatever it may be.
Quitting Dr. Wilson’s cases, I now come to one recorded
by Mr. S. D. Saunders, of Bristol, who says in vol. x. of
The Zoist (1852), p. 169 :—
“ This morning, August 12th, two trucks were accidentally
wheeled over a favourite white cat of ours; it cried and
struggled terribly, and was quite unable to stand upon its
legs. Some persons who were present advised its being
killed at once, as they said it was impossible for the poor
thing to recover, and it would be more humane to put it out
of its misery at once. But my clerk carried it into the
room, and, holding it in one hand, he mesmerised it with
the other. In about half an hour I came home, and, after
mesmerising it strongly for some time, the pain evidently
subsided. The shoulder was exceedingly hot when I com¬
menced the passes, but soon became quite cool, and the little
animal in the course of about an hour was running about as
well as usual, with the exception of a slight lameness, which
went off in a very few days.”
I do not consider this a conclusive case for the purposes of
a serious argument. There is no evidence before us as to
the amount of bias or otherwise of the witness, whose re¬
sults were not so marked that they might not have been
conceivably due to other than mesmeric causes. But- they
tend to show that mesmerism did no harm to a half-killed
cat, whereas there is evidence tending to show that it is
sometimes injurious to birds.
Lafontaine says :—“Cats are very sensitive to the mes¬
meric fluid. I sent to sleep many. One at Mr. Badier’s, at
Belfast. I placed it on the tea table, made a few passes,
when it soon dropped its nose on the table, and had no power
to raise it. By doubling the action I sent it to sleep com¬
pletely, and I pricked it during the sleep. I awoke it, and
repeated the experiment several times the same evening.”*
THE MESMERISING OP DOGS.
In The Zoist, Yol. VII., pp. 297-8, are the following
letters about the mesmerising of dogs by the Duke of Marl¬
borough :—
“ Mote Park, Atklone, Jan. 1st, 1843.
<{ My Dear Elliotson.—At Lord Ely’s farm is a yard 1
dog, so savage and ferocious, that no one dare approach him.
I was determined to beat him, and in thirty minutes had
him fast asleep, his last sigh being a deep growl. In pre¬
sence of several persons I then kissed the dog on his fore¬
head, and there left him to awake at his leisure.—Yours
most truly, 1 Marlborough.”
Subsequently the Duke of Marlborough wrote :—
“ Blenheim, February, 1843.
(< My dear Elliotson.—I have a letter from Ely Lodge
this morning, written by Lord Adam Loftus. I extract as
follows : ( The dog has been quite stupid ever since.’
BI must now tell you what I have been doing here. I
have also a very savage yard dog. I tried him to-day; in
about fifteen minutes he ran into his kennel, and hid his
* Lafontaine’s L’Ari de Magwtiser, Paris, 1852.
eyes from the manipulating process — growling, snarling,
I and barking most furiously notwithstanding. I then made
| the man who feeds him, and who is the only person who
dares to go near him, drag him out of his kennel, and nail
| up a hurdle before the entrance, so as to keep him effectually
| outside. I then went to work again, the dog, as you may
j suppose, being ten times more furious. In about forty-five
| minutes I had him so quiet, oppressed, and stupid, that he
| dropped his nose several times in the mud around his kennel,
| and kept shutting and opening his eyes. Carts and horses,
| and men and boys were passing and repassing, which served
i continually to arouse him, so that I could not satisfactorily
| complete the task, and leave him dead asleep; besides which
a heavy snow-storm was falling all the while, and I could
not feel my fingers’ ends. But I completely subdued the
beast, and patted him on the head before I left.—Yours
most sincerely, “ Marlborough.”
Lafontaine writes:—
“ The public of Paris well remember the dog which I ex¬
hibited January 20th, 1873, at a public seance held in the
Salle Valentino. It was a little greyhound which had been
given me eight hours previously; fifteen hundred persons were
present in the hall, many of whom were incredulous and
antagonistic. At. the first passes I made to send the dog to
sleep, there was a general explosion of jokes and giggling ;
they called the animal, they also tried to distract its atten¬
tion, in order to prevent the effects attempted to be produced.
I had him on my knees, holding his paw with one hand, and
making passes over the middle of his body with the other.
After the lapse of a few minutes, the most profound silence
reigned in the hall; they saw the head of the dog fall on
one side, as it sank into a profound slumber. I rendered the
paws cataleptic and pricked them, but the dog gave no sign
of sensation ; I threw it upon an arm chair, where it rested
without motion; it was to all intents and purposes a dead
dog. They fired a pistol near its ear, but nothing indicated
that it heard the noise. Several persons pricked it with pins.
I awoke the dog, when it soon became as lively and gay as
before, nose in air, and turning its head to each noise, to
each call.” *
Dr. Wilson narrates in his book, Trials of Animal Magnetism
on the Brute Creation, how he mesmerised a female terrier,
six months old, named Vick. The first time he mesmerised
Vick, she was put to sleep in five minutes, and slept for an
hour and a half. The second time he mesmerised her, she
exhibited signs of irritation, and began biting the fender be¬
fore she went to sleep. On the third occasion, Vick was so
restless that she had to be held down with one hand, while
being sent to sleep with the other. Then when lifted up
by her neck and dropped down, she instantly went to sleep
again. The dog lay generally with its fore and hind legs
stretched out, and at times its legs were slightly convulsed.
At the fifth or sixth operation, Vick was able to resist the
passes for an hour, but she moved about a good deal, so
Dr. Wilson put her under a gauze dish-cover, and she was
then soon put to sleep.
Mungo, a “ large Scotch, black-mouthed terrier dog, was
after an hour’s mesmerising in Dr. Wilson’s presence, sent
to sleep. After he awoke, he was put to sleep two or three
more times. “ When sleeping, he moaned like what is
called dreaming.” Subsequently Mungo was sent to sleep
in half an hour, and slept for an hour.
Dr. Wilson writes :—
“ Oct. 27th, 1838 (night).—Made passes over Dinmont, a
long, wiry-haired terrier; he went to sleep in twenty minutes.
While I was acting on him, another terrier, Dandie, of the
same description, came near to me, and I acted upon him at
the same time by occasionally making passes over both.
Dandie became very stupid and motionless, when they were
both taken away.” He adds, that next day Dandie seemed
stupid. He made passes over him; in two or three minutes
he began trembling, which increased as he continued the
passes, and which tremblings he could renew at pleasure by
means of the passes; in a quarter of an hour he went to
sleep. Dinmont was then acted upon, and began to tremble.
When Dr. Wilson used both hands to make the passes, the
dog followed him for three yards,/dragging both his hind legs
* Ibid., page 256.
Nov. 9, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 219
at full length.” The dogs were often described as yawning i||
during the operations. Dandie was afterwards made to drag |;
his hind legs with his belly touching the ground. m
One morning Dr. Wilson tried for an hour to mesmerise I |
a large savage chained Newfoundland dog. He only sue- i !
ceeded in making him tremble, yawn, and lie down. On I !
the second occasion he was first mesmerised five minutes, | j
then, after an interval of twenty minutes, he was mesmerised j j
for six minutes, when he fell asleep for ten minutes, although j j
there were disturbances going on at the time. j j
A King Charles’s spaniel, a year old, went into an irrit- ! !
able state, scratching and licking itself, before Dr. Wilson j
sent it to sleep. Dr. Wilson adds:—“As in some other j
cases, I felt what I call the aura most just before the animal I
was put to sleep.” j
A large, fierce, black-and-tan terrier, Jack, was made j
stupid by the passes. He lost his balance, tottered, and at j |
last sat on his haunches. I j
Dr. Wilson makes the following curious entry:— ! j
H June 11th, 1838.—Took a puppy as it was going to be j j
drowned, one of a litter of thirteen, born about twelve hours | j
before. The father and mother were both thorough-bred j j
Great St. Bernard dogs. It was strong and lively, crawled | j
about, making the usual shrill yelping of a puppy ; after a j j
time it became still, and remained for a short time in a state j
of torpor; afterwards it began to crawl about, dragging its j i
hind legs after it; .these states succeeded each other several j i
times, when gradually its motion became impaired, and it j j
had great difficulty in dragging its hind legs after it; its I j
voice became modified from a shrill yelp to a suppressed ! |
moan. During the operation, which lasted for an hour, its 111
eyes became opened, and it saw. The remainder of the litter, j I
which were kept, did not see before the usual time, about j j
the ninth day.” j j
Dr. Wilson sent to sleep a puppy six months old, blind j |
from birth, and adds:—“Just before it went to sleep, its i j
breathings became long and loud, with much heaving of the j
flanks ; this motion of the flanks I have often noticed before, j |
in many animals, to increase just before and after the sleep j j
had begun.” j j
Dr. Wilson sent two blood-hounds to sleep by passes. j j
THE MESMERISING OF BULLS AND COWS. |(j
In this category I quote the celebrated letter, of Miss I |
Martineau, in which she sets forth how her cow was mes- | j |
merised:— m
“ Bolton, near Skipton, Aug. 19th, 1850. j | j
“ Dear Dr. Elliotson,—Your note has just reached me, ||l
having been forwarded from home. The story of the cow is | |
this:—One very hot evening in July I took some young j j
cousins to see my stock, and I saw a small pail, half full of j j
blood, at the door of the cow-house. During my absence | j
that day, my cow, Ailsie, had been taken violently ill, so that | j
the servants had sent to Itydal for the cow-doctor, who had j j j
bled her, and given her strong medicines. This had been | |
done some hours before I saw her, and the doctor said that | j
if she was not much relieved before his evening visit, he |j|
was sure she would die. There were no signs of relief in |||
any way when I saw her at seven o’clock, nor when the m
doctor came, soon after eight. He said she could not |(|
recover, and it was a chance if she lived till morning. At ||t
ten she was worse, and to be sure no creature could appear j||
in a more desperate state. She was struggling for breath, ; j
quivering, choking, and all in a flame of fever. Her eyes |||
were starting, her mouth and nostrils dry, and the functions ijj
suspended, as they had been all day. j i
“ It occurred to me then to have her mesmerised, but I |||
am afraid I was rather ashamed. The man knew nothing m
whatever about mesmerism, except the fact that I had once jo
done it, with success, to his sister. I believe he had not the jjj
remotest idea of what was done, or what it meant. jjj
“ I desired him to come up to the house at twelve o’clock, j?j
and let me know Ailsie’s state. As I sat during these two jjj
hours, I remembered how I had known cats affected by mes- Kj
merism, and how Sullivan, the whisperer, tamed vicious jj|
horses, and Gatlin learned from the Indians to secure buffalo jjj
calves by what seemed clearly to be mesmerism; and I jj
determined to try it upon the cow, if by midnight she proved j||
to be past the power of medicine. lj[
“ At midnight I went down, and found that there was no
improvement, or promise of any. I then directed the man
to mesmerise her, and showed him how. He was to perse¬
vere, till he saw some decided change, in making passes
along the spine, from the head to the tail, and also across
the chest, as she laboured more dreadfully than ever in her
breathing. Within a few minutes her breathing became
easier, her eye less wild, her mouth moist, and before morn¬
ing she was relieved in all ways.
“The first news I heard was of the astonishment of the
Itydal doctor, who came early, without an idea that she
could be alive. He exclaimed that he had (never thought to
see her alive again ;’ that ‘ it was a good £10 in Miss M’s
pocket,’ and so forth. One thing struck me much. My
man called to see me as I was in the garden, and asked me
to come and see how ( Ailsie fare to go to sleep like/ when
he mesmerised her; and it really was curious to see how her
eyes grew languid, and gradually closed under the treatment.
“ This is not all. Towards noon I was told that Ailsie
had relapsed, and was almost as bad as ever. I went down
and saw that it was so, and ordered an hour’s mesmerising
again. The relief was as striking as before, and in two hours
more she was out of danger, and has been very well since.
“ I foresee how such a story may be ridiculed; but I per¬
ceive how important it is that we should gather some facts
about the power of mesmerism over brutes, not only for
truth’s and humanity’s sake, but because the establishment
of a few such facts would dispose of the objection that
the results of mesmerism are ‘ all imagination.’ I am fond
of my cow, and stand up for her good qualities, but I cannot
boast of any imaginative faculty in her. A cow morbidly
imaginative is a new idea, I believe. If it is true that the
greatest chemist in the world says that he must believe if he
saw a baby mesmerised, I would ask him whether a cow, or
a cat, or a vicious horse, would not do as well.
“ If my cows are ever ill again, I will try the experiment
with great care, and let you know the result. I may mention
that some of my neighbours were aware of the desperate ill¬
ness of the cow, and of the doctor’s astonishment at her
recovery. We did not tell the doctor how we' inter¬
fered with his patient, and I dare say he has not heard of it
at this hour; but others of my neighbours are deeply
interested in the story, and wished it could be made known.
To this I can have no objection, as I do not mind a laugh,
and should be glad to save the life of even a single cow.—I
am, dear Dr. Elliotson, yours truly,
“ Harriet Martineau.”*
I do not regard the foregoing as a conclusive case for the
purposes of a sound argument. It is conceivable that the
cow might have recovered in the same unexpected manner
without having been mesmerised.
The Rev. T. Bartlett, of Kingstone, near Canterbury,
wrote to Dr. Elliotson, how a bull followed him on the
other side of a fence for a quarter of a mile, trying to get
at him. He adds :—
“ We came to a very high and strong gate. Upon reach¬
ing the gate, the bull rushed close up to it and bellowed
loudly through it. As I knew that he could neither leap
over it nor force this gate, I also approached it, and looked
him steadily in the face. In about a minute I caught his
eye, which then fixed upon me. In about another minute a
twinkling of the eyelids arose, very similar to that of a human
subject at an early stage of mesmeric influence. After
probably three or four minutes, the eyes gradually closed,
and the bull remained quiet, and appeared to be as im¬
moveable as if he had been chiselled by the hand of the
sculptor. . . . After looking at his fixed form for a few
minutes more, I descended the remainder of the mountain,
and did not stop to wake him.”f-
!!LThe foregoing I think to be a somewhat inconclusive case.
The bull may have been good-tempered and sleepy.
Dr. Wilson writes :—
“ Made passes on a calf, two months old, in a loose box.
In a quarter of an hour it lay down, then got up again; as I
continued acting on its head, it three consecutive times
touched my shoe with its nose, but the instant it did so it
* The Zoist, vol. viii. pp. 301-2,
t Ibid., toI. yiii„ p. 299.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 9, 1877.
220
suddenly sprang back on all fours to the extent of the loose
box, as if it had received a shock. In another half hour, it
lay down twice more; after which it became very irritable,
and licked itself violently in various parts ; then it would
lick me and take hold of my dress, without suddenly with¬
drawing itself as it did at first, when it touched my shoe ;
then it would hold up its head as I raised my hand, and lick
it; and lastly, it rubbed its head so forcibly against my legs
that I could stand there no longer, and retired. During the
operation it seemed most irritable while I held my hand
near the nape of its neck, when it shook its head violently,
or would throw it up, and put out its tongue as if licking
the air. Its breathing was deep and lengthened, almost
snoring at one time. The time of-operation, an hour and a
half.”
I do not consider this to be a conclusive case, not knowing
what antics a frisky young calf might play, if it thought a
physician from Middlesex Hospital to be going through
gymnastic performances for its amusement.
It is safest to label all the cases I have been able to collect
as to the mesmerising of cattle, as inconclusive and unsatis¬
factory.
THE APPAKENT MESMERISING OP BUFFALO CALVES.
George Gatlin, in his delightful book on the North Ameri¬
can Indians, says that when in buffalo hunting some of the
calves lose sight of their dams—
“ They endeavour to secret themselves, when they are ex¬
ceedingly put to it on a level prairie, where nought can be
seen but the short grass of six or eight inches in height, save
an occasional bunch of wild sage, a few inches higher, to
which the poor affrighted things will run, and dropping on
their knees will push their noses under it, and into the grass,
where they will stand for hours with their eyes shut, imagin¬
ing themselves securely hid, whilst they are standing up quite
straight upon their hind feet, and can easily be seen at several
miles distance.
“ It is a familiar amusement for us accustomed to these
scenes, to retreat back over the ground where we have just
escorted the herd, and approach these little trembling things,
which stubbornly maintain their positions with their noses
pushed under the grass, and their eyes strained upon us as
we dismount from our horses and are passing around them.
From this fixed position they are sure not to move, until
hands are laid upon them, and then for the shins of a novice
we can extend our sympathy ; or if he can preserve the skin
on his bones from the furious buttings of its head, we know
how to congratulate him on his signal success and good luck.
In these desperate struggles for a moment, the little thing
is conquered, and makes no further resistance. And I have
often, in concurrence with a known custom of the country,
held my hands over the eyes of the calf, and breathed a few
strong breaths into its nostrils ; after which I have, with my
hunting companions, rode several miles into our encamp¬
ment, with the little prisoner busily following the heels of
my horse the whole way, as closely and as affectionately as its
instinct would attach it to the company of its dam.
“ This is one of the most extraordinary things I have met
with in the habits of this wild country; and although I had
often heard of it, and felt unable exactly to believe it, I am
now willing to bear testimony to the fact, from the numerous
instances which I have witnessed since I came into the
country. During the time that I resided at this post, in
the spring of the year, on my way up the river, I assisted
(in numerous hunts of the buffalo with the Fur Company’s
men), in bringing in, in the above manner, several of these
little prisoners, which sometimes followed for five or six
miles close to our horses heels, and even into the Fur Com¬
pany’s Fort, and into the stable where our horses were led.
In this way, before I left for the head waters of the Missouri,
I think we had collected about a dozen.”*
This does not absolutely prove the intervention of mes¬
meric influence. If our respected honorary secretary simi¬
larly took a buffalo calf by the ears, and raised its nose from
a sage-bush on Hackney Downs, it is conceivable that the
tender and simple animal might say to itself—(< They have
driven my parents away to the land of the setting sun, but
I see unexpected kindness and beauty in the eyes of this
■ * The Manners, Customs, and 'Condition of the North American Indians, By George
Catlin, Vol. I. Ohatto a*d Windus, 1876,
gentle stranger. I will follow him whithersoever he goeth ;
his home shall be my home, and his friends my friends.”
Animated by these touching sentiments, the calf might
follow his new friend to these rooms, without mesmerism
having anything to do with the matter. Who can decide ?
THE MESMERISING OF HORSES.
Mr. H. S. Thompson, of Fairfield, York, gives the follow¬
ing account in The Zoist. His letter is dated November,
1845
“ Last winter I tried the power of mesmerism in inflam¬
mation on two horses.
“ The first had got out in the stall, and had severely
injured his eye. There was great inflammation; the eyelids
were closed and very much swollen, and the eye seemed
seriously injured; the cornea quite opaque. I mesmerised
the eye by passes over it for half an hour, when the animal
opened the eye and the inflammation was considerably abated.
The first ten minutes the horse did not seem to experience
any sensation; afterwards, however, it was evident that it
did so, as it slightly twitched its head away every time I
passed my hand over the eye, although I did not touch it, but
made the passes a few inches distant. The operation was
repeated by my groom that day, and twice the following day,
when all swelling had subsided, and there were no signs of
inflammation, merely a white streak across the cornea,
evidently from the severity of the blow, and which was some
months before it was quite obliterated. - No other means
were used at all for its recovery.
11 The second was a horse who had a severe cut on the
back sinew of the fore leg. There was great inflammation in
the leg, and the horse, from pain, had not placed his foot
firmly on the ground from a few hours after the accident.
On the third day I made passes down the leg at the distance
of about an inch from the leg, continued the process for
little more than half an hour, when the leg was considerably
cooler, and the horse placed the foot flat and firmly on the
ground.”
The foregoing cases seem to have been carefully recorded,
but as the possibility exists that coincidences may have been
observed rather than consequences, unquestionable conclu¬
sions cannot be drawn from the two experiments described.
Dr. Wilson made three prolonged attempts to mesmerise
horses, without any very decided indications of success.
THE MESMERISING OF A BEAR.
In Chambers's Journal for October 27th, 1849, is the follow¬
ing paragraph, written by Mr. F. T. Buckland (son of the
then Dean of Wesminster) :—
u A gentleman residing at Oxford had in his possession a
young Syrian bear from Mount Lebanus, about a year old.
The bear was generally good-humoured, playful, and tract¬
able. One morning the bear, from the attentions of some
visitors, became savage and irritable; and the owner, in
despair, tied him up in his usual abode, and went away to
attend his guests. In a few minutes he was hastily recalled
to see his bear. He found him rolling about on his haunches,
faintly moving his paws, and gradually sinking into a state
of quiescence and repose. Above him stood a gentleman,
well known in the mesmeric world, making the usual passes
with his hands. The poor bear, though evidently unwilling
to yield to this new influence, gradually sunk to the ground,
closed his eyes, became motionless and insensible to all
means used to rouse him. He remained in this state for
some minutes, when he awoke, as it were, from a deep sleep,
shook himself, and tottered about the court as though suffer¬
ing from the effects of a strong narcotic. He exhibited
evident signs of drowsiness for some hours afterwards. This
interesting scene took place in the presence of many dis¬
tinguished members of the British Association when last
held in the University of Oxford.—F. T. Buckland.”
Mr. Buckland told Dr. Elliotson that he himself sent the
foregoing paragraph to Chambers's Journal.
THE MESMERISING OF LIONS.
Dr. Wilson narrates that he once began to make passes
over a lioness, who was eating a half-devoured joint; she
almost immediately ceased eating, and ceased growling, and
occasionally closed her eyes. Whenever visitors neared the
cage, he left off making passes. When he ceased his inter¬
mittent trials, the lioness began to tear the joint, after
Nov. 9, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
221
having retained it fully twenty minutes in her mouth without j
once relaxing hold of it. |
Perhaps the lioness thought he had sinister designs on !
the savoury joint, so “held on.” But examined in connec- !
tion with the next case, it seems probable that there was |
some mesmeric action. > ji
Lafontaine writes :— ' I
“ At Tours, in a menagerie^ during the fair of 1840, I j
made experiments upon a lion which I had not previously I
seen. I placed myself before the cage, and fixed my eyes I
upon his. Soon his eyes could not bear.my gaze; they j
closed themselves ; then I threw the mesmeric fluid from |
one hand over his head, and in twenty minutes he was in a j
profound sleep. I then ventured to cautiously touch his j
paw, which was near the bars ; growing bolder, I pricked it, j
but he did not move. Convinced that I had produced the |
desired effect, I took the paw and raised it; then I touched |
his head, and I introduced my hand into his mouth. The |
lion slept on. I pricked him on the nose, and the lion did j
not move, to the great astonishment of the persons present, j
who could scarcely believe their eyes. I then woke him up. j
“ During my sojourn in Tours, I tried the same experiment j
several times, and always with like success. I
“At Nantes I tried the same experiment upon a lion, and j
obtained the same results.”* I
THE MESMERISING OP A SQUIRREL. !
Lafontaine says :— |
“At Paris I threw a squirrel into the sleep, audit con- |j
tinued in that state for an hour without giving any sign of jj
life.” L
THE MESMERISING OP A HYENA.
Lafontaine also writes :—
“ I tried an experiment upon a hyena. As soon as the j
hyena felt the influence, it exhibited signs of disquiet, it was
not still for a moment, and soon was in a paroxysm of fury, j
If the cage had not been a strong one it would have broken |
out of it to get at me. Every time I tried to mesmerise this j
brute the same fury was manifested, and even when on two j
or three occasions afterwards, I quietly entered the menagerie, j
the hyena would spring at me. . This was so marked that j
the proprietor asked me not to come again ; he feared that j
the cage might not be strong enough, and that there might j
be an accident.”t j.
This experiment appears not to give unquestionable proof j
of mesmeric action. The hyena is about the fiercest and j
most untameable of brutes, and may have believed it had i
just cause for irritation, although without any real ground j
for such conclusion. . j
[ /
. THE MESMERISING OF A GOAT. j
Dr. Wilson and an assistant put a she-goat, eighteen j
months old, to sleep, by means of mesmeric passes made for j
half an hour. j
THE MESMERISING OP PIGS. jj
Dr. Wilson mesmerised two large and lively pigs, nine i
months old. In half an hour they began to perspire about j
the ears and neck-, and to utter a peculiar shrill plaintive j
squeak. After an hour’s mesmerising, one of them lay j
down. Next day he mesmerised them again, in the open j
air. The effect, he says, was decided. Perspiration exuded j
from the ears, neck, and in patches all over the body, “ and j
the other excretions were also much affected.” They were j
very quiet, and at each pass one of them exhibited strong j
spasmodic convulsions of the ear, snout, and whole body, ji
After the lapse of an hour and three quarters, the inner sty j!
was opened; they both entered it at once, and one imme- j|
diately lay down and fell asleep. All through, their j
stupified quietness was contrary to their usual habits.
THE MESMERISING OP A LEOPARD AND LEOPARDESS.
Dr. Wilson made two or three trials on a leopard and j
leopardess, with unsatisfactory results, from the natural j
tendency of these animals to sleep during the day. He |
therefore gave more attention to restless and wakeful j
animals, which rarely slept except at night.
THR MESMERISING OP ELEPHANTS.
Dr. Wilson mesmerised two Ceylon elephants, male and j
female, Rajah and Hadgee, each about ten years old. He I
first tried Hadgee for fifteen minutes; she tried to strike him
first with her trunk, and afterwards with her hind leg. Next
j time she was quieter, closed her eyes sometimes, and the
| keeper said that she exhibited symptoms of going to sleep,
| but the other elephant kept teasing her. She did not seem
j to like the passes. This experiment lasted three quarters of
j an hour. The habits of the elephants were regular; they
| usually slept six hours out of the twenty-four, and began
| their sleep at ten o’clock at night. Hadgee was again tried
j for an hour without success. She retreated from the passes.
Dr. Wilson then tried Rajah for the first time, and he was
j irritated by the passes. On the next occasion, says Dr.
! Wilson, “ After making passes on Rajah for five minutes,
j while his head continued moving up and down, as is his
usual custom when awake, at the end of that time he rested
| his head against a pillar, his trunk hung down straight,
| quite relaxed and motionless, eyes closed, and he slept for
j another five minutes ; he snored both towards the beginning
j and towards the end of this sleep, when he was teased by
j Hadgee, and awoke.” Afterwards he was again sent to sleep
| for four or five minutes, In subsequent attempts to mes-
j merise Hadgee, she was sometimes rendered drowsy, but
j never sent to sleep.
THE MESMERISING OP A RATTLESNAKE.
The Religio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago), October 13th,
1877, says that it takes the following paragraph from the
j Trigg County (Kentucky) Democrat:—
“ Mr. Sam Gentry, living over the line in the adjacent
| county of Stewart, has in his possession a purse made of the
| tanned skin of a rattlesnake, which he caught and killed
|! under the following extraordinary circumstances. In going
' I along a path in a wheat-field, he came across the snake
i j lying at full length before him, manifesting no disposition
} j to retreat or attack, and apparently waiting for something
| to turn up. Mr. Gentry, who is a practical mesmerist, con-
j eluded to try his powers upon the dangerous reptile before
j him, reasoning that if a snake can mesmerise a bird, why
j cannot man, endowed with greater mesmeric power, put a
■ snake under the power of his will ? Taking his position at
| the side of the dangerous but quiet subject, he made quick,
j undulatory passes with both hands from the head to the
I tail, and in a few moments had the satisfaction of seeing the
| snake completely within his power—charmed, mesmerised,
j whichever it may be properly called. Placing one of his
j hands in front of his subject, it immediately crawled on his
| right arm, then over his neck to the left, Gentry in the
j meantime continuing the mesmeric passes. "He then carried
j the rattlesnake home on his arm, when, under his directions,
one of his sons opened its mouth and unfolded its fangs,
the snake quietly submitting to the novel operation. After
! fully satisfying a number of his neighbours, who were pre-
j sent and witnessed the affair, of the truth of his theory, he
j cast the snake to the ground, killed it, stripped off the skin,
j tanned it, and made himself a purse which he has ever since
| carried about his person.”
As this is an American newspaper paragraph, which does
j not even reach me at first hand, I consider the statements
| doubtful, unless they should be further verified.
THE MESMERISING OP LIZARDS.
Lafontaine says:—
“ At Livourne, in the spring of 1849, I captured several
j lizards, and placed them separately in wide-mouthed bottles,
j I attempted to mesmerise several, and found among them
j two which I threw into a profound sleep. In this state I
j could shake the bottles, and throw them up and d(own with-
! out the lizards exhibiting any sign of life. After twenty-four
; j hours I woke them up by making reverse passes; soon they
i i began to move, and to turn and twist inside the bottles.
| j “ I devoted my attention principally to two of them, and
II sometimes left them for several days without awaking
) j them ; then I would remove the mesmeric fluid, give them
| their liberty for a single hour, and send them to sleep again,
j Sometimes, on the contrary, I let several days pass without
| sending them to sleep.
I “I tried other experiments with those I did not mes-
j merise. I wished to know how long they could live without
j eating. I left them in the bottles with nothing to eat;
< ^ the paper which covered the mouths of the bottles was
* Lafontaine, L'Art tie Magnetiseur, page 257. Paris 1852,
t Ibid., page 258,
222
THE SPIHlTtFALIST
Nov. 0, 1877.
pierced with small holes to give them a little air. All those m
I did not mesmerise died at the expiration of ten, eleven, j j
thirteen days, but one lived eighteen days. ijj
The two which had been mesmerised died by accident; ll
the one after forty-two days, the other at the expiration of |||
seventy-five days. I had awakened the first one, and was |jj
at the window when I accidentally knocked down the bottle, j j
which fell with the lizard upon the flagstones. As to the ]||
other, I placed the bottle upon the window-sill, in the sun; ! j
the lizard was very gay and very frisky; I was unfortunately j j
obliged to leave it, and I forgot it; when I returned after the j j
lapse of three hours, I found my poor lizard cooked; it had I j
been entirely dried up by the sun ; the glass itself was hot. j |
As he had a small supply of air in the bottle, my poor ||]
lizard was grilled after seventy-five days of fasting and of jlj
mesmeric sleep. By these experiments, I ascertained with j j
certainty that in the mesmeric sleep vigorous life may be ! j
sustained for a longtime, without food. The experiments j j
made with these two lizards are convincing proof, especially |
when taken in connection with those made upon the other j j
lizards, who, subjected to the same conditions, died after ten |||
or fifteen days, whilst the two which were mesmerised, the j j
one for forty-two and the other for seventy-five days, and | |
then died only in consequence of accidental circumstances.”* i j
The foregoing experiments with the lizards I take to be |
the most valuable brought before you to-night. If they | |
should be verified by other mesmerists, they show that the | |
mesmeric influence passes readily through glass, and that it I !
will for a prolonged time sustain the life of certain animals, |j
when food is withheld from them. I reserve for after con- I j
sideration other points of interest connected with experiments, I !
but would just remark that in trying how long mesmeric j j
passes will keep lizards alive and healthy without food, there | j
is no need to hereafter cruelly starve other lizards to death. | j
Let such revolting deeds be confined as much as possible to j j
the past generation. I I
(To be continued.') |]|
SLATE-WRITING PHENOMENA. I j
BY EMILY KISLINGBURY. ]|j
Having read in The Spiritualist of October 12 th, Mr. Epes | |
Sargent’s account of Mr. Watkins’s slate-writing manifesta- | |
tions, and hearing at the same time that Mr. Watkins had j j
arrived in New York, I took an early opportunity of visiting |
him, in company with my friend, Madame Blavatsky.
The medium began by asking us to write the names of three |||
or four deceased friends on slips of paper which he tore |)r
before our eyes from a fresh sheet of writing-paper. After | i
writing the names, we folded the papers up tightly, at his j I
request, and laid them in a little heap in front of us on ill
the table. Mr. Watkins then stirred the pellets round with | j
the point of a pencil, in order that we might not be able to jjj
distinguish one from the other. He requested me to take |l
one in my hand, and to fix it on the point of his pencil; then j j
holding it at arm’s length he said immediately, “ This is the | |
name of a sister of yours in the spirit-world, Clara Kisling- j j
bury, is that so ? ” Opening the pellet, I found the name to Ijj
be correct; his statement that it was the name of my sister j i
was equally so. The names on the three other pellets were | I
rightly given, as well as the degree of relationship, includ- | |
ing that of my maternal grandmother. I observed that Mr. j |
Watkins had more difficulty in finding the name of one who M
was a friend, not connected with my family. He said at j j
once, “This is the name of some one not a relation. I | |
cannot see it so clearly ; but he finally succeeded in giving it | I
correctly. II
In the case of Madame Blavatsky, one of the names I
written by her was in Russian character, and the medium j j
made several unsuccessful attempts to pronounce it, but at jjj
last declared it to be too “ crack-jaw,” and said he would try j j
to get it writteu. He requested Madame Blavatsky to place I I
her hand on a slate, under which he laid a small crumb of j |
slate-pencil, in the manner of Slade. Mr. Watkins did not I |:
hold the slate. An instant after, on turning up the j I
slate, the appellation, consisting of three names, was found HI
written in full, and in Russian characters, with this curious | I
exception, that one or two letters were exchanged for those |J
of Latin character, having the same phonetic value ; as, for |j|
* Lafontaine’s LfArt da Magnetiser, pa§e 259 et seq.' Paris 1862. dt
instance, an jf, pronounced in Russian v, but written b, was
substituted for the latter. I will revert to this fact
further on.
Mr. Watkins next took two small slates, and placing a
point of pencil between them, held them firmly together at
one end, while I held them at the other. The slate did not
rest upon the table, but was held by us at arm’s length, both
standing. In a few moments one of the slates was covered
on the inner side with writing, signed “Alice Carey.” The
handwriting was not known to me, but was familiar to the
medium, as frequently appearing in his experiments.
I use the word “ experiments” advisedly, for two reasons.
The first is, that Mr. Watkins did not “ sit,” except
momentarily, during the whole hour that we were in his
company, and then more often on the table than elsewhere.
He walked nervously about the room, and occasionally fixed
his eyes on us, with a vacant look, especially when about to
utter the desired name, or to describe something about the
sitter. The second reason is, that Mr. Watkins does not
habitually use the terms commonly accepted by Spiritualists,
neither does he accept unreservedly the usual explanation of
the phenomena, viz., that they are produced by the spirits
of the departed, whose names are signed on the slates. He
boldly volunteered the opinion that they are in many cases
produced by the action of his own spirit, reading (inde¬
pendently of his will or knowledge) that which is latent in
the mind of the sitter, or is immediately projected from it.
He prefers to call the phenomenon “ independent slate¬
writing,” instead of “ spirit-writing.”
In the course of the experiments, Mr. Watkins said that
in each instance, just before the writing began, he felt a
sudden “ drawing” from his whole body, and that he was
unable to articulate distinctly ; as soon as the writing was
finished there was another jerk, and he felt himself again.
One more incident. Mr. Watkins told me to place my
hand on a slate which was lying near me, and on which I
had ascertained that there was nothing written. Mr. Wat¬
kins himself was at that moment lying back in a rocking-
chair at a distance of at least eight feet from me, and talking
to Madame Blavatsky. He ceased speaking for a moment,
and then bidding me turn up the slate, I found it covered
with writing, purporting to be a communication from my
sister Clara, and signed with her name. The writing was
quite unlike that signed “Alice Carey,” but neither was it
like mine or my sister’s. The names of two other relatives
which I had previously written on the pellets were men¬
tioned, but not those of others equally dear to me, and of the
same degree of relationship, and who were equally in my
mind, but were not written down.
The above experiences are to my mind suggestive of a
theory which will explain the discrepancies in the spelling
of the Russian name. I leave the application to those
whom it may concern, and who are more qualified than my¬
self to form correct conclusions. Let it be borne in mind,
however, that the medium himself avers that, except on rare
occasions, and those special to himself, that is, when not
sitting for the public, he has not only no evidence of the
agency of departed spirits, but that there is no necessity for
the hypothesis, nothing ever occurring which could not be
performed by the action of his own spirit, working inde¬
pendently of his body, and seeking in the psychic emana¬
tions of those present the information (?) he is enabled to
give them.
I have the several slates in my possession, and shall bring
them with me to Great Russell-street, where I hope soon to
greet my friends face to face.
New York, Oct. 26th, 1877.
Fbom: Natal Mr. J. M. Peebles will go to Cape Town, and before
returning to the United States he will visit England.
On Sunday next, Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a trance address in the
Trades’ Hall, Glasgow, at 6.30 p.xn. ; subject, “Spiritualism: The
Reality of its Facts, and the Utility of its ’Philosophy.” On Monday
evening, at the Spiritualists’ Hall, Trongate, at eight o’clock, he will
answer questions from the audience.
The fortnightly winter meetings of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists begin next Monday evening at eight o’clock, at 38, Great Russell-
street, London, when Mr. Stainton-Moses and the Rev. T. Colley will
read papers on new developments of form manifestations. We hope to
see a good attendance,
ttov. 9, 187?.
T It E S PI It ITU Alii ST.
223
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
Last Thursday night the opening meeting of this session of the
Psychological Society was held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-
square, London, under the presidency of Mr. Serjeant Cox. There was
a full attendance, and among those present were—Mr. William..Crookes,
F.R.S., Mrs. Crookes, Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D., Mr. and Mrs.
Stack, Professor Plumptre, Mr. George Harris, F.S.A., Mr. C. C.
Massey, the Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Mrs. and Miss Jacquet,
Mr. Pickersgill, Mr. and Mrs. "William Tebb, and Major S. R. I. Owen,
F.L.S.
THE FOURTH SESSIONAL ADDRESS BY THE PRESIDENT.
Mr. Serjeant Cox read the following presidential address:—The
fourth session of the Psychological Society of Great Britain commences
amid circumstances that cannot fail to give a new interest and import¬
ance to the Society, to attract to its proceedings the attention of a larger
public, and to enlist the sympathies of many by whom its objects have
been hitherto unknown or misunderstood.
SOUL, OR NO SOUL?
The questions, “ Soul, or no Soul? ” “Is Psychology a real or sham
science?” “Are we associated for the investigation of a myth, or of a
very real existence ? ” have been of late actively agitated by both speech
and pen. Thus has this great subject been brought under the notice
of the educated public to an extent and in a manner never attempted
before. In the Nineteenth Century the question of “ Soul, or no Soul ”
has been distinctly put forward for formal discussion and comment.
Thinkers of all shades of opinion were invited to express their views.
The pages of the periodical were fairly opened to all sides. Divines,
statesmen, lawyers, scientists, economists, philosophers, accepted the
invitation, and took part in this modern symposium. For several months
the question has thus been ably argued from the theological, the positivist,
the materialist, the physical, and the metaphysical point of view, and all
that the best thinkers of our time could say about it argumentatively
has been said—and well said ?
But with what result? All who followed this discussion from its
commencement to its close must confess that it left the question at least
as obscure as before, and the reader more perplexed than ever. This
effort to solve the problem has had no other effect than to shake the
confidence of the believer, and to leave the doubting more doubtful.
Psychologists cordially welcomed the proposal of this controversy,
and have followed it with eager interest. For my own part, having
read every word of it, I have closed it with something more than disap¬
pointment—with the profound conviction that, if this be all the best
minds among us can adduce to show the existence of soul in man and
its survival after the death of the body, Huxley and Tyndall are
right, we are but automata, and the soul a superstition to be consigned
to the limbo of vanities; but, as a fact in nature, to be taken into
account by science, or for any practical purpose, it must be received as
are other poetical fancies. The entire of this memorable debate was
argumentative. It was a series of inventions of reasons, more or less
ingenious, why soul ought to be, and may possibly be, but without a
solitary proof, or even an attempt to prove, that it actually is. The
familiar appeal to man’s hopes and aspirations—to his longing after
immortality, and the injustice that must be if there were no future to
redress the wrongs of the present—were reproduced with eloquence and
power, but no answer was attempted to the adverse facts adduced by
the equally earnest advocates of materialism. The science of psycho¬
logy—the science of the soul—was scarcely recognised. As I have
said, this battle of words left the doubting more doubtful, and must
have shaken the faith of many who had a firm faith before, because the
doubts had never before been so distinctly presented to them.
This fiasco has invested the society with a new importance, and its
proceedings with a new interest, because the great work thus attempted
and failed to be done by argument, will be seen more clearly than ever to
devolve upon ourselves, who prefer to adopt the more scientific process
of proof by observation and experiment. The metaphysicians having
so lamentably failed to sustain by argument alone the existence of a
soul in man, the way is opened for the psychologists to prove that
existence, if they can, not argumentatively and by appeals to the inner
consciousness, but by reference to facts and phenomena, and by the pro¬
duction of objective evidence accumulating to positive proof. Psychology
has not yet received its due recognition, because the public mind has
been content to accept the being of soul upon dogmatic assertion, or
metaphysical abstractions, and it was happy in its unreasoned faith.
But the materialists have rudely disturbed that faith. The shaken con¬
fidence can never now be restored by argument alone. Nothing but a
defeat of the materialists with their own weapons will suffice to replace
faith by knowledge. Henceforth the desire will be to say, “ I know.”
It will not be enough to say, “ I trust.” The battle of the soul must be
fought with the same instruments with which science has maintained the
existence of magnetism. The last and greatest endeavour to prove soul
by argument against the disproof of it by fact, as is the contention of
the scientists, having conspicuously failed, there remains for the student
only the questions—Are there such facts ? Are there psychical pheno¬
mena which prove the existence of soul by the same process as the
existence of any other fact is proved—by the evidence of the senses for
the phenomena, and by inquiry into the sources of those phenomena as
reasonably to be deduced from their nature and character ?
But the society is still more indebted to Professor Tyndall for having,
in his recent brilliant address at Birmingham, so distinctly defined the
province of psychology and the consequent work that devolves upon
psychologists. True, that the object and scheme of our science has been
persistently stated in our prospectuses, in our addresses, and in all our
proceedings; but it has received only a partial public recognition. So
(j powerfully is even the scientific mind prepossessed with the notion that
>! psychology is a purely metaphysical study, to be evolved from men’s
) i inner consciousness and pursued by logic alone, without reference to
(i facts, that a proposal to pursue it, as all other sciences are pursued, by
) | observation of phenomena and experimental investigation of facts, has
/1 been looked upon rather as a heresy to be put down than as a rational
I claim to be gravely considered.
|| THE PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED ONLY BY FACTS.
I Therefore it is that our gratitude is due to Professor Tyndall for
}| having directed public attention, by a statement intelligible to all,
j | couched in language the most attractive, and enlivened by illustrations
) | the most apt, to the precise point in the mechanism of man at which
j physiology ends and psychology begins. We thank him, also, for the
(| admirable clearness with which he defines the proper province of
) | psychology. True, he tells us that in his judgment and in that of the
< i scientists generally, psychology is a science without a subject—the base-
| (| less fabric of a vision—-a poetical conception merely. But he does not
! /1 disguise from himself, nor from his audience, the true difficulty in which
! || his brilliant argument involves him. He does not deny that there may
|)! be something more in man than physiology reveals. He says only that
|)| science has found no proof of it; and he declares that, if soul be, it
|\ | must be proved, not by dogmatic assertion, not by conjecture, not by
i )i desire, not by authority, but by facts.
i (I This is precisely what has been said by the Psychological Society,
j \ I and it was to perform the task of collecting and investigating the facts
:) | and phenomena of mind and soul that the society was established. It
j (i has by three years anticipated the challenge now publicly made by
j| Professor Tyndall, for we cordially concur in his contention that soul
i|| is not a question of sentiment, desire, or dogma, but of fact, to be
I (| decided like other questions of fact. We take up the glove the eloquent
i }j Professor has thrown down. We accept his challenge. At this point
\l\ we join issue with him. We have said, again and again, and we repeat
\{\ now, that we propose to prove the existence of soul as a fact, by
fl evidence of precisely the same kind as that by which Professor Tyndall
i (| proves the existence of magnetism and electricity. If such proof
I | should be found to fail, then we will sorrowfully admit that Professor
i) j Tyndall and the scientists are right—that soul is a myth—psychology
11! a sham science, and man a machine merely.
11| But not to do him an injustice, I must cite Professor Tyndall himself.
|(j The argument is conducted with exceeding subtlety. He bases it
| (i upon the now admitted theory of the conservation of energy—which
j) | may be described as meaning that this world is a ball composed of a
111 certain quantity of matter incessantly moved by some energy (or force)
j | j existing witbin or applied from without. Of this mass of matter no
| j particle is ever lost. It may and does change its forms continually,
| | but there is not now an atom less than there was yesterday and will be
| | to-morrow. So with the energy, or cause of motion, that permeates
j | every part and particle. That, too, is not lost; it disappears only to
I I reappear in another form, presenting itself in other modes of motion,
111 insomuch that one form of motion can be converted into another form
I |i of motion by the skill of the scientist, as many have seen in his own
! (! inimitable experiments in the lecture-room of the Royal Institution.
! [j This principle of transferred instead of extinguished force shown in
j 11 inorganic matter the Professor applies to organic structure and finds it
| | there also. The muscles work—that is, they generate force. How ?
(j By consuming a portion of themselves. It is the force stored up in the
| I blood that is conveyed from the arm to the load it moves. The nerves
I j convey the will to the muscles and set them in motion. But what is
II the will that thus moves the nerves ? What is the “ I ” that is conscious
| (! of the command, and of the performance of that command ? That is
| m the question upon which the physicists are at issue with the psycho-
II i logists. That is the province of psychology. Professor Tyndall has
j ( | made this clear to the whole world. He says :—
jr|! “ The warrant of science extends only to the statement that the terror,
i ) I hope, sensation, and calculation of Lange’s merchant are psychical phenomena
i (j produced by, or associated with, the molecular motions set up by the waves of
| (i light in a previously prepared brain. But the scientific view is not without
|) j its own difficulties. We here find ourselves face to face with a problem which
j') | is the theme, at the present moment, of profound and subtle controversy.
III What is the casual connection, if any, between the objective and sub-
| ) I jective—between molecular motions and states of consciousness ? My answer
I j j is, I know not, nor have I as yet met anybody who knows. It is no explana-
I Si tion to say that the objective and subjective effects are two sides of one and
j (I the same phenomenon. Why should the phenomenon have two sides ? This
j (l is the very core of the difficulty. There are plenty of molecular motions
i) ! which do not exhibit this two-sidedness. Does water think or feel when it
j) I runs into frost-ferns upon a window-pane ? If not, why should the molecular
j | j motion of the brain be yoked to this mysterious companion—consciousness ?
1)1 We can present to our minds a coherent picture of the physical processes—the
j ji stirring of the brain, the thrilling of the nerves, the discharging of the muscles,
111 and all the subsequent mechanical motions of the oi-ganism. But we can present
i (i no picture of the process whereby consciousness emerges either as a necessary
i )| link or as an accidental by-product of this series of actions. Yet it certainly
| > | does emerge — molecular motion produces consciousness. The reverse
i | i process of the production of motion by consciousness is equally unpresentable
j (1 to the mind. We are here, in fact, upon the boundary line of our intellectual
i (i powers, where the ordinary canons of science fail to extricate us from our
f | difficulties. If we are true to these canons, we must deny to subjective
i ) i phenomena all influence on physical processes. The latter mnst be regarded
|(j as complete in themselves. Physical science offers no justification for the
I ) | notion that molecules can be moved by states of consciousness; and it fur-
I >| nishes just as little countenance to the conclusion that states of consciousness
i |i can be generated by molecular motion. Frankly stated, we have here to deal
j (I with facts almost as difficult to be seized mentally as the idea of a soul. And
i (; if you are content to make your‘soul’a poetic rendering of a phenomenon
j ) j which refuses the yoke of ordinary mechanical laws, I, for one, would not
i j object to this exercise of ideality. Amid all our speculative uncertainty,
i1 there is one practical point as clear as the day—namely, that the brightness
224
Nov. 9, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
and the usefulness of life, as 'well as its darkness and disaster, depend to a i)
great extent upon our own use or abuse of this miraculous organ. We now :/
stand face to face with the final problem. It is this—Are the brain and the ! (
moral and intellectual processes known to be associated with the brain—and, I (
as far as our experience goes, indissolubly associated—subject to the laws jj|
which we find paramount in physical nature ? Is the will of man, in other ||
words, free, or are it and nature equally t bound fast in fate ? ’ ” | (
This, then, is the conclusion of our most famous, most eloquent, and |
most accomplished teacher of physical science—that consciousness is a j
condition of organisation ; that the conscious self is only the aggre- ] /
gation of various states of consciousness; that “you” and “I’’ are
nothing more than masses of brain and nerves : that it is an unsolved, i!
and probably insoluble, mystery how brain is conscious, although bone i)
and muscle are not conscious, and by what process the sense of personal | (
identity and the conviction of individuality are established. He sees j
nothing, feels nothing, perceives nothing, other than brain, therefore ij
he knows nothing, and, not knowing, he dares not affirm. With this ff
negation he bids us be content. But, if we cannot be content to be j
merely brain, he graciously bids us amuse ourselves with a poetical j
conception of soul in addition to brain and make ourselves as happy as |
we may in this fool’s paradise. IJ
The argument is fairly stated, and boldly as fairly. Let us commend jj
his moral courage, and, may I add, strive to emulate it by the like i1
bravery. | ]
THE REALITY OF THE SOUL PROVED BY PHENOMENA. j j
Psychology joins issue with him in all of this. We say that brain ij
and nerve are not ‘® conscious.” The nerves convey molecular motions ; 11
they do not feel them. The brain has no sense of injury to itself, jl
Even if it were self-conscious, a combination of consciousnesses will not j {
make individuality, that is to say, will not give us memory, nor j
account for our knowledge that the consciousness of to-day and twenty j
years ago was the same. How can that be the work of a structure, |i
every particle of which has changed during those twenty years 1 But I j
we do not rest our case upon a mere denial of the scientist conclusions i (
from some assumed functions of brain and nerve. We do emphatically i
dispute those inferences. We do deny that there are no proofs of an |(
individual entity other than the brain. We boldly assert that there is I
evidence, abundant and cogent, that something exists, as a distinct and j |
definite entity other than the brain, which constitutes the individual j |
‘‘ I ” and “ you,”—call it soul, or by any other name. We assert that j
this individual entity exists as a real being capable to act, and often !)
expressing itself in action upon the external world, beyond the range i j
of the bodily structure and without its agency. We assert that this is |(
demonstrated by a long series of phenomena, many of which are j j
familiar to all of us, therefore uncontested by any. Some are of less | (
frequent occurrence and, therefore, are subjected to some doubtings; jj
while others, again, being rare and of strange aspect, are met with in- j
credulous denial—by those who have never seen them. j(
Upon this issue psychology takes her stand as opposed to materialism, j
I use this term materialism with reluctance, only because I know of none i
that' would convey the same meaning to my audience. But it is an i (
inaccurate and misleading term. It means the recognition of matter as jj
constituting the perceptible universe, and in this sense we are all }/
materialists. It is used here to describe the doctrine of those who deny j
that there is any intelligent existence that is not molecular, and, when j j
applied especially to the mechanism of man, that the structure is com- j j
posed of anything more or other than the brain and the body that are i j
visible to us. The employment of this term at once raises the question, j
“ What is matter —and thus, as all are not agreed upon that point, U
an opening is made for a fight under false colours on one side or jj
on both. j j
Some use the term “ matter ” in a very vague sense—as being what- j(
ever can be mentally conceived. Science demands a stricter definition, j j
Whatever is perceptible to us is to us “ matter.” I mean perceptible to j j
any sense. As molecular structure is the only combination of atoms j (
perceptible to us, so “matter” is whatever is made of molecules. All jj
other combinations of atoms, being wholly imperceptible to us, are to us j j
non-material. But not, therefore, do they the less exist, nor is their j (
existence necessarily unknown to us. We can learn their existence, j j
and something of their qualities, by observing their action upon the j)
molecular matter that is perceptible to us. j j
The term soul is open to a difference of definition, but not to the same j j
extent. There are infinite varieties of conception as to what soul is or !/
may be; but there is no difference as to the thing intended for discussion, j j
or as to the precise issue that is raised. It is agreed on both sides that I j
the question of soul is—if there be in the mechanism of man an entity j /
—a being—a structure—not formed of molecules, and, therefore, not jj
perceptible by any human sense, but formed of some other of the infinite I >
atomic combinations with which creation is doubtless thronged—and j j
which non-material because non-molecular thing is the man—is the jj
self—is I—is you—and of which thing the molecular body is merely the j j
material mechanism clothing that soul—the necessary medium for its j(
communication with the molecularly constructed world which is its jj
present dwelling. i j
THE IGNORING OF UNWELCOME FACTS. j)
This is our contention. Let there be no mistake about it. This is ij
the doctrine of psychology. If it be not a true doctrine, psychology is i (
a false science. Professor Tyndall has raised the question fairly. He I j
denies the existence of soul, and consequently of the science that relates j j
to it. But he is unfair in this—that in his splendid discourse he tells j(
his audience the truth, but not the whole truth. He says that soul is i j
merely a poetical fancy—that there is no proof of its being—that he and i)
his brother scientists can discover nothing beyond nerves and brain, and j(
can find in these a sufficient cause for all they see of mental action. He jj
does not go on to tell us what he must well know to be the truth—that, j}
although he and his brother physicists can find in their dissecting rooms
and laboratories no tangible proof of the being of soul, there are
phenomena—some undisputed and indeed incontestable; some con¬
tested, but asserted by observers as competent as himself—facts that are
wholly inconsistent with his theory of materialism, and impossible to be
explained by it. As a truthful man, he should have told his audience that
there is a numerous, an intelligent, an observant, a reflective, a calm
judging body of men who have arrived at less degrading conclusions
as to man’s structure—conclusions not based, as he would represent,
upon unproved dogma, or on our eager hopes, or high aspirations, but
arrived at by precisely the same process as that which has conducted
him to his discoveries—the process of observation and experiment—by
the noting of facts and phenomena, and tracing the existence and the
characteristics of imperceptible non-molecular agents in their effects
upon things that, being molecular, are perceptible to the human senses.
The professor may differ from the psychologists in their conclusions, and
he may dispute their facts; but it is neither fair nor generous to ignore
them, and to treat his theory, as if there were no other side to it than the
melancholy one he presented to us—of automatism and annihilation.
In all former controversies upon this and kindred questions the
scientists have protested, with reason and justice, against the practice of
combating facts with d 'priori arguments, and answering evidence by
opinion. Hitherto they have echoed the scornful exclamation of
G-alileo, “But it moves for all that,” Opinions and arguments may be
suppressed by logic or by persecution; but a fact is immortal. It is
still a fact, though all the world refuses to recognise it. (Applause.)
Its existence does not depend upon what this man or that man thinks or
desires ; no amount of denunciation, or protest, or ridicule, or neglect,
no law or abuse of law, no prosecutions nor imprisonments, no judge
and no jury, no prejudice, no prepossessions can put it down, or ex¬
tinguish it, or make it other than it is—a fact.
THE DOGMATISM OF CERTAIN ALLEGED MEN OF SCIENCE
Yet, strange to say, the scientists, who were the first to proclaim this
great truth when their facts were denounced by dogmatism, are now the
foremost to wield this weapon against other asserted facts that conflict,
or appear to conflict, with their own dogmas. “ We have come to the
conclusion,” they say in effect, “ that soul is a myth—a dream—that, as
it cannot be, it is not. There is no place for it in the human organism
that we can find—there is nothing in man’s mechanism that our theories
cannot explain. Theology teaches soul and immortality, but theology is
a visionary creed. These are but harmless dreams of poets and senti¬
mentalists, and so they may pass with a contemptuous smile. The
psychologists, who hitherto have asserted soul from their inner con¬
sciousness, and supported it by argument of possibility and probability
alone, we can afford to treat as learned visionaries. But otherwise it is
with those who dare now to assert that they can prove the existence of
soul by facts and phenomena, precisely as our own sciences are proved,
and who challenge us to the examination. If they are right we are
wrong. If they can produce a tithe of the evidence they boast—if
they can prove but a fraction of their assertions, our doctrine of
materialism is scattered to the winds. That would not much concern
us ; but we shall be discredited with it, and the laugh of the world
will be against us. How shall this catastrophe be averted ? There
is but one course for us. We must deny the facts. To discredit the
facts we must discredit the witnesses. We must give them bad names
—fools of their senses, deluders, deluded. If we are reminded that
many of them are men of science and accomplished observers, or men
of business, or men trained to try and weigh evidence, in all respects
our equals and in many respects our superiors, we must declare that
they are suffering from ‘ diluted insanity,’ the victims of preposses¬
sion, the dupes of their senfees, that they do not see with their eyes
nor hear with their ears. If it be said that the outside world may
possibly be inclined to listen to them, our course is clear. We must
vilify the subject, and make psychology unpopular. We must stigmatise
the seekers after soul as rogues and vagabonds—we must proclaim the
believers in soul insane or idiots. If social persecution fails, then
legal prosecution, relying on the prejudice and prepossession we have
invoked. If we cannot put down that irrepressible pseudo-science
psychology, we can at least limit the number of psychologists; we can
deter others from becoming its disciples, and scare them frominvestigation
of facts and phenomena that threaten the fabric of our doctrine of ma¬
terialism and the permanency of our personal fame. True, there is some
awkwardness in their challenge to us to see and experiment for our¬
selves. But let us be equal to the occasion. We have only to contend
by argument dpriori that, according to our notions of nature, the facts
cannot be, and the conclusion is clear; therefore they are not facts, and
therefore we need not give time and thought to their investigation. We
deny soul to be, and therefore we should be simply discrediting ourselves
by looking for it. If we saw, we would rather say our senses deceived
us, than confess that we had come to wrong conclusions upon insuffi¬
cient premisses. Be assured, it is easier to put down opposition by
‘ Booh, pooh,’ and ‘ Fie, fie,’ than by evidence and discussion.” (Ap¬
plause.)
AGNOSTICISM.
Daring the past year psychology has been publicly challenged by
another philosophy—not new, though taking a new name. It calls
itself “ Agnosticism,” but it is intimately allied with materialism. It
asserts that we have, and can have, no knowledge but that which the
senses bring to us; and that even the knowledge so conveyed is
dependent upon so many conditions that it must be accepted with hesi¬
tation. So far the agnostics are right. But they proceed to deduce
from this, that whatever does not admit of sensual proof is to be rejected
as unknowable, as well as unknown. -They, too, fall into the same
fallacy as the materialists. They forget that there are other means by
which knowledge may be obtained. We may learn the existence and
qualities of many things imperceptible to the senses by their action
upon the matter the senses are formed to perceive, and our knowledge
Nov. 9, 187?.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
225
of these imperceptible forces is as real and practical as if we had direct
intelligence of them through the senses. The agnostics say that psy¬
chology is merely a dream, because the things with which it professes
to concern itself—mind and soul—being imperceptible by the senses,
are unknowable. The answer of psychology to agnosticism is that,
although mind and soul cannot be seen, heard, felt, or tasted, their
existence is proved by their operation upon the organic molecular struc¬
tures our senses are formed to perceive. The agnostics say that they
can recognise no natural forces or laws than those which direct and
control inorganic matter. Psychology contends that there are forces
and laws directing and controlling organic structure difterent from and
often opposing the inorganic laws; that these can be discovered by
observation of their action upon that structure, and the intelligence thus
obtained is knowledge as real as any that the senses bring to us of
external molecular existence; and, therefore, that psychology is as real
and soundly based a science as any other, if only it be rightly pursued—
by observation and experiment and ingenious conjecture.
Such is the precise condition of the controversy between materialism
and psychology at the commencement of this fourth session of the
society. But such misrepresentations of our scheme are no longer
practicable. Our position is now distinctly defined for us by Professor
Tyndall himself. He has drawn the precise line at which physical
science confesses that there is an end to her researches, and where
psychological science proclaims with pride that she begins hers. Of
course, if he is right, if there be nothing in the mechanism of man but
the material molecular structure, we must confess that our science is as
baseless as the scientists declare it. The writers in the Nineteenth
Century have exhausted intellectual skill in an endeavour to prove, by
argument alone, that soul exists as part of the human structure—a
veritable being other than the molecular body and separable from it.
But it must be admitted that they have done nothing more than prove
that soul is an aspiration of humanity, that it may be, that it ought to
be, but not that it is. To prove that it is has consequently become the
proper business of this society. We take our stand upon a clear and
definite platform, with a distinct and definite duty. Our programme is
contained in a few sentences. Are there any facts that prove, the exist¬
ence of soul, or point to its probable existence 1 If soul cannot be
proved argumentatively, can it be proved experimentally ? It is our
belief that it can. It is our business to prove it, or at least to search for
proofs, and try their worth, and trace the conclusions to which those
truths conduct.
THE POSITION OP THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
With this great and glorious mission before us, we ask all who approve
its object—all who desire to know what they are, what they will be—to
promote them by joining the society.
In accordance with this grand purpose of our existence, our first
object is the gathering together from all authentic sources reports of
facts and phenomena that proceed, or appear to proceed, from the action
of that something other than the material mechanism—that intelligent
force—call it mind or soul—call it mental impulse or psychic force—by
which the material mechanism of the body is moyed and directed.
Already we have brought together a considerable number of very
interesting and valuable reports of such phenomena, which we are about
to print, not merely for reading and preservation, but in the hope that
other observers may be induced to send them still more abundantly. It
would be impossible to exaggerate their value, for they are the solid
foundations of fact upon which alone a secure science of psychology can
be built up, and with which alone we can hope to combat successfully the
dark and degrading creed of materialism. Thus only can we hope to
restore by science the belief in soul which science has shattered. So
far our work has proceeded successfully. Seeing how high and im¬
portant to the welfare of the world is the object after which we strive,
this society, although numerous enough for economical work, has not
yet enlisted the support which would enable it to carry on its great
work as it deserves to be pursued. Our meetings show no lack of
interest in it, for this room is usually crowded. Our papers are various
and instructive, and our discussions vigorous. In these respects we
compare advantageously with any other scientific society. But we desire
to enlist more members that our usefulness may be extended much
more. We should like to print our proceedings, but cannot without the
funds that numbers only can supply. We have one experimental com¬
mittee. We should have three or four occupied in different branches
of the inquiry. But this would be attended with greater cost than we
can afford. We ought to print all our papers. But those only can now
be printed of which the writer pays the expenses. If our numbers
were doubled, it is not too much to say that our usefulness would be
quadrupled.
PREPOSSESSED WITNESSES.
In pursuing our researches and experiments, we are not unconscious
of the difficulties that attend them. We recognise to the full the in¬
fluence of “ prepossession” and prejudice so powerfully asserted by Dr.
Carpenter. To none is their disturbing effect upon evidence better
known than to myself. It is daily under my notice. Witnesses, the
most honest in intent, the most truthful in design, see, or fail to see,
according to prepossession. They saw with their prepossessed minds
and not with their natural eyes. They looked not to see what they
could find, but to find something they hoped to find, and so they found
it. (Applause.) They desired not to see something, and they did not
see it, though plain before their eyes. Peering through the fog of pre¬
judice they could see nothing at all, or nothing clearly. I repeat again
and again the wise saying that cannot be too often repeated, a Men do
not believe what is true, but what they wish to be true.” The senses are
the slaves of the mind, and the mind, as we discover in dream when it
is unaided by the senses, cannot tell us what is objective and what is
subjective, if the impression is brought from without or created within.
It is a humiliating truth that educated minds are more the victims of
j| prepossession than the untaught mind, whose perceptions are often
singularly acute and accurate. But of all minds the scientific mind is
the most liable to be enslaved and blinded by prepossession, because it
(| is most preoccupied with preformed opinions and theories. There is not
)i a more notable instance of this than Dr. Carpenter himself, whose em-
) | phatic warnings to beware of it are doubtless the result of self-consciousness,
i (Hear, hear.) An apter illustration of this human weakness there could
) i not be. The characteristic feature of his mind is prepossession. This
}\ weakness is apparent in all his works. It matters not what the subject,
SI if once he has formed an opinion upon it, that opinion so prepossesses
) f his whole mind that nothing adverse to it can find admission there. It
Iti affects alike his senses and his judgment. The effect of prepossession
[Jj upon the senses is either to paralyse them, so that they cannot perceive
!|! anything that conflicts with that prepossession, or to distort every object
! (| presented, or to make the victim perceive a great deal more than is
|)| actually presented to him. Dr. Carpenter is by no means a solitary
I instance of this mental blindness and obliquity, produced by prepos-
I session—he is only one of the most conspicuous. They who are familiar
I with our courts of law are aware that of all witnesses the least, trust-
| worthy are scientific witnesses—experts, as they are called. It is a
vnlgar error that attributes less of honesty to them than to other wit-
|)| nesses. Their untruthfulness is, in fact, the result of prepossession.
They go into the witness-box possessed with theories, and, unconsciously
|< 1 perhaps, they measure the facts by their theories. They cannot see
I) | facts that tell against them; they transmute or magnify whatever fact
|) I supports their preformed views. So it is with Dr. Carpenter. Nohody
i) | will deny his honesty. It is impossible to deny that he is the slave of
l)| prepossession and prejudice. Psychology, from its very nature, is
m peculiarly subject to the illusory effects of prepossession, and therefore
|) i psychologists will do well to take warning by so eminent an example as
i) | that of Dr. Carpenter, and, in pursuing their researches, to be ever on
i 11 guard against prepossessions which blind their eyes, equally with those .
|§i that distort, deceive, and multiply.
I'| THE WORK OP THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
| i The work of the last session extends over a very wide range of
!h subjects. Mr. Massey favoured us with a paper on “ Some Applica-
i)| tions of the Theory of Unconscious Cerebration.” To Professor
I) | Plumptre we were indebted for two very interesting and instructive
|'| essays on “The Human Voice considered Psychologically.” Mr.
|) | Charles Bray contributed a thoughtful paper on “ Cerebral Psycho-
m logy,” and another on “Natural Law, Automatic Mind, and Uncon-
j;; scions Intelligence.” One of our honorary members, Mr. James Croll,
i(j F.B,.S., favoured us with perhaps the ablest paper ever read in this
i[ room, on “The Psychological Aspects of Molecular Motion,” which all
1 < j who did not hear should read. To Mr. George Harris we were in-
! \ \ debted for a treatise on “ Certain Psychological Peculiarities observable
|) j on the Hereditary Transmission of Endowments and Qualities.” “ A
i l j .Record of Abnormal Personal Experiences,” communicated through,
j) j Mr. C. C. Massey, excited much discussion. A remarkable paper “ On
j) the Phenomena of Artificial Somnambulism and Electro-biology,”
! was contributed by Mr. E. H. Valter; and your President read two
|) papers, one on “ Some more Phenomena of Sleep and Dream,” and the
i) other on “The Psychology of Wit and Humour.” This is a goodly
| \ | list, and, thanks to the liberality of the writers, several of them have
j been printed, and may be read with profit. We believe that the
1) | fruitful past is the promise of an equally fertile future.
I \ | The subjects treated of during the last session have paved the way
j)| for others of still greater moment, which we hope to bring under dis-
j.) j cussion in the course of the present session. To promote that which is
i j ] the principal purpose of the society—the communication of personal
|) i experiences of psychological facts and phenomena—the Council has
j 11 determined to devote some meetings to discussion alone, without the
iflii introduction of written papers; and some very important subjects will
|)i thus be treated. Memory, the Will, Dream, Somnambulism, Insanity,
!) I Trance, and other abnormal conditions of the human mechanism, claim
[f] to be considered thus, where facts may be contributed by those who take
j)i part in the debate, and the theories of those who have thought about
i j | them may be tried and proved by the free interchange of opinion.
;)! With our prospectus before the world, it is, perhaps, scarcely neces-
i) sary to say that this society has nothing to do with any ism of any
| j | kind. It belongs to no creed, nor sect, nor party. It is not realist,
I); nor idealist, nor materialist, nor spiritualist, nor positivist, nor
||| agnostic. It is only an earnest and honest seeker after the truth, the
m whole truth, and nothing Vmt the truth. Its object is to learn what
i) I man is, what mind is, what soul is. It inquires if the be-all and the
j).j end-all is here “ upon this bank and shoal of time,” if we must “leap
|(| the life to come,” or may look to the hereafter as a grand certainty,
n | I hope we have, all of us, the courage of our opinions, even as Pro-
i 5 i fessor Tyndall has. As psychologists, we investigate every fact and
| (! - phenomenon, reported to us on good authority, that has an apparent
]) { connection with the mind or soul of man—regardless alike of abuse,
j)j of ridicule, and of sneers. But it must be well understood that our
j I researches are thus limited. We do not concern ourselves at all with
|) | the supernatural. It is not within our province. We list to nature
I j only—to the living man—to the actual world. If we cannot find in
j) | these the facts and phenomena that teach us what mind is, if soul
|) | be, and what it is, then it is no part of our mission as a society to seek
fa further for them. Nor is there need to do so. Already we have found
]) | an ever-widening field for research in the world that is about us—facts
||| full of interest—phenomena replete with instruction—vast in number
| i and variety, observed by hundreds of those with whom we are dwelling
i) i and in daily intercourse, but which have remained unreported and un-
| i known because there has been no centre to which they might be con-
111 tributed and no machinery for their collection, preservation, and colla-
|) | tion for the advancement of science.
j)j That need is now provided for; and ere long it will be seen hOw
1 1 plentiful is the supply of information, and what overwhelming evidence
226
TH ]3 SPIEITUALIST.
T^ov. 6, 1877.
there is that psychology is a true science—based upon as broad and
secure a foundation of fact as are any of the physical sciences.
Again, I invite the active co-operation of all who are not content with
the position publicly assigned to man by the scientists in the great and
good work this society is formed to prosecute ; of seeking if science
may not restore man to the position from which science has degraded
him. (Applause.)
At the close of the reading of the paper, a vote of thanks to the Pre¬
sident for his address, was carried amid loud applause.
DR. CARPENTER CALLED TO ACCOUNT.
Pjrofessor G. Carey Foster, in his presidential address
to Section A of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science, made a remark to the effect that Dr. Carpenter
had not dealt fairly with Mr. Crookes in his criticisms; and
when, in the same address, he spoke highly of Mr. Crookes
as a scientific man, he was greeted with the loudest applause
which followed any portion of his remarks. Dr. Carpenter
is very much irritated that his assertions about Mr. Crookes
are not accepted, so has written a most abusive letter there¬
upon, which is published in last week’s Nature (edited by
Mr. J. Norman Lockyer, F.R.S.), where also are letters of a
more or less warm character from Professor Carey Foster,
Mr. A. R. Wallace, and Mr. Crookes. In short, a free fight
all round is going on in that journal.
Dr. Carpenter is so devoid of accurate knowledge about
the facts and phenomena of Spiritualism and mesmerism,
that we have not thought his books worth the space a review
of them would occupy, nor has any one of his extraordinary
theories been considered of sufficient weight by the experienced
to be seriously argued. Nevertheless, by uttering plenty of
abuse of psychology and its students, he pleases the unin¬
formed public, and obtains their applause ; and being Regis¬
trar of London University, and an ex-member of the Council
of the Royal Society, he is a representative scientific man,
whose abusive utterances on a subject he does not understand
are not raising the scientific world in the estimation of the
many thousands of people acquainted with the facts.
He recently printed statements derogatory to the character
of a lady in private life, the wife of an English barrister, and
made a rambling apology for so doing m The Athenceum;
he has also printed remarks derogatory to the character of
M. Adolphe Didier, a gentleman residing at Kensington, re¬
spected by all who know him; and altogether, if Dr. Car¬
penter’s scientific brethren do not wish him to be believed
to be their mouthpiece, it is high time they should make
that circumstance known. We believe him to be sincere in his
utterances, but the reason they have no weight with the
informed is, that he is so completely blinded by his dominant
ideas, prepossessions, and strong power of imagination.
The following is an extract from the letter of Mr.
Crookes:—
The chief harden of Dr. Carpenter’s song is that “ Mr. Crookes has another
side to his mind, which makes Mr. Crookes the Spiritualist almost a different
person from Mr. Crookes the physicist.” I fail to see how the investigation of
.certain phenomena called spiritual can make a man a Spiritualist, even if he
comes to the conclusion that some of the phenomena are not due to fraud. My
position in this matter was clearly stated some years ago, and I ask your per¬
mission to quote the following passages from an article I published in 1871:—
“ I have desired to examine the phenomena from a point of view as strictly
physical as their nature will permit  I wish to be considered in the
position of an electrician at Valentia examining, by means of appropriate
testing instruments, certain electrical currents and pulsations passing through
the Atlantic cable; independently of their causation, and ignoring whether
these phenomena are produced by imperfections in the testing instruments
themselves, whether by earth currents or by faults in the insulation, or
whether they are produced by an intelligent operator at the other end of the
line.”
From this stand-point I have never deviated. Can Dr. Carpenter say that
his position and mine, in respect to the investigation of the phenomena
ascribed to Spiritualism are so very different ? He asserts that he has shown
beyond doubt that it is all imposture. But I would ask, if this was proved to
his satisfaction twenty years ago, why does he still waste valuable time in
interviews and sittings with so-called mediums ? If I am to be censured for
having devoted time to this subject, such censure must be doubly applicable
to a man who commenced the investigation when I was a child, and who
cannot let the subject drop whenever a new “medium” comes in his way.
Does he regard the subject as his own special preserve, and may his demon¬
strations against other explorers in this domain of mystery be looked upon as
the conduct of a gamekeeper towards a suspected poacher ?
To impress on the world that he has no “animus" Dr. Carpenter says he .
“ cordially ” and “ personally congratulated ” me. His words bring vividly
to my mind the conversation, of which, by the by, he has omitted an impor¬
tant part. It was at the annual dinner of the Fellows of the Royal Society, on
November 30, 1875, when the royal modal was awarded me. Dr. Carpenter
accosted me with great apparent cordiality, and said, “Ler us bury the
hatchet! Why should scientific men quarrel ? ” I signified my full accept¬
ance of the offered peace, and great was my surprise soon after to find that,
unmindful of the understood compact, he had exhumed his hatchet, and was
111 dealing me unexpected and wanton strokes, tempered by a certain amount of
i )| half praise, which reminds me of the sort of caressing remonstrance of
j (: Majendie in the pre-anaesthetic days, to the dog which he had on his operating
| ( ) table—“ Taisez vous, pauvre b£te ! ”
i ji In all seriousness, however, I must again ask, what is the meaning of
j j i the “ personal antagonism,” and the persistent attacks which Dr. Carpenter,
i/i for the last six years, has directed against me? In his recently-published
j (| book, in the Nineteenth Century, and in his last letter to you, the key-note
| s] struck in the Quarterly Review six years ago is sustained. We have the
| j i same personalities, the same somewhat stale remark about my double
it! nature, and the same exuberance of that most dangerous and misleading
i (I class of averments, half truths. Dr. Carpenter, indeed, condescends to
j (i admit that I have pursued “ with rare ability and acuteness a delicate
i) i physical investigation, in which nothing is taken for granted without proof
j) : satisfactory to others as well as to himself,” and that I have “earned out
:(i a beautiful inquiry in a manner and spirit worthy of all admirationbut,
j (j after granting so much, he dissembles his love and proceeds to “ kick me
ii j down-stairs.” I am damned with faint praise, and put to rights in such a
I 8 school-masterly style, that I could almost fancy Dr. Carpenter carries a birch
;f| rod concealed in his coat-sleeve. He admits that in an humble and sub-
! (i ordinate sphere I have done useful work, only I must not give myself airs on
ni that account. Dr. Carpenter reminds me of Dr. Johnson defending Sir John
|) i Hawkins, when he was accused of meanness. “ I really believe him,” said
i /1 Johnson, “ to be an honest man at the bottom; but to be sure he is penurious
i (I and he is mean, and it must be owned he has a degree of brutality, and a
! (i tendency to savageness, that cannot easily be defended.”
||jj PSYCHOLOGICAL CURIOSITIES OF ANTI-SPIRITUALISM.
j fj BY ALGERNON JOY, M. INST., C.E.
| | In the November number of Fraser's Magazine, Dr. Car-
| | penter again chalks “Wet Paint” in front of our house,
(j after daubing it all over with a mixture of his own, in such
j fashion that those who have lived in it for thirty or forty years
I fail to recognise their own habitation. But Dr. Carpenter’s
| mixture is not paint. It is only mud, and though very dirty
j mud, will wash or brush off, and leave this “most mis-
| I chievous Epidemic Delusion ” (I copy the capitals from the
| (| original) exactly as it was before.
| | The article is founded, to a great extent, on extracts from
| | Mr. Home’s book and other questionable sources, and on
lj| accounts of tricks played by certain physical mediums. Dr.
| | Carpenter accepts the former as gospel, so long as they answer
111 his purpose, and the latter as all-sufficient proofs that no
j j manifestations are genuine. He informs us that “ the outer
I | world” regards Mr. Home “ as the Arch-priest of this new
111 religion.” If so, the outer world is in a state of crass igno-
| I ranee on the subject. Spiritualists, at least those who really
| I know Mr. Home, have never regarded him as anything but
j || a person largely endowed with the physical properties which
iJf enable disembodied agencies to make use of him.
Dr. Carpenter, unconsciously, no doubt, indulges as freely
Hj as usual in the suggestio falsi, and suppressio veri, through-
| | out the whole article. It is a miracle of special pleading,
! j and appeals to prejudices and feelings; and is totally devoid
j p of anything like either fairness or reasoning. It is perfectly
| | useless to attack Dr. Capenter with facts, however well
i I attested. Unless he can use them in support of, or bend
| | them to, his theories, he remains apparently as unconscious
11| of their inconvenient and impertinent existence as a good
i | mesmeric subject is of the pins run into him, and goes
j j stolidly on his way, obstinately ignorant. So also, it is im-
| | possible to argue with him, because he does not reason.
| )j Mr. Serjeant Cox told us on Thursday last, in his opening
||| address as President of the Psychological Society, that no
I (| one could possibly doubt Dr. Carpenter’s sincerity, or some-
111 thing to that effect. But, there is a certain kindly sympathy
||| and fellow-feeling on some points between these two choice
j|j and master spirits of the age. Each of them has his hard
| )| and fast line. Thus far shaJt thou go, but no further. Each
b | of them sees exactly what suits his purpose, and no more.
j(i Each of them believes implicitly in himself. Both hate
|;| Spiritualism, because it interferes with their preconceived
iff theories. But Spiritualism has more vitality than Cassar
m had; and neither envious Casca, nor yet the traitor Brutus,
|M can let its blood, or even rend its mantle. As might have
||j been expected, Dr. Carpenter reciprocates Mr. Serjeant Cox’s
jjrj politeness, and deals tenderly, nay, almost lovingly, with
j>' him, as one “who seems to have been partly taken in at
\ll first,” but “ has since honestly and vigorously denounced the
| | cheat.”
|>| Dr. Carpenter concludes with a very remarkable apotheosis
iji of his sister, in which the language that he uses figuratively
||| and in derision of Spiritualism—as he understands it—only
j I requires to be taken literally to express the feelings of all
true Spiritualists,
Nov. 9, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
227
INQUIRERS’ SEANCES.
The usual weekly seance was held on Wednesday evening, the 31st
October, at the rooms of the British National Association of Spiritualists,
but not with the usual result.
As Mr. Williams was the medium employed, the sitting was neces¬
sarily held in the dark, all being seated with hands linked round a
table.
The results were almost nil, the only signs of movement extraneous
to the circle being a few light raps, and the tinkling of a bunch of keys
placed on the table by one of the sitters ; these keys were also thrown
towards another person and fell to the floor.
One of the inquirers present was of opinion that the stance was
satisfactory, as showing the bonafides of the medium, who, on the theory
of conjuring, &c., might have performed the same wonders which have
been witnessed so often in his presence under the same conditions.
Wm. Newton.
October 31st, 1877. .  
(ttormponnence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be keptby the writers.']
REINCARNATION.
Priest: “Tell us the number of the Evangelists?”
Little Boy (not quite up to his lesson): “ Five are the six Evangelists—Enoch, Elias 
and the son of Tobias.”
Sir,—Allow me a few words in reply to “D. H. W.,’’ who, in your
number of the 26th October, takes me terribly to task, because in a
private letter, which I am not sorry has found its way to your
columns,* I venture to speak freely upon the spiritual status of those
who scornfully reject, instead of diligently investigating the claims of
the philosophy of reincarnation. It is a pity that a man who can
handle the pen so scholarly should have recourse to jokes, satires, and
impertinences, instead of arguments. In this, however, he is like all
his reincarnation-know-nothing predecessors. Indeed, from his way of
reasoning, I should think he is less of a Spiritualist than a man of
science of the Carpenterian school. I will not follow him in his style of
controversy, but I will only show some of his misconceptions and con¬
tradictions.
He says, “ The food of the spirit is that which sustains its vigour,
and enlarges its powers. (Thanks !) The spirit manifests itself in the
phenomena of intelligence and affection, and its food is knowledge and
love.” In this magniloquent jumble, <CD. H. W.” confounds intel¬
lectual and affectional with spiritual, food, and spirituality with Spirit¬
ualism or the spiritual philosophy. Thus, according to this kind of
logic, all men who study the physical sciences, and love their wives and
children, must be numbered among the greatest of Spiritualists ; but
all those who have devoted a score of their years to the investigation of
modern Spiritualism, but have neglected to enlarge their minds with the
knowledge of the properties of matter, are no Spiritualists at all. In
short, if you want to know anything about true Spiritualism, you
should not read Edmonds, Hare, or Kardec, but should knock at the
door of the Tyndalls, the Huxleys, and the Donkins.
Again, to make contradiction more contradictious, he admits that
“ the generality of English people do not take to Spiritualism.” But
if Spiritualism means the enlargement of the soul by knowledge and
affections, I should like him to find a more cultivated and warm-hearted
race of people than the English.
Like one who has no experience of his own to retail, Mr. “D. H. W.”
freely quotes others, and refers me to A. J. Davis and Gregory, whose
works I have perused, long before him, may be. If he will reperuse
them, he will find in them cosmology, cosmography, magnetism, and
many other vague hypotheses, but very little of Spiritualism. But,
since he refers me to authority, let me refer him to another, which
teaches, “ Non jurare in verba magistri,” And let me tell him, that if
reincarnation be true (and he has not brought a larva of a reason
against it), all that grand literature, which he so boastingly quotes, by
ignoring the central truth of reincarnation, becomes nothing but a
compendious ABC.
If “D. H. W.’’ has any argument to bring forth against the doctrine
of the plurality of existences, I shall be most happy to meet it with
respectful attention, but I would advise him never to lose sight of the
claims of courtesy, even when dealing with an unknown quantity.
  X.
DREAMS AND THEIR PHILOSOPHY.
Sir,—Referring to “ K.’s ” communication in your issue of the 2nd,
I beg to make a few remarks.
That some dreams are absurd, there can be no doubt, but that some
are foregleams of futurity is quite as certain. With myself dreams
are a great guide; but the great mystery to me is I always dream the
contrary; for instance, if I lose anything and dream I have found it,
I am sure not to find it, and vice versa. But they are very true with
respect to troubles, gain, mental anxiety, illness, and matters of these
kinds. If I have a foolish dream, vague and indistinct, I am sure
nothing important will happen the following day ; but if they are clear,
distinct, and precise, whether good or bad, they denote something.
The other night I dreamed I was at the seat of war with the
Russians, and in great danger of being killed, but I escaped; the same
night I dreamed of wheat, and that I was busy farming. The next
morning brought me good news and gain ; but a most unpleasant thing
happened, which caused me much anxiety for two days, and which
passed away as suddenly as it came. Thus there was a distinct relation
between the dream and the events.
* It was sent to ns not as a private letter, and was accompanied by a written request for
its publication.—En,
II To dream about the Welsh mountains in the same way as “ K.” did
would signify to me that I was going many times round the candlestick
in some of my affairs. It often happens that you do not see the mean-
i ing of the dream until after its fulfilment.
I have paid much attention to dreams, and sought for their meaning
| in “ astrology,” and, although not wholly successful, yet it has scarcely
I been satisfactory to my mind. This much I have found correct, that
I the nativity has great significations with respect to the general dreams
I11 of the native, and whether they be correct or not; but whether it is
i the soul that energises, or some unseen intelligence, I cannot say.
11 From my past experience I should think it is the former.
,j | E. Raphael.
| i St. Paul’s Churchyard.  
|| PROVINCIAL NOTES.—NO. IV.
) I Sir,—In reply to a letter signed “ J. B. Stone,” which appeared in
Ij a recent issue, commenting upon a statement contained in No. 2 of
j | these notes, I simply stated the facts concerning the present public
jj position of Spiritualism in Blackburn. The cause is publicly at a
j low ebb in that town just now, and I feel that the methods which
i allowed Miss Wood to pass scathless during her first visit—i/' she was
i an impostor—must certainly have been “ crude,” as stated in these
II notes. Of the private aspects of Spiritualism in Blackburn these
| notes do not profess to give intelligence, but after the lengthened ex-
) I perience of able Spiritualists, and cautious investigators, in Newcastle-
Ij on-Tyne, Belper, Derby, Cambridge, Leicester, London, and many
(j other places, have had of Miss Wood’s mediumship, the wholesale
j I denunciation of that lady is a matter I cannot endorse. As physical
I mediumship is surrounded by so many difficulties, it should be a
jj matter of patient study, rather than the subject of denunciation, when
i something utterly unexpected occurs. Miss Wood is too well known
’) j to need any commendatory remarks from “ X.”, or to be permanently
j injured by an experience which can as well be accounted for upon the
j hypothesis of the ‘‘ double,” or “ evil spirits,” as upon the theory of
) j wilful imposture. Certainly, it should not be said that if false in one
i she must, of course, be false in all.
j However, to resume the main purport of these notes. Our next
i point is Edinburgh, where, publicly, Spiritualism does not manifest
j any activity. Some years ago, Miss Lottie Fowler, an American
j I clairvoyant, had a period of most successful practice there, many
) j persons of good social standing visiting her. At a later date, Mrs.
i Tappan—now Mrs. Richmond—delivered some trance lectures there;
j but, beyond the above matters, there has not been of late very much
I accomplished for the public in furtherance of Spiritualism,
jj In Glasgow there is a fairly flourishing Spiritualists’ Association,
i j holding meetings on Sunday evenings, in a comfortable hall in the Tron-
jj gate. The services embrace essays, lectures, trance addresses, and
j I occasional seances. There is a large number of people interested in
I Spiritualism in Glasgow; and in the neighbouring towns of Paisley,
j Greenock, Barrhead, and Johnston, many are acquainted with the
I subject.
I Dundee, Perth, Aberdeen, and Inverness, have nothing of a public
j nature, calling for notice pertaining to them, the spiritual soil in each
j case being virgin, or well-nigh so. Such also is the case with
j Kilmarnock and Dumfries. I have heard of one or two Spiritualists
I in Kirkcudbright. Scotland, as can be inferred, is not a fruitful soil for
j modern Spiritualism. Returning southwards, and crossing the Border,
i we reach Carlisle. A few Spiritualists are stated to exist there, but
j they possess no power, nor exert any influence. In Kendal and
i Windermere the subject could be advocated with a fair chance of
sowing good seed. In the neighbouring district is Grassmere, where
1 i Mr. P. R. Harrison has established a Progressive College for the educa¬
tion and training of the children of Spiritualists. It is a matter of
! regret that this laudable undertaking is not so well supported as it
j deserves. In Carnforth, Ulverstone, and Barrow-in-Furness, public
I meetings have been held, and a public platform discussion has taken
j place recently, terminating in favour of the Spiritualist debater. The
j local press gave fair reports, and the public paid respectful attention.
I In Lancaster I have not heard of any public work whatever. At
j Sedberg and Bedale there was at one time quite a strong interest, but
latterly it seems to have subsided. The next point is Preston, which
has already been noticed. The reader has now made a complete circuit
of the northern and north-western provinces, and has had a bird’s-eye
view of the position of Spiritualism therein presented. It now only
remains to take a glance southwards, which we will do at this point.
Quite a number of public lectures has been delivered in Brighton
from time to time, and the Sussex Daily News has invariably given
copious and impartial reports. Spiritualism in the above town has
engaged a great share of attention for a number of years past, and still
j maintains its position. In Eastbourne and St. Leonards the public
expression of the movement is now unknown. In Plymouth and
I Southampton the movement has been well received, and a good field is
j presented for future labours. In the Isle of Wight there has been much
j interest in past times ; at present no public work is in progress, though
j there is much progress there in private.
The foregoing are about the only places at that end of the kingdom
that call for any remark. In most of the other towns Spiritualism has
either no adherents or investigators whatever, or else they are so few
as to have no influence. X.
ASTROLOGY.
Sir,—I had hardly left with you my unlucky and blundering ex¬
periment in astrology, than it occurred to me that it would be strange
if somebody or other did not discover matter for censure in the example
I had selected. And sure enough “ J. W. R.” has read my letter “ with
considerable pain,” and thinks that a scientific, or would-be scientific,
228
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 9, 1877.
experiment when the subject of it is an event about which people are in i)
the habit of betting, must somehow or other be wrong and injudicious. K
Let me put this case to “ J. W> R.” I will suppose him or her to dis- n
approve of card-playing (likewise a favourite medium of gambling), and j)
that I am trying to teach a child, or myself, arithmetic by visible fj
symbols. If I took for this purpose a number of beads, it would be all j)
right, but if I took a pack of cards, and dealt out four and then five I)
and said, “ this four and that five make nine,” I should be assisting my j(
education by means which “ thoughtful and high-minded men would as- !)
suredly shun.” Now this is just similar to what I did—only unfortu- j)
nately I made my four and five come to ten—and I fear I shall never !j
come up to “ J. W. R.’s ’’ standard of thoughtfulness and high-minded- j)
ness. A race was a good example for my purpose, because the event j)
was definite and the decision at hand. And it had to be one in which 11
there was an interested querent, as this determines the significators.
Wherein I was perhaps wrong and foolish was in carrying on my educa- ])
tion in public, and occupying your valuable space with trivial and futile H
experiments. But I hoped for instruction by submitting my exercise to J)
competent eyes for correction. C. C. Massey. |)
November 2nd.   j)
Sir,—I must apologise to my friend, Mr. 0. C. Massey—if he will j|
permit an anonymous stranger to so denominate him—for having failed j) |
to reply in last week’s Spiritualist to his questions, anent the “ Cam- K ]
bridgeshire Stakes.” Unfortunately, through some error of my book- ij |
seller, the number of your journal for October 26th did not reach me till j
nearly a week after date, so that I was too late to avail myself of your K j
columns till to-day. Unfortunately the same mistake has again occurred, j j j
the paper for November 3rd not having yet reached me. In answer to j| I
the lady who addresses me from Bristol, I may say she will be able to |\ |
obtain a little work from “ Casael,” 134, High-street, Watford, Herts, j) j
by sending the author thirty penny postage stamps. It contains some j) j
rather absurd “poetical” pieces, but if these are overlooked, the astro- js j
logical information will be found valuable. Mr. Thomas Millard, of St. l/j
Paul’s Churchyard, London, will, no doubt, if written to, supply a j j
catalogue of works on sale. Those by Raphael, Zadkiel, Wilson, or j\j
Lilly should be preferred. j) i
Mr. Massey, I am afraid, has been in too great a hurry in airing his i| j
youthful knowledge. From his letter, he seems to me to bean apt i|j
pupil, but yet lacks sufficient experience to yet warrant him in giving j) j
judicial decisions. I will endeavour to set him right, in the hope that h!
he may in future be a little more careful in his predictions, because, as jjj
he will readily understand, erroneous horoscopes only bring obloquy on I) |
those who publish them, the ignorant being but too willing to raise the 11 f
ready laugh. In the first place, how comes it that your contributor (||
obtains l2h. 14m. 14s. for his meridianal ascension? Looking into j) j
Raphael’s Ephemeris for October 16th, 1877,1 find the sidereal time for if j
noon given as 13h. 36m. 29s. ; if to this be added for equation 14m. 14s., i) i
we get 13h. 16m. 43s. As five minutes have to elapse before noon how- j I
ever, they must be deducted from these figures, and 13h. 45m. 43s. is j j
the result, being the right ascension of the meridian at the time of jj j
asking the question. In the “ tables of houses ” for London, we find I) i
13h. 44m; as the nearest approximate, and this shows that 23 degrees | j i
42 minutes of Sagittarius are to be placed on the cusp of the ascendant, j
or first house, and 28 degrees of Libra on the tenth house, or midheaven, i j
The planets being then introduced in accordance with their respective |j j
longitudes, it is only necessary to judge of their relative aspects and j) j
positions. At a glance it may be seen that “ Rosy Cross ” will not win j i
the race. Let us in the first place have regard to the significators of the jj j
horse. These are the twelfth house, and its lord, Sagittarius and !)!
Jupiter. We must next inquire, Will the horse come to honour in the | |
struggle ? and for this purpose take the horse’s house of honour or if!
dignity. This will be the ninth from the ascendant, being the tenth from ]) ]
the twelfth. The sign Virgo is on the cusp, and the lord of Virgo, Mer- j I i
cury, is the lord, therefore, of the house of honour for the horse. He is in four i | j
degrees of Libra posited in the horse’s tenth, just leaving the sign in which i j j
he would be fortified by house and exaltation. He is still in his tuplicity, || j
but this is his only dignity. Jupiter is in the first house of the figure, n I
It is, therefore, requisite to see how the two lords aspect each other, i j
There is no “reception,” and as they are within orbs of square this is jl |
adverse to a favourable issue of the horse’s efforts to win renown. i( j
Jupiter being also one of the lords of the first, it shows that the i |
querent will not benefit from the matter. The second lord of the first i j
is Saturn (Capricorn being the intercepted sign). Saturn is weak, and | |
suffering from the close affliction of Mars, who is lord of the querent’s j |
fourth, testifying that the matter will end ill pecuniarily, because the | j
malefic aspect occurs in the querent’s second. The ruler of the querent’s | j
tenth (the tenth of the scheme, and his place of honour), is Venus, and ])
she is in the querent’s house of woe, trouble, and ill-luck. She is in no j j I
dignity, and is in close square to Mars. The opposition of the Part of jjj
Fortune to the Sun—the Sun being in the house of his greatest debility j| j
—foretells failure in money matters—the injury coming from the horse’s i j j
tenth. The opposition also of Uranus (who is in the eighth, and is closely jj j
conjoined with Lauda Draconis) to the second, shows deception and jjj
disappointment. The only good influences are from Mercury (casting j)
a trine to the Moon) and Venus (throwing her sextile to the same), but jj j
both being weak, they have little effect. Everything was against success, j j j
both for the “ backer ” and his “ fancy.” That the horse was a good |j I
one, well thought of by his owner, I should judge from the fact that he jj j
was in the first, in his own house, and that the public thought well of jj j
him, the Moon (the general signifier of the people), indicates. These jjj
would lead one to assume that the animal would “ rise ” in the betting jj j
and become “a hot favourite,” and the backer would have done well to jj I
have held on to the very hour before starting. As inglorious defeat jj j
must, however, result, and was shown so long before the race, it would jj j
have been certainly prudent to have “ hedged.” jjj
I should think that the solution of horse-racing by astrology is about jy j
as difficult a matter as possible.' “ Zadkiel,” in his handbook, says the 1
usual indications must be strong and decided to show that the querent
will gain or not by any particular race or horse. “If the ninth (the
house of honour for the horse) be strong, and the lord of the twelfth be
there, and not afflicted, then the horse will gain honour by the race, and
be well placed therein. And if there is no evil planet afflicting the
lord of the twelfth, or planet therein, and no evil planet in the twelfth,
or afflicting the ninth, or its lord, or planet therein, but, on the con¬
trary, good aspects exist, the horse named may be expected to win the
race. But to feel certain of this there must be undoubted benefic testi¬
monies, and none that are evil.”
Hoping the gentleman who is so able a contributor on Spiritualistic
matters may hereafter become a credit to the astrologic world, I sub¬
scribe myself as before, truly yours, Aldebaran.
P.S.—Since writing the above I have been informed by a friend that
“Rosy Cross” did not win, and was not even dignified by being
amongst the “ first three.”
Sir,—My attention has been directed to several communications in
your paper on “Astrology,” and which I have read with interest.
I rather think Mr. Massey has made some error in the erection of
the figure for the race. He gives the time as October 15th, llh. 55m.
a.m., clock time (which I consider mean time) ; this, with the
“equation of time” (which is not necessary to be used with my
Ephemeris or Zadkiel’s), makes it Oh. 9m. 14s. p.m. The “ sidereal
time ” for the 15th is 13h. 36m., add the 9m. 14s. thereto, which makes
it 13h. 45m. 14s. ; this amount gives Sagittary on the ascendant,
whereas Mr. Massey appears to have got Capricorn rising. In either
of the figures, however, the malifics would occupy the second house,
and denote loss, and Venus, lady of the fifth (the house of the race),
applying to a square of Mars in the second, is a sure sign the horse
would not win.
I have found from experience horse-racing to be a most delicate
affair to judge accurately ; but, generally, if you-find the lord of the
ascendant, or fifth house on the M.C., or the lord of the fifth, a fortune,
in the second, and well aspected, or in benevolent aspect, to the lords
of the first or second, it is a good sign of success. The eleventh and
its lord stronger than the fifth or its lord, the horse will not win. I
had three questions respecting the Oxford and Cambridge boat-race
this year. In all these figures the lords of the fifth and eleventh were
in their exaltations—Mars in Capricorn for Oxford, and Venus in
Pisces for Cambridge. They therefore signified a drawn contest, or
parties equally matched; but as Mars is stronger than Venus in
matters of contest, I judged Oxford would get the advantage; but I
could not see that they would actually win. The student will observe
that the eleventh is the seventh from the fifth. I have never known a
horse with a had figure to win ; but I have known horses not to win
(although they are generally placed) with pretty good figures. I do
not consider the twelfth house, nor yet the Part of Fortune.
I do not think Mr. Massey is to blame in bringing forward the sub¬
ject. Lilly gives no rules for racing, but it is doubtful if racing was
much in fashion in the seventeenth century. Raphael.
79, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C.
WANTED—WORKS ON SPIRITUALISM.
To the Publishers of11 The Banner of LightP
Dear Friends,—Allow me to thank you for your kind offer to supply
the library of the British National Association of Spiritualists with a
copy of Mrs. Conant’s Life, and Flashes of Light from the Spirit-
World. I shall be very happy to receive and take charge of them, as
you propose.
As it is among the aims of our Association to form a complete collec¬
tion of works on Spiritualism, and to supply students of our science
with works not even to be found in the vaults of our opposite neighbour,
the British Museum; and as, moreover, many such works were pub¬
lished years ago, and are not now easily procurable, I venture to appeal
to the generosity of our American friends, who may have duplicate
copies, or some they no longer wish to keep, and which would be useful
to a large number of readers, if placed on the shelves of a public
library. You, gentlemen, and my honoured friend, Madame Blavatsky,
have already made such offerings. Mr. Charles Partridge has kindly
promised some of the early numbers of the Spiritual Telegraph, which
are of great value on account of their rarity. Cahagnet’s Celestial Tele¬
graph, for instance, would be very acceptable, if any one would favour
us with a copy; also De Gasparin’s Spiritualism versus Science,
Leger’s Animal Magnetism, and any other rare works on this subject.
Judge Edmonds’s Sacred Circle is out of print, and we have at present
only a lent copy, which must be returned ere long. We should also
appreciate a complete file of R. P. Ambler’s Spiritual periodical, and a
work entitled The Little Bouquet.
If you find it within your discretion to insert these few lines in the
Banner of Light, and should they meet with any response, I shall be
happy to take charge of any donations so received (which you will
perhaps first allow to be deposited at your office), and an official
receipt will be forwarded to the donors from London, besides being
acknowledged in the columns of The Spiritualist newspaper.
E. Kjslingbury.
New York City, Oct. 17th, 1877.
What is the Liverpool Psychological Society doing? Its printed
programme for the month consists only of the name and address of its
secretary.
Next Sunday morning, Mr. W. J. Colville, the new trance medium,
will give an inspirational address at the favourite place of Spiritualistic
resort, the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, London,
subject—“ The Influences of Destiny and Free-will upon Human Life
and Action.” The service will commence at 11.15 a.m. All seats free.
Nov. 9, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Q-reat Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above offlce has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
' who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reahty of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
boimd, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,’also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 16s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents : The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The .Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to sweet clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth, Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book censists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. 6d.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. Aninteresting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OFJNFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6<L
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by' a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Sees'." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .7
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . • .76
The Seer. „ III. „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . . 7 6
The Thinker. ,, V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis , . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . . 7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . * . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmomal Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds ...... 60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China do India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 0
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges,by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale .  .   10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recesitly produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Othee
Obseeyees in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.G.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a carefu
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be •
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un ■
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible com¬
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.O.
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KPJNE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. John ROUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloans-square, S.W.
%
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
.1877.
The great question of the day.:
How" to Prevent Premature Death from UDjsefegSf<!
• PreveijtiOjU of the Propagation of,Infectious Dishase^7sta7tling
.bcttTrae.
How long are we to be left in sanitary tahijters, at the inerey
of the; ignorant and careless?,* ThetT^m^ ht^teithat 100,0Q0
cstses annually of illness from typhoid' feitealone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 300}0l00''persons have died'
of this preventable disease since *;Hhe'tdeafh ;of PBINCE
ALBERT JTflE GREAT AND; GOdD^Upder the'1 Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary,matters
than the world to-day, while'thelr'Ta^pliajSces were rude in
comparison "to ours. ; . i ri AAA j
INQUESTS. — M STARTLINGr^A RRAY ’I'OE
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—"Why should.Eever, that; vife4
slayer of millions, of Hie human race, hot be as much and mofe^
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death? The murderer, as1 he is'
called, is cjuichly made example of by the daw.. Fevers .are
almost universally ackno'wledged to be preventable diseases^;
how is it that, they are allowed to level their ^thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest,? The most
ordinary .observer must- be .struck‘with the hfTge blunder.,
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For.the means'of preventing- prema¬
ture death frpm di§ea^e read, a large illustrated sheet given-;
with each bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT; the informatigh is'
invaluable. The Ffhit 'Salt '(one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure,-;‘and is thus of Itself ope of-the most
valuable means of, keeping, the blood .free; from fevers and
blood, poisons, liver , complaints, &c., ever "discovered. As a
means of preserving and reVtOrihg health'It is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, - refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the bbdy Healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land' would be without it, .nor .a single
travelling trunk'or portmanteau but would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“In cases of bilious headaches,' followed by .severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed.^ The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use-in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood Will be~ considered “crhhinal."—gee
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps. 1
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
mmensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHEN G". COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or-asV GENTLE-LAK’A^
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).*
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick, Headache,iSkin. Eruptions,'
Impure Blood, Pimples on the^ace,^Giddiness,/Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental; Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c.,' ahd to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking ; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden. Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal y^lue, the ,F,RUIT, SALT
muts be looked upon as essential as breathing, fresh air, or as
a simple and safe bevdrage under "oZZ circumstances, may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass Water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in eye/>;y sense ^pi&Mrm, io an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product df nature, it is a'true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting -or residing In HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT (.0 bo an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as-they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making-foOd is not required in the warmer climate.- By
keeping the system cleai\ the'.Fruit Salt takes away'the’
ground work of-malaridus/diseases,'and all- liver complaifits,-
and neutralises pioisohpds : matter,; Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the folldwing:—
A M.D.'(EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L A.C., London, writes:—'
“I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having- tried5 it* on'
myself. Your theory and remarks'are most5reasonable.’
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who .recovered, I meaq. to" go-
in well for purifying the blood. .-Though I aim sixty'-threp, I
have not the least doubt it will’be very'serviceable to me.” ■
A Gentleman writes:—“T feel quite certain, if-your FRUIT
SALT was knowh.in INDIA and:the COLONIES, that the
sale would hot be limited to'thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY-MILLIONS. India alone would use more than1
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is-'beyond all praise. I wish you-would
sell it here; it would makeits own way by its own merit.’’—
T. A. SOMERBY; Councillbr-at-law, 20, Old State House,'Boston,''
U.S.A.
A lady writes': “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to1
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life .was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our'family it has”
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe1 much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make; the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better''rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after ‘spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of-Hexham, say : .Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles,'and'if, gives’geheral
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always-recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous i instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.” jfJ /
“ 14, Rue dela Pah(, Paris, Jap. 16,1877, .
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. * He1 is a constant.
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried-your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
‘ M.BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and ,4s. 6d.
Sole.Ayent for Pan's—PH ARMACIE DE BERAL, 14,. RUE
DE LA PA IK
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
' ANIMAL- MAGNETISM,’ l|*Tf
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., of
f Wm 1 Cherriistiyffiat Edfribiirgh] tfiiM$ssitfi,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to -His Grace
the,Duke of Argyll,. , ...
The second and Slightly revised andyabrid,ged#hdition, for*
its quality and siie.the cheapest larg^work eyer; published
in this country in.connection wiyySpiritualism.
^phj&publishpdf price,§s-, op 5s. 6.d.*post.fr,eehpr, five copies
POsflfHa forTMs.j/Copies may i^sh-be^hAY bound in half
ditlf,'. wiffi 'maFbrod^edges, price wjMBP per volume, post free.
C.0 h[-T E IJ T S . H
, CHARTER I :^First-Effects Produced by. MesiuesiSip~®ehsa^01i31
—Processifor Causing Mesmeric Sleep — Thk Sleep*o’f Mesmeric
State—It'-Dccurs Spontaneously in Sleep-IValkers—Pheno'meua of
theJjleep^-Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Inse^?ibility■;tq,.
Painyx *,i , . -
CHAPTER JIControl Exercised hv the Operator over the Sub ,
fje6t-in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the .Look
and Gesture—Effectof MusiCr-Truthfulnessof the Sleeper-^Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Causpd by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards Wife Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given m the Sleep'
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community .of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experinieirt^Puhlic, Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—^Existence of a Peculiar Force
of Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid .Vision,'without
the Eyes—Vision of Near -Objects: through Opaque Bodies; at a'
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Introvision.»
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Pfevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre-
I dieted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta-
neous'Clairvoyahce—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and ^Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes-,
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
,, CHAPTER .VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Bio)ogylElectrp-Psychology.
and Hypnotism, essentially the’ same—Phenomena of'Suggestiohs in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method apdits Effects
, .—Mr.,Lewis’s,Method and its Results—The Tmpreshible.State—,
Control ExeTfise'd by the Operator—Gaftihg—Mr.lBrtiidfe'SEIjiiifotism8'
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub-;
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural mid Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subject^—Col.' Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations-—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII; Phfelio-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects ^fj'mjeluns thejHeijd, in the, Slegp-^yariety in the Phenom-
enkr-Su^estioif^Symbathy—There are Cases'in wliifeH .tlfese Act,
i arid-.othei^' in jwhich they do not Act—Elienojaena ;Df sciJbed-7-The
Lower Animlils'Susceptible' of Mesmerism—Fascihatfon' Ambng;
Animals — instinct—Sympathy of Animals — Snail-,-Telegraphy
I Founded’onlt. *"
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals; etc./ on-the Human
Framf^-RgsearCh'es of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the-
Mesinefic Fluid of Mesriier. or with thd Influence which Causes the*
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesfaefic Eight—AufoYa’ ’Borealis *
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water— Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan-
. ity,;Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and'-Traced to Natural Causes-— Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance-Prediction? of Various Kinds.
I' CHAPTER" X :—An vExplkiiatioii of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force .(Odyle) Universally-1 Diffused, Certainly (Exists,
and is Probably -tlle Medium ’of Sympathy- andUpucid (Vistoji@-Jjts
Characters-LDifficulties.of.the SuWect—Effects’of Odyle—Sbtnifam*
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thbught-Readnlg—Lucid'-'VislBIii-u;
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up.by ,Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The. Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc. , Induce 1
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal .Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future. - • • , . - ....
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in-Mesmerism' by Men of Sciences
—Due-Limits •of-Shilhfific-'Caution—Practical Hinfs-LDbnditiou? of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure.—Mesmerism. a; Serious
Thing—Ckuti&nS tS WStudent—Opposition'to h^. Expected.-! > ».
CHAPTER Xlf:—Pji^ftp'mena Observecl~in rthe Oonscibus, or
Waking State—EffectsPr Suggestion on Persbfts- in an'Inipfbssible
State—Mr. Lewis’s -Expfjri'nients With and Without , Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darliilg’s ,Experiments — Cases —Conscio'uslor Waking
Clairvoyance^Proaiiced: byi Passes,, or by . Gonefentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian'Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out Of/Nitte 'Persona Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
SubjeetASuggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—SympathicKllairvoyance ih thQBleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases;' Sir J. Franklin > Major Buckley’s Case,of Retrovision.,
CHAPTER XIV ■—Direct piairyoyahc'e—Cases—Travelling Clair-,
vo'yarice—Oases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy-,
man, with Cases—Clairv.oya.hce. of Alexis—Other .Ca^es.
^CHAPTER-XV:—Traijqe—Extasis — Cases — Spontaneous. Mes--
meric PhMiomcna-rApparitidns—Predicybnk ‘ ‘
CHAPTER XVl ^Curative 'Agency of- Mesmerism—Concluding ••
Remarks, and Summary.
Ldndon: W. H;'Harrison, 38, Great”Russeil-streef; W.C. 7
PSYCHISGB E STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
; devoted to the investigation of’the unexplained phenb-1-
mgna Of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre AksaroF, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science."
Price Is. monthly—Leipsie: .Oswald .Mutze.;'London: The -
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price Sixpence.
THE'• UNTRUSTWORTHINESS OF- -DR.
. CARPENTERS PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review.of his bo'ok on Mespierism, .Spiritualism,
tf'e., jllstorically cynd ScientificallyiConsidered." fBy Alfred
Russel-Wallace, F.L.S: This reviesw was originally .published
in The -Quarterly'Journal of Science. . „
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 'London, ,W.C.
A LADY ARTIST, Spiritualist, andA pupil of
Signor Belueci, Florence, and other schods^ will, from
the H>tt October, receive, sitters for portraits in’ her'fstiidio, I
19, Holland-street, -Kensington. Moderate" prices to mediums .
and Spiritualists. •
w.
L. CANEY, :ph.otograplier. Studio
• opposite the'-Unity.-,Church, 151, Upper-street,
Islington, London, *N.
LITERARY.—A gentleman of considerable
practical experience is.; ready to undertake'translation 1
from, or tuition in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek, Portuguese, ’
and Italian. ^Vutbors’ manuscripts-prepskrad,and Bentltkrough
press. .Highest literary and~scientiflcireferences..-'Aldress 0-
C^rtpr Blakef32, Great Ormbnd-strdet,W.C. ' '
, ‘ ; finstfPublished,
.Price Seypn S)nllings..a}id-Sixpeime,' Crown 8vo.,richly.gHI,
m • T H E4 7i AtfY L AYS
A N D PRO S'E l 1MA-G I N’ IN o's ,*
. ; Bt tVILtiAM R.r HArRIS'QN.J-'
- An ElegAnt’'ancrAn,uisiug:Gii'trBbol{';bf/Poetical and Prose-
Writiugs^t'bve^kiqtflGlay. " : j <
The gilt device'bn the cover designed by FibrgnceYClaxton 'anil the
Author.'^
^ .-'V 'COXIENTS.- 'r7'
I ‘ ^ Miscellaneous Poems and ProseaAyKitinas.
uL TlreiLayiof the Lazy Author.—2. The Song bf’Hiebteivspajier;
Editor;^3.-;The; Song of the Pawnbroker.—i. The Caiitle:*—5, :Tiie!
iLay>of :'the'i;FatsMau.—6. The. Poetry of Science,—7. Hbw.JIadji
A! Shacabac’wSs Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Sliacabac,
a'gentlCmfflf wh6.;vj^iteds?London on business connected with-’-a"
Turkish’I/dRn, tclAlijMustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Obi*
lege1 of Hbiylillg. Derrishbs at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of ,the
Broad-Brimmed J'Hat'.T-Ol St. .Bride’s.rBay.—10, The Lay of ,the
Market Gardeper.^11. ‘^Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic*Religioii.—13/ The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How’tb^DcSble" thei'Utility'#of-the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the/Mothev-in-Law.—10. Wirbeybeweffmf.—lt: “Poor Old
Joe!”—18: The Human Hive.—IQ. The Lay .qLthe Alaee-Bearers.—;
20. A Love Song.—21. 'A Vision.7*22.'“ Uiider the Liines.”—23.'The
Angel of Silence.- 'V'’ ’
Part 2.—77{C WobblejawBalladsiJiy AntpQny^fpfigiejam.i
24. ’The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s* Rebeptioif at Folke;
stone.—20. -The' Rifle Corps.—27.- Tofty’s' LameflfcL-SS.isTlie/’dkily
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman. ... - yi
Opinions of the PBESg/.vnrJ'V ; iftf
From The Morning />o?f.-hj. .. . - t
Tlie Morning Posf, which strongly recommbnds-'tlie-bbbfe in a
review nearly,-a column loiig,jsays*:7-j“.Gomic-lRei>fi9*e,-(«yhiBhj
honestly deserves the epith'et;*§eemst to be rapiyly beebmingfia
tiling of the past; consequently .a'ny write! Wlib' like hlr'. H AfnspTi,
exhibits a; genuine.vein of humb.itr,';dpger,vp.s.the76rai$qof/^ll who^.
are not too stApld to enjoy an innocphttaiigh.’1 Nbf uiat'iiis'innse' ■
restricts'liei-self Only to such lighter'utterhnfcb^Y-Bn thp fcoutraiy,
some of his poems touch on the dcepestrafid mbst's&crefl feelings ‘
of our commoii'humauity. . . . The unfort-unate Hadji’S nai-rative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite'1
one of tlie funniest things that has been published for 3*ears. ..
THe book'contains quite enough.to. ensure it a welcome from
-which^its^tasteful -iippehrance-wi-IL nbt detract.’’ The Morning
' P.ost says of -The Wobblej(cw,lJaUdds\fi-“ No one can help laughing
■at them:”*' V.,1 '*'**'
"j f From ThefJourbJournal.
“All are of marked ability.. 1 . Occasionally we find verse‘of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pm*e poetic
gift.’’
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse. |.. Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to, plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.. . . To
all who Wish'to re'id’a •’pleasant volumemaghlficently got up as a
gift-book, lye cgminend^^ejjLazJ) Lays.” , (up MbM gjg
From The British Journalif‘Photography.1 ■
“ Tiib.Lazy'Lays include many admirable pieces, Some of which
are in vpj-se and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make'excellent and
atriusipg reading for an Occasional spare half-hour.... They con-
tairv'notliiiig unrefined orin bRdTdsfel”
From The Dublin1 University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound In a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that .his'subjects'should bear some trace of this peculiar idibsyn-
ctasy,' and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.,. -. . The
pdein's are ‘all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
.'.. Tlie work-js very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... -V
gorgebus'design upon the cover. / / /If'-biif readers wish to en¬
courage laziness Vtlfey have a most deserving object in a very
Clever ’and versatile member of the order.”
From The Photographic News,
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
hlim'ofbus inp'od;'With many scientific follies which are better
IRughed’down thau gravely disputed.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-hook elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents... . The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.
• From The Folkestone News; tt
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers; entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads which
appeared in the columns of this/paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore . at the time.” \N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called'the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation-of Folkestone to the 'burlesques in the
“ Wobbleiaw Ballads,” but the members assembled Jaughed at the
I matter, prfdproseed'd tojjte ^xt--,bMsitiess. ' The Mayor said that-he
! did’not mindftnem.Y._.. “ It contains sqjne very choice poems
I and prose essays, js bound, in cl.otji richly gilt, and has an original
1 design of no ordinary meritroii the cover.” ■
i Obtainable, price ,'7s.'6d., p6s"t fr§e,; at. the Piiblishing Office, ot
• W.: H.''HARRisbN,;38,'Grfeat'Rusself-‘street, London, W.C. *
Mediumship • -' its nature; : and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation, for' those rwhb hold dr who are about to hold spirit
1 circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id. ; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FRQM, OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F.M. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paperico.ver, Heayen Opened,” being
more advanced/Spirit-mesfsagas. f/Partsi2,'-price 6d.,: paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” -The twO’-parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. Branch Office.
THE -PROBABLE - EFFECTS OF SPIRIT-
; ualism'upon.the social, moral, and reli-
IGIOUS- CONDITION :OF, SOCIETY. Two Essays' by Miss
[ AnnaJBlackweli and-Mr. G. F. Green.
1 Published by'the'1 British National Association of Spiritualists,
*:i-* M "•38; Great Russell-Street/'W.G;-? 1 > /
, j E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane/E.C.
f • ■* ' - ■ 1 ■ Price Is.
[Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & .Co., at the
! Hplborn Printing "VVorks, Fullwpqd’s Rents, ;High Holborn
| 'in the Parish of St. AndLewmboYe-Bar: and. St. George
.the Martyr, Londoipandl'publishgd’by,E^ W. Allen, Ave
i Maria-lane, Lpndon,:E,0.* ». f.^
