BmSTIMD as A Nji.WfPAPJ-p.
3 X1) j ot' i{ \r^o i/ '.Py d ito i<oidr<
toiflj Sjnntaltsm In (fexmi ^ntem.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule
vard des CapucineSj and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs* Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia
ROME: Signor Bocca,. Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimort. BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 338. (Yol. XIV.—No. 7.) - LONDON : FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Organisation among Spiritualists ... ... ...  ; ... 73
The Doctrine of the Mystics  ... ’  ... -. 73
rPa.e Psychological Review   ...  j 74
Private .Seances..i   ... ...   ••• 75
Where is Mrs. Tranter?—Deposition of Mr.Hudson  76
Spiritual Manifestations in Cape Town  77
In Memoriam. (Poetry.)     78
Correspondence:—The “Bloody Sweat’’—The Eeligious r
Aspects of Spiritualism—Spiritualism in Texas—
Bcehme and St. Martin—The JPower of the Will—
Spiritualism in the East   ...•   ...’ ... 79
The British National Association of Spiritualists:—
Meeting of the Council—“Protest” ... ...   ... 82
On Religion. By Alexander Calder,' President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists 84
Spiritualism in Dalston,.. ... ...       84
Paragraphs :—The Miracle of La Salette, 78 ; Spiritualism
in India      83
“THE SPIRITUALIST’' NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.'
rriHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, ana is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those'who
have published their names in connection with their communica-
ions m its columns are Mr. C. P- Varley, C.E., E.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science’’-(who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present fime,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associar
tion for the Advancement oi Science. (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess oi
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeid (Holstein),: Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Suilivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, E.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre AksaKCsf, Russian Imperial
Council! or, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital ■ Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John El Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
nury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles’(United States); Mr. W.'Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places:—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Oorso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Ohiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the. business of The Spiritualist
should he addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper BranchOffice, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.C.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERISfor 1879, containing predictions of
events and the. weather for every month, <fce., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d. i or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, Ac.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I.; by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays;
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
. CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS.
The Offices of the Association will he open between the
hours of 2 p.rrt. and 9‘.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except
Saturday, when they will be open between the hours of 2 p.m.
and 6 p,m.
CALENDAR FOR FEBRUARY, 1879.
Friday,lith, and every succeeding Friday.—Experi¬
mental Research Committee at 6.30.
Monday, 11 fh.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 .p.m.
Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kisling-
bury’s paper—“Apparitions of the
Living,” to he opened by Rev. W. Stainton
Moses, M.A.'
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
RESEARCH COMMITTEE.
■TO MEDIUMS:
- This Committee, having in their charge the “ Weighing
Apparatus ” presented to the Association by Mr. C. Blackburn
for the purpose of obtaining absolute evidence of. certain phe¬
nomena occurring in the presence of “physical” mediums,
invite such mediums, public or private, to communicate with
them with a view to experiments with the apparatus in
question. Desmond G. Fitzgerald,
(Chairman of Committee).
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman-road, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec. .
The Religion op Spiritualism. '
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Will LECTURE
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
At the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer Street, W.
Admission Free.
Lecture begins at 7.30. Doors closed at 7.45.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following Engagements:—Hastings, Gensing Hall,
Afternoon and Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial
Society, February 4. Plymouth Mechanics’ Institute, February
12 (second time this season). - Redruth Institution, February
13. Truro Institution, February 14 (second time this season).
Leamington Institute, February 25. Finchley (Church end),
February 27. Croydon Literary Institution, March 6 (second
time). Favourable terms arranged with Institutes eii rmmte.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-
street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
March 12th, April 9th, May 14th, June 11th. Tickets 5s., 3s.,
2s., and Is.
N.B.—The Second Recitation of the Series will be given on
Friday, February 28, instead of Ash Wednesday, February 26.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
NO. 4. January. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTEN'TS:—
I.—Is Immortality a Delusion ? By Epes Sargent.
II.—Sister Celeste. By J. O. Earle.
III. —Spiritual Philosophy in Relation to Death and Spirit Life.
By Rev. J. Page Hopps.
IV. —Inspiration. No. 2. By Mrs. De Morgan.
V. —Reminiscences of George Thompson. By his Daughter,
Mrs. Nosworthy,
VI.—Zetalethes, the Truthseeker. By Miss Greenfield.
VII.—The Mound-Builders. By William Denton.
VIII.--7Montanism.
Materialistic Mysticism—A Geologist’s Confession—The Seat
of Evil
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O
A YOUNG GENTLEMAN will be glad of any
office, manuscript, or literary employment. Highest
references. Address A. B. O., Sherborne Lodge, Tracey-street,
Kennington-road, London.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by,the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars maybe obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell's Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co. London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Feb.„ 3.—Miss Kislinghury, “Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kislingbury’s Paper.
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mrs. Ellis, “Experiences in the Home Circle,
No. 2.”
April 7.—Mr. Morell Theobald, “Experiences in the Home
Circle, No. 3.”
April 21.—Mr. C. C. Massey. “On some of the less-known
Facts of Spiritualism.”
May 5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.. “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.> Thesedays are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ Review of the Session.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to'Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. * 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.V).
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL’’ PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily bo worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, prom £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & CO.
Show Rooms:—3, Lud gate Circus Buildings, London, e.o.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT.”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &e.
post free, seven stamps.
J. TURNER,
LOCfoSMITH, BELLHANGER, AND GASFITTER,
Stove and Range Maker,
1, HIGH STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Every description of Patent Close Fire Kitcheners repaired
and fixed.
Hot Water, Steam, and Bath Fittings,
T>IRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
JD 29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting'Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 14, 1879.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS. .
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1. Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Cerald, Mrs.. 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Ktz-Gerald, Desmond G-> M.g.Tel.E., 8, Akerman-road, Biixton,
S.W.
Honywood Mrs.. 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Tcmpleman.M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
• mad. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D.,12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F ,' The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Blnney, F A.. 24, St Ann s-souare. Manchester
Bonwick, J.. F.R.G.S.. Va’e of Health, Hampstead, N._
Chapman, John. 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W, H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar.” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 5, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H . 7. Oberste.in-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59. Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G-, fi. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38. Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton. MisS, 20. Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart , Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon. S.W.
Lament, John, 199, Lohdon-roari. Liverpool.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, [Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newton, W„ 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson. O.. 15, Harour-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. 0., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers. Christian, 47, Morning+on-mad Regent’s-park.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8, Museum-villas. Oxford. ~
Theobald, Morell. 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen. R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M..T-, 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh. 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White-, J., Meanwood Grange, Leedi.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-souare, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. Ji)hn’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, 3t. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
J. W. Gray, Esq.
Auditors.
G. H. Potts, Esq.
Resident Secretary.
Morell Theobald, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, GreatRnssell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg. Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guidenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Viseonde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
W. Gustave de Veh, 1. Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co..New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimllle, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molslraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street. Carlton, Melbourne
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany,
pr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Gennany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. w. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq,, 84, Rassell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy 1,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq^, M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons.Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J.Murray Spear, Esq.. 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de TEurope,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut -Col. P. Jacoby, 11 .Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
LonCon, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waiaron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Bpda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epc’-jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock. 54, Denbigh-street. Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet. Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 58, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Molra-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Government prosecutions for
MEDICAL HERESY: a Verbatim Report of the Case
“Regina v. Tebb.” Dedicated to the Board of St. Pancras
Guardians, London. With letters from the Right Hon. W. E.
Gladstone, M.P., the Right Hon. John Bright, M.P., and others.
Forty pp.. Price 2d., or Is. 9d. per dozen, or 12s. per 100. This
pamphlet should be circulated largely during elections of
Guardians and Members of Parliament. Published by Edward
W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
" Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.O. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. , 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—XL The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love And Latin.—
VI.. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda. / .
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXL Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner Is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
"EAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many ’rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. .Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. c. E. WILLIAMS,
01, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C. '
At home dally from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terraoe, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds qf Spiritual literature.
M
Paris.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
BW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Oommeroial-road, London, E, De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private stances attended, Applioation
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
MRS. M. G. PARKER, MESMERIC
HEALER and DEVELOPING MEDIUM, 22, Hart-
street, Bloomsbury-square, London. Hours 12 to 6.
jA/TRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
J-tA Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Franklin
gives Seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Bruns wick-square,
from 2 to 5, every day except Sunday, and every evening from
8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engagements can be made
by letter sent to the above address.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-eourt, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the soience
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vemon-plaoe, Blooms¬
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5. Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday evenings, office hours, owing to press of business,
extended to nine o’clock.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
AA ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15ih of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, vitt Bogino, No. 23.
TT> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
AV logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandke Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science,
price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MORSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
Brighton.—miss wood,^ 127 Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. — Terms on
application.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E, Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3 per week
each ; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Coa-
aonnerie, Paris.
jl uf y^ugr^as af an!) Jli^a of jljtnjtfnslwn.
Ko. 338.—Volujvie Fourteen; Number $even.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14th, 1879.
ORGANISATION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS. j
In 1873, it was resolved to form a national organisation |
of Spiritualists in Great Britain. This was done at a meet- |
ing at Liverpool, to which everybody had been invited by |
means of advertisements, circulars, and special letters to j
well-lmown men. Thus was the standard raised of u Friendly 1
union among Spiritualists.” Fierce attempts were made to f j
kill the organisation, more especially by the press, but the j {
workers fought their way, and succeeded in planting a useful j <
central establishment in London, and now and then in doing j,
some public work in addition, more especially the founding j
of fortnightly meetings to consider public questions relating | <
to Spiritualism. |<
If nine or ten efficient men, experienced in the respon- j j
sibilities of public life, had formed the managing body, |<
it would have been well, but that course was impracti- \\
cable; the objection would have been raised—“They are jj
tenor twelve persons setting themselves up to govern the j<
movement.” Hence it was necessary at starting to \\
have a large ruling body, and it was composed partly jj
of well known workers, and partly of Spiritualists j1
who had made no mark in the movement, but who
were elected on the Council simply because some friend j
proposed them. In a large heterogeneous body so I
constituted there must of necessity be differences of opinion
as to the way in which the public work of Spiritualism j
should be carried on, and it was sometimes the case that j
absentee members of Council, but whose names were a strong
guarantee to the public, would come in at one meeting, to
undo some of the work which had been executed by some of S
those members of the Council who attended more regularly.
This uncomfortable and time-wasting system is apparently j
not likely to continue. Mr. C. C. Massey points out, in
another column, that the Council is too large. There is a j
growing feeling abroad that Spiritualists had better group
themselves where they will be in harmony.
The higher the type of men, the greater is their capacity j
for efficient organisation, and any movement which cannot j
organise at all, stands self-condemned, so far as its position j
in the scale of civilisation is concerned. Therefore, it is j
pleasing to see that even so much headway has been made j
in Spiritualiam, as has already been achieved.
THE DOCTRINE OF THE MYSTICS.
Before the life and the works of Madame Guyon can be j
read with understanding and profit, it will be necessary to
have a clear and simple idea of the doctrine of the Mystics.
For many, blaspheming what they do not comprehend,
regard it as a mass of obscure terms and strange thoughts,
which have no foundation but in the heated imagination of j
weak minds or of visionary women.
2. To love God with all our heart; to pray without ceasing; j
to bear our cross daily: this is the essence of Christian
morality, and at the same time the substance of Mystic j
Theology. The Gospel sets before us love as the fulfilling of j
the law; constant prayer and self-denial as the two means of j
attaining it.
3. God loves Himself sovereignly and uniquely, because He
is sovereignly and uniquely worthy of love. He loves all His j
creatures according as they partake more or less of His Divine 1
perfections. The perfection of God is the rule of His love.
Now, the most perfect rule of finite wills is, without doubt,
that of the infinite will. People may dispute, refine, sub¬
tilise as much as they will, upon the different motives of love,
but they will never dare to deny that the supreme rule of j
love is to love God for Himself, and everything else for Him. j
It is an unchangeable truth founded upon the idea we have
of the Infinite Being. It is the eternal and universal religion |
of all intelligences. It is a duty to which the creature is
bound in all times, and in all places, even on the supposition
that he is to be destroyed after death, or that God will never
vouchsafe him any other knowledge of his infinite perfection
than what we have during this life.
The hope of the beatific vision is doubtless a Divine
virtue, a legitimate motive of love, a source of infinite con¬
solations, a strong resource in all the temptations and
miseries of our exile; but it is not pure love. The Scrip¬
ture distinguishes these two virtues. We must never corn-
found them, nor, while recommending pure love, must we dis¬
regard chastened hope.
If we judge of man’s capacity by what he does, and not by
what he should do, we are led to imagine that man is
incapable of this perfect love. Men usually act on a principle
of self-love, more or less refined ; and of our own power we
cannot act otherwise. As man is not the true light which
lightens his spirit, so he is not the cause of the perfect love
which should animate his will. A power higher than man
must act without ceasing in him; to raise him above himself
and to make him love according to the unchangeable law of
love.
4. The first means of arriving at this pure love is prayer;
j and the most perfect prayer consists in passively receiving
j the impression of God, who leads us without ceasing towards
j Himself. The Church does not attribute any other activity
j to man in grace than that of consenting to or dissenting from
j the Divine action which excites and moves him. God alone
j is the motive power of the soul; but it can always yield to
j or resist the Divine operation, and its most complete con-
j currence consists in allowing God to act in it.
The will, excited and broken by grace, must at first exert
j itself, and form a multitude of desires and distinct acts in
j order to turn away from the creature and towards God ;
j but after having been long accustomed to these frequent
j returnings, the habit is gradually contracted of living con-
! tinually in the Divine presence in a more simple, intimate,
j and uniform manner. The soul acts, but God alone is the
j principle of its action. He alone moves it, impels it,
j animates it, urges it; but it follows freely that which draws
j it. There is neither inaction nor forced co-operation, but
j free concurrence in the Divine action* The more the soul
j delivers itself up, the stronger and more vigorous does the
j action become, like the motion of bodies, which increases in
proportion as they approach their centre.
This is the prayer of the Gospel, which Madame Guyon
j calls after the Mystics—passive prayer, the prayer of silence,
! of repose, fyc. It consists neither in the multitude of words,
j nor in the effort of thought, nor in the enthusiasm of a
j heated imagination; but in the communion of the heart
j with God, of which the simplest are capable. It is not we
j that pray; it is the Holy Ghost who prays in us, who
j groans, who desires, who asks for us what we know not how
j to ask for ourselves. In the language of Holy Scripture,
j all is the action of God in man, to which man adds nothing
j but simple consent or non-resistance.
5. In proportion as man is thus united with God by
| prayer, he must be separated from the creature and from
j himself by Renunciation, which is the second means of
j attaining Divine union. The one is a necessary consequence
| of the other.
This self-denial of the Gospel does not consist in auste-
j rities which surpass human power, destroy health, and causes
j us to lead an out-of-the-way life. Jesus Christ practised
j none of these things. His life was ordinary as regards the
j outside; but inwardly it was entirely Divine. The renun-
j ciation which he sets before us leads us not only to flee from
j false pleasures, to combat our gross passions, to be contented
! with the mere necessaries of our condition, but to cut off all
74
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 14, 1879.
frivolous amusements, all mental activities, all delights of j
the imagination, which serve merely to dissipate us, and to |
keep us in the creaturely taste. The self-denial of the Gospel |
forbids us the least glance at the creature out of God, the I
least pleasure contrary to his order, the least return to a |
vain satisfaction with oneself. It causes us to love the !
lowest place, though we are born in grandeur, silence, and !
internal solitude amidst the noise and the crowd, poorness !
of spirit, and disengagement when surrounded by riches.
Nor is this all. Self-denial leads us to degrade the me—this j
idol so dear to man—to receive with joy whatever crucifies it, I
to bear the imperfections of others with patience and gentle- j
ness, our own defects with humility and peace, the purifying j
rigour of Divine justice with trust and compliance. Here is i
a universal penitence, a martyrdom of love, a mortification,
or, rather, a very death which extends to the sense, to the |
mind, to the heart, to the whole man, and which leaves no |
hiding-place for the disorderly love of the creature, or !
of self.
6. In this constant prayer, and in this Gospel self-denial,
consist all the mysteries of the inner life.
The first operation of God is sensible, agreeable, and full j
of pleasures. It leads the soul to act, to fight, to exercise i
itself in all the works of active virtue, and of external modi- j
fication, in order to disengage itself from foreign objects, i
It is the foundation of the interior life, without which I
all spirituality should be inspected. We then feel in I
prayer a sweet unction and a savoury delight. We mortify j
ourselves with a noble and masculine vigour. The soul j
sees its virtue, is sustained by its work, is charmed by its |
courage.
7. Afterwards God begins in it another operation in which !
it is entirely passive, in which it co-operates only by its j
trust. The me is now to be destroyed, and God only can do j
this. The soul no longer fights without; God attacks it from
within to cause it to die to itself. He shows it its own depths; j
He shows it all the convolutions of its self-love; He unveils j
all its mysteries. It sees itself; it is horrified at what it j
sees. Everything in it rises against itself; it no longer j
finds comfort in its old fervour or its own righteousness, all I
the impurities of which it now sees. It gives way in ex- j
haustion, it remains faithful without seeing its fidelity, j
Nothing remains to it but the firm determination to suffer a i
thousand deaths rather than displease God. Still, it does j
not always possess the consolation of perceiving this determi- j
nation in itself. The action of God becoming less trammelled, |
more intimate, and more central, seems more and more to j <
disappear, but it is not less real. As that pure and universal I!
light which lightens, penetrates, and moves all bodies, is itself j1
imperceptible to our coarse eyes, or as the self-love which is j i
unceasingly active in the natural man is not always to be ' j j
distinguished, so the Word, who is the life, the light, and j1
the love of all intelligences, acts in the supernatural man, very 11
really, though in an insensible manner.
8. God’s design in thus acting is to hide his operation i
from our self-love, which having lost the taste for impure i
pleasures, for sensible objects, and gross passions, would j
establish a new empire over our very virtues, would take i
delight in its own excellence, and would corrupt the divine
action by an idolatry of itself, all the more dangerous as it j
is more refined. The man would not sin perhaps as a man, !
but he would sin as a demon by pride and vain satisfaction, j
For this reason the most advanced states of spiritual life j
are full of temptations, troubles, privations, dryness, j
uncertainty, misery, obscurity, desolation and interior suffer- j
ing, until the empire of self-love is destroyed, and the reign
of God, who is within us, is established in the soul. |
9. Then disperses that riotous crowd of vague thoughts j
and turbulent passions which puts the natural man in a j
constant frenzy. The mind is delivered from all its j
useless activities, the will from all its disturbing j
agitations, and the whole soul is brought into a peace, j
into an emptiness, into a divine solitude, in which the j
senses, and the imagination, the man’s own mind, and his j
own will keep silence, to listen to the Eternal Wisdom, j
which speaks to the heart not by visions, nor by revelations, j
nor by sublime knowledge, nor by subtle speculations, but a j
language far more perfect and less liable to illusion, viz., the
allness of God, and the nothingness of the creature, and the 1'
profound homage which the nothing owes to the all. Then
the man no longer lives of his own life, but Jesus Christ
lives in him. He is born again and becomes a child, without
a mind and will of its own.
The light of the word becomes his only light, and the love
of the Holt Spirit his only love. His life is hid with Jesus
Christ in God, and this new life takes the place of the old
life of Adam. This is the regeneration spoken of in the
Gospel.
There are the three states of the spiritual life which the
Mystics call Purgative, Illuminative, and Unitive, and which
Madame Guyon calls active, passive, and Divine; that is,
the renunciation of gross vices, the destruction of self-love,
and the re-establishment of the Divine order by pure love.
10. We have given the substance of all this lady’s ex¬
periences. Such was the character of her devotion. Such
are the truths which fill her writings. Eternal truths
founded upon sovereign reason—truths which supreme
wisdom would teach equally to all right minds and all
humble hearts, supposing there were no revelation; truths
known from the commencement of the world to the holy
patriarchs ; truths drawn from the Gospel, and which would
be discovered there if the seeker knew the gift of God, and
if he resembled those babes and simple ones to whom God’s
mysteries are made known; truths which are found more or
less developed in the writings of the most holy fathers of
antiquity, in S. Ignatius, in S. Clement of Alexandria, in S.
Basil, in S. Ambrose, in S. John Chrysostom, in S.
Augustine, &c.; truths with which the great hermits have
been fed in the most terrible deserts; truths with which the
great founders of orders, like S. Francis of Assisi, S.
Bernard, S. Theresa, the B. John of the Cross, S. Francis of
Sales have in various ages renewed the fall of the Church;
truths which have induced an infinite number of virgins
and monks to bury themselves alive in solitude in order to
give themselves up to those purifying actions of Divinity
which, the noise of the world and the care of terrestrial
matters only too often disturb ; truths taught by the most
enlightened doctors of the Church, such as Albert the Great,
S. Thomas, S. Bonaventure, Grenade, Rodrigues, Sylvius,
Cardinal Bona, Gerson, and many others ; truths, in fine,
whose tradition is universal and unchangeable in all times
and all places.— Translated by A. Vacker from an old French
book.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
The first article in the January number of the Psycho¬
logical Review is by Mr. Epes Sargent, and is entitled “ Is
Immortality a Delusion ?” It lays bare the sophistries of
Mr. Leslie Stephen, published in a late number of the Fort¬
nightly Review. (i Sister Celeste,” the next article, depicts
a character of that type of mystical Spiritualism, of gentle,
kindly piety and liberal catholic saintliness, with which u J.
C. E.” always seems to be in sympathy. “ Spiritual Philo¬
sophy in Relation to Death and Spirit Life,” by John Page
Hopps, is followed by u Inspiration No. II. The Work of
the Symbol,” by Mrs. De Morgan. This is the continuation
of an article on Symbolism in a previous number, of which
it is mainly a fuller explanation and amplification. u Re¬
miniscences of the Late George Thompson,” by his married
daughter, Mrs. Nosworthy, is an attractive and interesting
article. George Thompson was not only an earnest philan¬
thropist and reformer, but one of the most gifted and
eloquent men of the generation now passing away. He was
not only a Spiritualist for more than a quarter of a century,
but was so deeply interested in Spiritualism that his daughter
records it to have been the most prominent topic of con¬
versation with him. She also relates that his friend and co¬
worker, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, shared many of his experi¬
ences, and fully entertained his convictions on this subject.
His profound assurance of the truth of Spiritualism was
solemn and unwavering to the end. His last public appear¬
ance was on the platform with the well-known trance
speaker, Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, previous to her departure
for the United States. u Zetalethes, the Truth Seeker,” is
a story which the writer tells us began and finished itself.
It came from his pen, but not from his mind. It is a story,
and something more, reminding one of the Vision of
Feb, 14, 1879.
75
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Mirza, by the side of which it might not unworthily be j j
placed as a fit companion. It is both interesting in itself ! j
and as a psychological curiosity, though probably composi- | !
tions so produced are far more frequent than the general iji
reader would imagine. u The Mound Builders,” by Mr. j |
William Denton, is an example of the wonderful power of j j
psychometry, and it is remarkable that this strange gift, j j
which enables its possessor to occasionally read with accu- j I
racy the history of the past, should not have been investi- j !
gated more extensively to eliminate the sources of error, j |
An article on “ Montanism,” and some correspondence, | I
concludes the number. * j j
In conclusion we quote from the Review Mrs. Nos worthy’s j |
description of the last days of George Thompson:— | j
u Last winter the various periodicals of the spiritual press, | |
William White’s Life and Writings of Swedenborg, and the j |
Christian literature of the day, were all carefully read and I j
often underlined by him. But as the flowers of spring j |
appeared a change came over him ; memory failed, and a j j
dreamy state of the brain was evident. As summer advanced ! |
the change was more marked; and as the autumn leaves fell, j |
I could see that my father’s summons was approaching, that j j
his transition was very near, and I determined never to leave |
him whilst his earth life continued; but I knew not how j j
very near the end was when I gave him a promise to this j j
effect in the quietude of his study where I sat reading from | j
Lizzie Doten’s Poems of the Inner Life. Paralysis had by j j
this time so affected his powers of articulation that he was j j
often speechless, and could rarely utter more than a very j j
short sentence. Once after reading by his bedside, when he to
had retired to rest (as was my custom), from the New Tes- j |
tament, I chose John xiv., a favourite chapter of mine, in | j
which these words occur, ‘ Ye have heard how I said unto | j
you, I go away, and come again unto you,’ and keeping j j
silent for awhile, I said (not expecting an answer, for my j
sister and I talked to him without looking for replies), j ]
i Papa, you are going away from us, but will you try and | j
come again and give us tokens of your presence?’ To my I
surprise he raised himself up with unnatural strength, and | j
pronounced these words firmly and powerfully, ‘ I will come I I
back and manifest myself if it be possible' Another time he j j
said, ‘ It is my opinion that the communion between this j j
and the next world will become more and more intimate.’ j j j
The saqred scenes between George Thompson and his j \
children at parting will be passed by here ; suffice it to say | j
that amongst the few isolated sentences he was able to utter j j
during the last weeks of earthly life, the two recorded j j
were the most earnestly expressed, and the most distinctly ! j
pronounced. i |
“ Not many days after, he was dressed and seated at his j j
table for the last time, books and papers being, as usual, | |
placed around him, but he took but little notice of them, | !
and drooped so much that I supported his head for a long | |
time on my shoulder. I saw that day that there was a great j j
accession of feebleness, and observed, ‘ Dear papa, are you j j
growing very weary, and longing to go home ? ’ A speaking j |
upward glance of affirmation was his reply, and he retired j j i
that evening to realise the promise on which his soul had j j
dwelt lovingly for years, 4 He giveth His beloved sleep.’ j j
He never spoke to us again, but lay tranquilly sleeping for j j
two entire days, at the end of which his transition took place | i
in such beauty, that I can truly apply to it some lines I find j j
copied in his own writing in a book of extracts.
How wonderful is death ! j j |
The wakener of the soul! j j
His eyes are full of sleep, j j I
His heart is full of love, | (j
His touch is full of peace. j j j
- Gently the languid motion j | ]
Of every pulse subsides, I j J
Gliding from out the body he has worn, j | j
Without a jar to break j < I
The mystic strain of harmony that winds i):
With sense-dissolving music through the soul. ;) j
We are at liberty! j j j
“ My father was occasionally moved to throw off little im- | f
promptu poems; I offer one here which he wrote on the | I
death of an infant at sea. It is dated 1834, and shows me | j
that at that distant date, forty-four years ago, the tendency | i 1
to Spiritualism lay at his heart. jjj
I saw a smiling infant boy
With beauty’s bloom upon his cheek.
I saw disease that bloom destroy ;
I saw him wither in a week.
I saw the tear of anguish start
Into a watchful mother’s eye.
I marked the workings of her heart
As the dread hour of death drew nigh.
And when the spark of life had fled,
And friends bereaved were left to weep,
I saw the unconscious waves receive
A guiltless tenant to the deep. ,
I thought an angel tracked the clay
To its unfathomed ocean cell;
Then mounting to the realms of day,
Brought back the tidings, “ All is well.”
Supremely blest and safely free
The spirit of the child abides ;
Though his frail mortal dust may be
Absorbed beneath the rolling tides.
And from his radiant home on high
He sends to those who mourn on earth
This message: ‘ Let your tears be dry,
And celebrate my nobler birth.
And if in heaven you wish to claim
A son or brother lost below,
Have faith in Christ’s redeeming name.
And you shall my salvation know.’
George Thompson.
u In the album where I found the foregoing verses, I also
find these addressed to ‘ George Thompson by Wm. Lloyd
Garrison,’ under which my father writes, ‘ Applicable to no
one I know so much as to
The Writer,’
whose language I can truly adopt towards himself.
Friend of mankind ! for thee I fondly cherish
The exuberance of a brother’s glowing love;
And never in my memory shall perish
Thy name or worth, so time shall truly prove.
Thy spirit is more gentle than a dove,
Yet hath an angel’s energy and scope;
Its flight is towering as the heaven above,
And with the outstretched earth doth bravely cope.
Thou standest on an eminence so high,
All nations congregate around its base ;
There with a kindling soul and piercing eye,
The wrongs and sufferings of thy race dost trace.
Thy country is the world, thou know’st no other,
And every man in every clime thy Brother.
PRIVATE SEANCES.
Last Wednesday night, at a seance held at the house of Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London,
Mr. C. E. Williams was the medium. During the seance, which took
place in the dark, the hands of Mr. Williams were held by Mrs.
Wiseman, of 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, on the one side, and by Mr.
Annesley Mayne, of the Junior Carlton Club, on the other. The
other sitters were Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mias
Mattie Houghton, Mrs. Paul, Mrs. Ramsay, and Mr. Harrison.
The chief test the public would care to know about was that a
materialised hand took the hand of Mr. Serjeant Cox, drawing him
upwards, until he was obliged to stand with his feet on the top of the
table to follow it. He then placed his hand against the ceiling, and
asked the materialised hand to tap it while there. After a delay of a
minute or two this was done; the sitters on either side of the medium
testified that at that moment they were holding his hands.
A chair was afterwards placed on the table so noiselessly that
nobody knew that it was there till a light was struck.
At a seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s on the preceding
Wednesday, Lady X. (who does not wish her name to be published),
Colonel Hopkinson, and Mrs. Triibner were present in addition. Mrs.
Paul was absent. The spirit “ Peter ” showed himself well, over the
table, robed in white, and with a phosphorescent-like light in his
hands, by which his palpably living features were seen. Lady X.
and Mrs. Ramsay testified at the time that they were then and there
holding both the hands of Mr. Williams.
A materialised hand drew the hand of Mr. Cox so high in the air
that he was obliged to kneel on the table to follow it.
An attempt to manifest was made by a spirit who gave a name
known to one of the sitters, but without much success. Three of the
sitters grew icy cold during the attempt, showing that vitality was
drawn from t“em in some way.
76
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 14, 1879.
■WHERE IS MRS. TRANTER ? |
On the 15th of January, 1872, the late Mr. G-uppy printed ||
the following communication in The Spiritualist about the j
imprisonment for five years of Mrs. Tranter, for what may |
or may not have been true clairvoyance. At that time ||
Spiritualism was a smaller and weaker movement than it is |
now, or the case would haive been thoroughly investigated, j \
Is it too late to do so now? It will be noticed that on one j)
occasion lost goods are said to have been recovered through j
Mrs. Tranter’s instrumentality. \\
About the 1st of November, I read the following in the I
Daily Telegraph:— jj
Witchcraft at Newbury.—[By Telegraph.]—Yesterday, the Re- If
corder for Newbury (Mr. Dowdeswell) sentenced’ a woman named jj
Tranter to five years’ penal servitude, for having obtained a sum of j)
money by false pretences from Emma Gregory, a woman living in a wild j j j
district in North Hants. Gregory and another woman lost some goods j j i
while returning from Reading market a fortnight ago, and, having heard jj)
of the power said to be possessed by the prisoner, who was called the j j j
“ cunning woman of Newbury,” went to consult her. Prisoner told | j j
them she could recover the lost goods. She went through an absurd j) I
ceremony, and pretended to bring the image of the man who had stolen | j I
the things in a glass which she produced. She said she ruled the stars, j j
and if the nights were fine she would be able to get the lost things back j |
the sooner. The women paid her a shilling each, and promised to give | f
her more when the property was restored. The prisoner has been con- j j
victed on six or seven occasions for offences of a like nature. The | j
Recorder said that such practices as those by which the prisoner had I j j
gained a livelihood for many years past were a scandal to society. j j j
At first it appeared to me an illusion. Again and again I j j
read it. “ Five years’ penal servitude !” An elderly woman, j |
no doubt. I imagined a kind of Mrs. Gamp, taken from j j
her comfortable home at a period of life, perhaps, when j j
failing health demands every comfort. I began to reflect on j j
the principles of punishment. Moses says, fi An eye for an | j
eye, and a tooth for a tooth.” Offences, I reasoned, are j j
either against the person, property, or the interests of ill
society; for instance, a man steals a sheep, the farmer is j |
injured forty shillings, but society is injured, because if j j
sheep-stealing were not punished, no man could keep sheep, j j
and we could have no mutton. If one of those fellows who j j
have lately received forty lashes breaks into a house, half I j
murders the inhabitants, and steals property, there is a j
threefold offence—personal injury, robbery of goods, and an j
offence to the nation ; neither life nor property would be j j i
secure, and therefore such crime must be prevented by the j j
Government at any expense of severity. Forgery, also, I j
though it be but for £1, and does not bodily damage any- j j
one, would produce such baneful effects in society, that no j j
means would be too strong if necessary to prevent it. But, j j
I reflected, to warrant punishment one of three things must j |
occur—damage to the person, robbery or damage of property, j |
or damage to the nation. , ’ j j J
Now this woman had told fortunes, or given advice, true j j
or false, about recovery of stolen goods. A servant-maid, , I j ]
or a carriage lady, goes to her, consults her, and pays a j j
shilling or half a crown. She pretends to rule the stars. | j
Well, the Pope pretends to infallibility. However, these j-| j
parties are not injured in person, and if they preferred I
spending the shilling or half a crown with her, or in a play- I I
house, or in a gin-shop, what grounds for punishment exist ? j j
I determined I would go to Newbury and inquire, and, not I j
knowing anyone there, I took the liberty of requesting Mr. j I
Serjeant Cox to give me such certificate of respectability as j |
would entitle me to a hearing either from the Clerk of the | I
Court or any solicitor. Further, I asked my lawyer for an j r
extract of the laws on witchcraft, which I here copy :— j j
Witchcraft.—Person pretending to exercise or use any kind of witch- i) j
craft, sorcery, enchantment, or conjuration, or undertaking to tell jji
fortunes, or pretending, from his skill or knowledge in any occult or j j
crafty science, to discover where or in what manner any goods or chattels j | j
supposed to have been stolen or lost may be found. Offence.—Misde- j j j
meanour. ,1 j I
Statute or Authority.—9 George II., cap. 5, sec. 4. Triable at the i j
Sessions. Bail is compulsory. Punishment—Imprisonment for a year, j j ;
and sureties for good behaviour; or indictable, as for false pretences, i j ;
Costs of prosecution not allowed. j j j
False Pretences.—24 and 25 Vic., cap. 96, sec. 88. Penal servitude j 1 j
for five years, or imprisonment not exceeding two years, with or without j 1 I
hard labour. ' j j l
Meanwhile I fell very ill with inflammation of the lungs, j j |
which prevented my quitting the house—meanwhile, I could j j I
not get Mrs. Tranter out of my head. V ill
If, thought I, the punishment is just, of course the life of
an old woman or a thousand old women is of no conse¬
quence. But if she has done no harm to anybody, nor
robbed anybody, then is the punishment of life-long im¬
prisonment with labour, torn from all her old cronies, de¬
prived of all the little comforts of old age—it’s not a
punishment; for if in the eyes of enlightened men, con¬
versant with social science, this woman has done nothing
worthy of any punishment whatever, then has a great crime
been committed by the machine called ‘‘law.” I do not
blame Recorder DowdeswelL—he is a benefactor to his
country. When General Grant was made President of the
United States, he said to Congress: “ The laws you enact
I shall enforce, for I know of no way so effectual to procure
the abolition of a bad law as the stern enforcement of it.”
That President Grant threw out another way of light the
other day; he said that the way to advance a nation is to
improve the condition of the working classes.
As my health did not permit me to go, and the sun would
not permit my neighbour Hudson to photograph, I asked
him to run down to Newbury, furnishing him with Serjeant
Cox’s letter to me, and my authority to him, and the follow¬
ing is his report on the case, and also a letter from Mr.
Slocock, the banker:—
DEPOSITION OF MR. HUDSON.
January bth.—Went to Newbury by the 10.15 train, and called upon
Mr. Matthews, hairdresser. He told me had known Mrs. Tranter for
twenty years; never heard anything against her excepting telling
fortunes; said she was a sort of monthly nurse, and always willing to
attend any poor person with fever, free of charge: might accept pay¬
ment if the people could afford it. Said that not only he, but every one
in the town, thought the punishment very severe: ought to have been
two years at the outside, because she had eighteen months before.
I then went to the “ Dolphin ’’ Inn; saw the landlord, Mr. Statey, and
Mrs. Statey, who said they had seen her about for a number of years ; had
never heard anything against her with the exception of this fortune telling.
They said she was a sober, hard-working woman; was a midwife, but
also went to nurse any poor persons. They directed me to Mr. Brown,
builder. He said he had known Mrs. Tranter from a child; had never
known anything against her; she had been his neighbour for very many
years ; was not given to liquor ; always a respectable-looking woman ;
heard that she told fortunes with two glasses; he said “a sort of globes; ”
he had not seen them; said his opinion was that the persons who
called were two detectives who implicated her; said he heard that she
often had visitors, and that he had heard that carriage people called on
her; said he had been on the jury previously when she had eighteen
months in prison for the same thing; said that the Recorder had said on
that occasion that if ever that woman came before him again he would
make an example of her.
I then found Tranter, the husband, a bricklayer’s labourer, who
works for Mr. Brown. He said many persons called on her, some who
kept their carriage, but he was never allowed in the room, nor did he
know what fee or charge she made, but thinks she took anything people
chose to give her; he said she had not money enough to employ
counsel; he said her age was 58; that she had a son by a former
marriage with a Mr. Giles, who is now in the police force in London,
and a daughter who is in an asylum. He said his wife was in Reading
Gaol, and could not be seen by any one till the end of three months,
when she would be removed ; he said that he and she would feel most
thankful to any one who could procure a mitigation of sentence.
I called subsequently on Mr. Matthews, the hairdresser, who gave
me The Newbury Weekly News, wherein is the following letter from
Mr. Slocock, the banker, of Newbury :—
| THE CASE OF MARIA GILES, ALIAS TRANTER,
ff To the Editor of the ‘ Newbury Weekly News.'
“ Sir,—An impression seems to have got abroad that the sentence
passed by the Recorder of Newbury at his last Quarter Sessions, on
Maria Giles, alias Tranter, was unreasonably severe, and a petition was,
I believe, presented to the Home Secretary for remission of the punish¬
ment, as being out of proportion to the offence. He has, however, I am
informed, declined to interfere, thereby confirming, in his opinion, the
justice of the sentence. Perhaps your readers are not aware that she
had been convicted and sentenced to various periods of imprisonment on
seven previous occasions, and on the three last to eighteen months,
twelve months, and eighteen months, for similar offences, and might
fairly be considered as incorrigible. I think, therefore, in justice to the
Recorder, this should.be known. I know that it was not without deep
consideration that he felt it his duty to pass so severe a sentence. He
was staying with me at the time, and had the depositions sent up to him
to read, and it seemed to him so clear, after the many imprisonments the
prisoner had undergone, that there was little or no hope of reformation,
and he therefore determined, if she were found guilty, to pass such a
sentence as would prevent the credulous being victimised by her for at
all events a considerable time to come—a determination in which I
confess I quite coincided. I have purposely abstained from any remark
while the case was before the Home Secretary, though I could not at all
agree in the propriety of the petition.—I am, sir, yours faithfully,
“Charles S. Slocock.
“ Dounington, December 18,1871.
Feb. 14, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
77
The universal feeling of every person I spoke with at Newbury was
that Mrs. Tranter was a sober, well-conducted woman, ever ready to
assist sick persons—not being deterred by any sickness or fever. As
regards the fortune-telling, &c., Mrs. Brian said that she believed that
on one occasion the lost things had been recovered through her instru¬
mentality. People seemed to think that she could not have got much
money by it, because she could not afford to employ counsel.
I have placed the case in the most unfavourable light.
Seven times has this woman been convicted, otherwise a
most exemplary woman. But again, I ask, supposing in
every street in London there was a cunning woman who told
fortunes and gave advice about stolen property, where is the
injury to person or property warranting any punishment
whatever ? As to witchcraft, if witches and wizards are
punishable, then all the committee of the Dialectical Society
are punishable.
Reading Serjeant Cox’s able pamphlet entitled Spirit¬
ualism Answered by Science^ I see at the end an advertise¬
ment of books by the same author of a work, The Principles
of Punishment. I sent for it to-day, wishing to see how far
the learned Serjeant’s ideas would justify the probably life¬
long imprisonment, with hard labour, of Mrs. Tranter, but I
am told the book will not be out for some days. My own
opinion is, referring to Mr. Slocock’s letter, that Mr. Bruce
is not the person to go to—it’s Mr. Law.
The first thing we have to find out is whether, in the
opinion of highly-educated men, there was any ground for
imprisoning this woman at all. If there were not, the law
ought not to exist a single hour longer than would suffice to
blot it out from the statute-book as a stain on the national
character. And after that would come the consideration
what damages should be awarded to Mrs. Tranter.
As you will not give me any more room, I defer further
remarks to your next number, by which time I shall have
opinions which may have greater weight than mine.
Samuel Guppy.
Jan. 10,1872. ' j 
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN CAPE TOWN.
(To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”)
Sir,—Thinking you might consider the undermentioned
account of a seance, held in Cape Town, worthy of publica¬
tion, I have much pleasure in furnishing full particulars.
The stance, as will be seen, was quite an improvised one.
Mr. W. Eglinton, the well-known medium, two ladies (one
a medium), and myself were engaged in a rubber at whist I
at my house, when, as usual, “Joey,” one of Mr. Eglinton’s
controls, made himself known by raps on the polished
drawing-room floor, some distance from the medium. As j
we played on we kept up a lively conversation with “Joey,”
who seemed to enjoy selecting, in some mysterious manner,
all the best cards for his medium, although I repeatedly i
endeavoured to thwart him. We had played about an hour,
when an arm-chair, placed about five feet from the table, |
and known as “Joey’s seat,” was heard to move. We ]
closely watched it, and found it was first moved one side j
forward, then the other, as if some one was pulling it near
the table. Shortly afterwards the influence seemed to have !
gained sufficient power, and a direct forward movement was j
given to the chair, and eventually it was rim up close to the j
table. We put it back again, but “Joey” emphatically j
demanded his seat at the table by again moving it into j
position. We were naturally delighted with our good friend j
“Joey’s” presence. Shortly afterwards, as we were taking
some refreshment, the table began to rock and bump about j
in a most delighted manner. Mr. Eglinton suggested that i
we should sit for further manifestations. “Joey” hammered
out his approval of this, and we cleared for action. We
lowered the light a little—which had hitherto been burning j
full light—the table was at once taken up, turned over, and
evidently handled with the greatest ease by the controls. A
fancy cover on one of the chairs at some distance from the j
table was taken of and thrown in my face, our chairs were
grasped and pulled about, and each sitter was touched with j
hands of difi'erent strength and size. Two large volumes of j
Punch were taken up in the air, and one dropped flat on Mr.
Eglinton’s head and the other on my hands; the grips we j
frequently got were particularly strong, and I believe the !
hands were larger than, those of any mortal. Cushions I
were drawn from our chairs and thrown at us ; a large chair
was laid across the table, and, at our request, again taken
off with ease and placed in a distant part of the room. In¬
deed, our friends appeared to be having a grand field day
of it. The table was now drawn nearer the piano, and also
nearer the light, which was still burning sufficiently for us
to distinguish each other plainly. I distinctly saw a coated
arm, and large muscular hand stretched out from the
medium’s body, and grasp the piano leg and draw it nearer
the table; so plain was this that I did not think of
materialisation until I felt the medium’s hand on my own. I
again and again saw the same hand and arm draw the piano
until it was quite close to me ; then it flashed across ine that
the arm which completely intercepted the light of the lamp
was not mortal. Mr. Eglinton also saw this arm and hand
raised behind the piano; the instrument now began to play,
and during the evening “Joey,” with single notes, played
four or five different tunes. They were correctly played
throughout.
After we received the signal to break up, and had turned
on the full light, what a chaos the room presented: portable
couches were turned up and doubled into their smallest
dimensions; cushions, cards, &c., &c., strewed the floor. We
got things ship-shape again, and in the light my pipe was
visibly brought across the room to me through mid-air, and
another object thrown at someone else.
Shortly afterwards, going upstairs to view some birds, a
pack of cards, which I had left downstairs, was thrown
violently against the wall opposite one of the ladies. It was
“ Joey ” again at work. Upon picking up the cards, fifteen
were found to be missing. The cards, be it remembered,
were coloured pink on the backs. We again went below,
but did not discover them.
Mr. Eglinton and myself now set out to escort our lady
visitor home. We had got about one hundred yards from the
house when something white was hurled from above down
upon us. It was part of another pack of cards, with white
backs. A strong south-east wind was blowing at this time,
and we had a hurried scramble for the cards. We decided to
go back and ascertain if we had all. We found the remainder
of the pack in my drawing-room, and they completed the
number wanting. We again started. Let me say I wore a
patrol cap, Mr. Eglinton an ordinary hard felt hat; or,
rather, he tried to wear one, for our lively friend “ Joey ”
occasionally sent it flying off into the street. I felt it advis¬
able myself to come to anchor and hold on, as I wondered
where the power would end. Upon reaching the home of
our lady friend, a black object shot swiftly past us, and fell
some yards in front of us. 1 cautiously picked up that object,
and found it was my Glengarry cap, which I know was
hanging in the entrance hall as we passed through. At this
moment Mr. Eglinton’s hat again went off on a cruise into
the street.
Bidding adieu to our charge, I accompanied Mr. Eglinton
home. No further events took place, and I returned to my
home delighted with the manifestations we had received.
They were manifestations of a very high physical nature, and
long may our good friends prove to the world that, though
these manifestations may be of little value in themselves,
they are invaluable as the stepping-stones in the instruction
of honest seekers after truth in this wonderful science.
I may mention that the missing cards (coloured pink)
were found at the medium’s dwelling-place, early- the
following morning, before he had risen; they were neatly
arranged, leaning against a book-case, with two Jacks in a
prominent position. . M.
Cape Town, South Africa. ■
(To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”)
Sir,—Knowing that the columns of your valuable paper
are ever open to information and suggestions that may
further the great cause of Spiritualism, I venture to send
you herewith particulars of an experiment which I am
ambitious enough to hope may in some degree assist in
strengthening the hands of those working for our cause.
The diagram of the instrument I send you is simply a
partially suspended planchette.
My idea was to construct an instrument that could be
intelligently controlled without [mortal contact; after several
78
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 14, 1879.
plans I decided upon constructing the one now referred to. A
few words will explain its construction.
The whole instrument is made of light, dry, and close-
grained cedar wood, except the small steel pin upon which
the planchette revolves, the little porcelain cup in which
the point works, and three ivory wheels. These wheels, it
must be understood, do not bear the full weight of'the
instrument; they are simply intended to take only just
enough weight to prevent the disc from being influenced by
any draught of air, and also to prevent the revolutions of the
instrument from passing any required stopping point, which
a perfectly suspended disc would do. Too much care cannot
be bestowed upon this part of the arrangement.
The support is simply a square, thin piece of wood with a
light perpendicular rod, at the top of which is fixed a steel
pin to receive the partial weight of the planchette. Under¬
neath the point at which the three suspenders meet is fixed
a small piece of wood containing a porcelain cup. This is
intended to enable the point of the pivot to work smoothly.
Any similar contrivance would doubtless answer as well. The
support is then passed through the opening in the centre of
the disc, and the planchette hung in its place. The top of
the disc and outer edges of the suspenders are painted a clean
white. This enables investigators to see the instrument
clearly in a very subdued light. A pointer is fixed on the disc.
As seen in the sketch the planchette is arranged with a view
to get the under surface of the disc as near the table as
possible. The object of this will readily be understood by
Spiritualistic students.
Round the planchette, printed on the table if possible,
should be marked the alphabet, and any other signs and
words that may be deemed necessary.
With the sketch of the instrument I give the exact size
of each part, and shall be glad to furnish any further infor¬
mation required.
I cannot too strongly advise mediums and seekers after
truth'to construct, or have constructed, one of these simple
contrivances, and to sit for special development in this
branch of the boundless study of spirit communion.
Mr. W. Eglinton, who arrived here from England some
months ago, gave many splendid seances, at which I was a
frequent sitter. Being myself a Spiritualist, I could extend
to him the hand of a brother in the Cause, and as I have
ever found him a man of honour and a gentleman, I have in
him an unshadowed confidence. To him I unfolded the
ideas connected with my little invention, and he readily and
kindly offered to sit with me in my own house in order to
fully test its merits. The result of our investigations I now
give as briefly as possible. The sitters numbered six, three
ladies and thfee gentlemen, including the medium. We
sat in a subdued light, but quite sufficient to plainly distin¬
guish the planchette. We had sat about fifteen minutes
when the disc began to revolve. At first it appeared as if
there was some difficulty in moving it, but afterwards it was
swung rapidly round, stopping dead at any required position;
answers were rapped out upon it, and a series of telegraphic
messages was frequently and rapidly given by taps with the
partly balanced disc, but which we unfortunately were not
expert enough to read off. The alphabet placed round the
planchette could not clearly be seen, but the words affixed on
the table, “ Yes” and “Ho,” were repeatedly used by the
controls, who had full power to move it, and did move it in
every possible and required direction. I must not omit to
say we all sat under test conditions, with hands all joined. I
believe that after a few seances specially devoted to this
experiment, it would be controlled and worked in full light
of day, at least through the mediumship of such a one as
Mr. W. Eglinton. I may mention that in the concluding
manifestations the planchette was moved bodily across the
table. The circle could not be considered a favourable one.
It was not a truly harmonious one, therefore one that did
not fairly assist .the controls, who are ever ready to assist us
in our pursuit after knowledge and instruction in this
glorious cause. Crusadeb.
Gape Town, December, 1878.
Miss Kislingbnry will leave the National Association of Spiritualists
on the 2oth of this month.
IN MEMORIAM.
R. T. H.
Born at Milton-on-the-Hudson, November 26,1806 ; died at New York, January 18,1879.
I.
He is not dead—he sleeps; and he shall wake—
Wake to new joy, new triumph, and new power ;
Wake to receive his birthright and his dower.
Soon will the everlasting morning break,
Soon will the mists and clouds his soul forsake,
And there, mid leafy glade and sunny bower,
Shall live each tree and bloom each sweet, bright flower
He loved on earth, his heart’s home to re-make.
We weep ; but when for him that sun shall rise,
We shall forget our grief and earth-born pain,
And watch the dawn with glad expectant eyes
That shall restore our dead to life again:
As come bright birds along the summer skies,
As bloom bright flowers after the summer’s rain.
II.
I sing of joy, dear Father! all for thee.
No sob of mine shall mar the angels’ song;
No tear of mine shall do thy spirit wrong.
Did’st thou not know of love’s eternity ?
Death hath but crowned thee, Death hath set thee free !
Thou art thyself—thyself, freed, great and strong,
With all the powers which to thy soul belong,
And visions which no earthly eye can see.
We knew thy truth; we knew thy heart of gold,
Rich with its wealth of love for all mankind;
Rich with its treasures of life manifold—
Those hidden treasures hard to seek and find.
In vain they tell me that that heart is cold;
In vain, in vain, that those dear eyes are blind!
III.
We know “ He giveth his beloved sleep,”
And that for them a place hath been prepared.
We who with thee our earthly love have shared
Know well that Heavenly Love thy soul will keep.
Rest, rest, beloved one, in sweet slumber deep—
The sleep of earth is not to be compared
With heavenly rest which hath thy spirit snared,
And called thee hence as shepherd calls his sheep.
The pang of parting from thee lingers yet,
The joy of meeting thee is yet to be ;
Forgive me if mine eyes be sometimes wet,
Forgive me if these eyes be -slow to see.-
When thou dost come we shall all grief forget,
For love, and life, and joy will come with thee !
IV.
Thou hast not left Us. No! Christ did not leave
His loved ones lonely ; surely He hath said
“ Where two or three in me are gathered
Together, there am I, ye need not grieve,
The Comforter shall come, ye shall retrieve
Your losses ; yea, and shall receive your dead.”
And thou who did’st in His own footsteps tread
Shalt come again, we cannot but believe.
For thee we know that death hath had no sting,
No victory the grave, and blest art thou !
Therefore for thee no dirges will we sing,
But only lay red roses on thy brow;
And all sad shows of grief aside we fling—
Thou can’st not leave us, thou art with us now !
Ella Dietz.
Feb. 6, 1879.
The Miracle of La Salette.—A clerical organ at Toulouse an¬
nounces that the Pope has pronounced against the alleged miracle of
La Salette. All representations, therefore, of the appearance of the
Virgin in peasant costume to two children are no longer to be objects of
adoration, but are to be removed and destroyed. It appears that Melanie
Giraud, one of the heroines of the affair, had lived for some years on
the coast near Naples, and had professed to receive revelations and
visions, which found many believers. The Pope lately summoned her
to Rome, subjected her to a severe cross-examination, and at last
extracted an admission that she and her brother had played a concocted
role. The latter was at one time a Papal Zouave, and addicted to
drunkenness ; but even in that condition always told the same story as
to the apparition, which was considered an additional proof of its
genuineness.
Feb. 14, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
79
(Sotresponneuce.
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Prefer ewe is given to letters which
are not anonymous.'] ,  \—
THE “BLOODY SWEAT.”
Sir,—Alford, in his comment'on Luke xxii. 44, says : “ The intention
of the Evangelist seems clearly to be to convey the idea that the sweat
was {not fell like, but was) like drops of Hood f—i.e., coloured with blood
—for so I understand the as it were, as just distinguishing the
drops highly coloured with blood from pure blood. Aristotle, speaking
of certain morbid states of the blood, says, ‘ When the blood is watery
grievous disease ensues; for it becomes serous and milky to such an
extent that some have been known to perspire a bloody sweat.’ 
We must not forget in asking on what testimony this rests, that the
marks of such drops would be visible after the termination of the
agony. An interesting example of a sweat of blood under circum¬
stances of strong terror, accompanied by loss of speech, is cited in the
Medical Gazette for December, 1848. It occurred in the case of cer¬
tain Norwegian sailors in a tremendous storm.”
I have somewhere seen this phenomenon mentioned as being well-
known, and I think with cases given, but cannot now remember in
what work the passage is to be found. W. Whitear.
High-street, Hornsey, Feb. 10th, 1879.
THE RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OP SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—Dr. Carter Blake being a Homan Catholic, Mr. G. Wiese
cannot expect him to take any other view of Spiritualism; but I cannot
agree with Mr. Wiese that “ science creates conceit.” I have found
other persons quite as conceited as instructed ones, and have no
doubt but that Christ would have been very glad of learned followers,
like Paul, could He have got them, except that He was not Himself
learned, though intuitively gifted, no doubt. As for morals, we do not
see that either modern or any ancient Spiritualism has much to do with
morals. Morality, like conceit and other natural tendencies, is very
much a constitutional question, and very much independent of religious
faith and spiritisms, modern or ancient. Certainly, the idea of being
saved on account of belief and confession, and not on account of good¬
ness and good works, does not look as if the Spiritualism of Rome had
any special and very direct moral bearing ; whilst Buddhism and the
doctrines of Confucius are systems of morals without any religious
bearings.   H. G. A.
Sir,—Is not the argument as to whether Spiritualism be or be not a
religion based entirely on the fact that those who take the one side or
the other look upon it from opposite standpoints ? Emerson speaks of
man as being “that central point of which everything may be affirmed
or denied,” and something like this is true of Spiritualism. It
offers exciting mysteries to those who, above all things, like to be
astonished ; and, to the thoughtful, physical facts or mental phenomena
for investigation and study—is merely a scientific puzzle, or the founda¬
tion of a religion, as we take it and make it. We all know that a living
faith cannot be constructed from facts, as we build a church with
bricks; nor can it be made up of intellectual convictions regarding
these facts. It is “ the evidence of things not seen.” A man may be
thoroughly convinced of the reality of both physical and mental phe¬
nomena, as witnessed at our seances^ and no more build up a religion
upon these as a foundation than he could upon any other scientific or
psychological studies in which he might be engaged. And if we go a
step further, and say that those only are Spiritualists who believe in
the evidence afforded by these phenomena of a life to come, we exclude
many who, without having arrived at the same conclusions, are as
earnest seekers as ourselves after whatever truth may be hidden under
these mysterious and perplexing facts; for are we not all, as yet, inves¬
tigators only, puzzled and doubtful still on many points, and more so
in some respects than we were when we knew less about these strange
things ? Even should we thus restrict the term Spiritualist to those
who believe the phenomena to be produced by disembodied spirits, we
should find some who so believe, and yet regard the power as emanating
from a diabolical source, and therefore dangerous and to be avoided.
And even this difference may be regarded as one of degree only, since
so very many of the most faithful among us feel that Swedenborg’s
warning against .careless and indiscriminate intercourse with returning
spirits as dangerous was not without reason. We have Christians who
believe in Christ as one with God, and others who regard Him as mere
man, whose teachings should be followed only because they are intrinsi¬
cally good and true. Christians who believe in the atonement as essen¬
tial to salvation, and others who consider it a false and mischievous
doctrine. Those who believe in eternal hell, and those who have faith
in the law of progression, here and hereafter, for all God’s creatures.
While as to true religion, or morality, we cannot anywhere find greater
diversity, or a sadder deficiency than exists among those known as a
Christian people. We cannot draw a dividing line, and say this
man is not properly a Christian or a Spiritualist, because he does not
believe what we are sure that Christ taught, or that Spiritualism teaches ;
and such an one is not to be so designated because he does not, in our
opinion, make his belief a true religion and the guide of his actions.
So it is with every distinctive name which embraces large numbers of
people. We cannot fit it to every individual, nor make all what we
think that, claiming or accepting it, they ought to be. We have to bear
one another’s burdens in this, as in many other ways ; and as Chris¬
tianity is held answerable by some unbelievers for the evil which exists
among so-called Christians, so will Spiritualism be held responsible, by
the thoughtless and ignorant, for all that is done and taught in its name.
And, after all, these things, being inevitable, should not trouble us,
except as we must always be troubled by what seems to us false and
evil. We can only, as individuals, strive to teach, not only in words
but by our lives, what we hold to be true and good; and in making
Spiritualism, for ourselves, the foundation of a pure and religious life—
the rich and well-weeded soil from which the stainless and fragrant lily
of faith may spring—we shall be doing our part in purifying it from the
evils which cloud its light and darken its fair fame. To save it from
being tarnished by sin and vulgarised by ignorance, we cannot do.
Nothing can come down into this earthly plane and be kept pure from
earthly stain. Spiritualism, too, must be mocked and spit upon,
crowned with thorns, and burdened with its heavy cross ; and we cannot
lift it above what all things high and pure have to suffer in this blind
and sinful world, where prophets are stoned and martyrs tortured, and
holiest names profaned to vilest uses. What we can do is to be ourselves
i faithful to the truths so wonderfully revealed by it to us, and to let our
I light so shine before men that through our good lives, and our wise and
i charitable words, its teachings may be justified. I think it would do
! more harm than good to make invidious distinctions and arbitrary
| boundary lines, by way of distinguishing those who should be called
| 1 Spiritualists from those who should not. We all know that the faith,
i | which alone, after all, makes Spiritualism a matter of vital import to us,
I ] does not depend on what we have witnessed in the way of facts, but on
| that interior, vitalised belief which is inseparable from the life of him who
[ | possesses it. I have seen a faith as beautiful and profound out of the ranks
| ! of Spiritualism as within them; and the Indian who kneels to the great
! spirit, or even the idolater, to whom the graven image is but the visible
| symbol of an unseen power, may be as truly religious in spirit and aspira-
/1 tion as the most learned divine or the most advanced Spiritualist. The
(| kingdom of faith and of religion is within us ; and when we better learn
j | the power of spirit through its potent influence over that which is
i earthly in ourselves, then shall we gradually become more clearsighted
| to see and understand the marvellous revelations of spirit power which
I now bewilder us; for then we shall better comprehend how will is the
(j one central, all-controlling force,' and how all that belongs to the
I external may be more or less directly moulded by it. We are all, I take
| it, more blinded by evil and selfish feeling or conceit, narrower and
|; shallower in our views on all spiritual matters, than we can—any one
| of us—fully appreciate in judging our own opinions and impressions ;
> | and since none of us can see more than “ a straight stuff bent in a
(| pool,” we should, because we desire to become, in the highest sense,
(I Spiritualists, make generous room for all who would avail themselves
(I of even one feeble and distorted ray of that light which illumines our
; ! way, lovingly helping, by patience and a just appreciation, all who need
111 (as we ourselves do) to be lifted higher and purged from prejudice and
i | ] self-love, before they can rightly see and comprehend what is revealed to
j I eyes and hearts spiritually opened to the perception and reception of
| | great and holy truths.
||I I confess that one does stand amazed before all the wild theories, the
j j manifold superstitions, and the contradictory assumptions which have
11! gathered themselves together under the banner of Spiritualism! It is
j} j as if, again, men had sought to build a tower whose top might reach
\ ( i unto Heaven, saying, t: Let us make ourselves a name lest we be scat-
111 tered abroad upon the face of the whole earth ”—and, behold! their
| j i language is confounded so that they understand not one another’s
| (| speech, and no name known in the language of any of them can be
i 11 found by which all will agree to call themselves and one another!
|) j Still, I think we are, on the whole, too much troubled about names and
i (| opinions, and that nothing would so help us all to a clearer recognition
; | ] of spiritual truth, nothing so unite us for the doing of good and useful
i /1 work, as the encouragement and development among us of a more just,
| (! kindly, and patient spirit one towards another. If we speak the truth
j in love, and listen lovingly to the words which are spoken by those who
j 11 differ with us, we shall find it easier to teach and to learn. We shall
I \ | be better understood, and shall better understand each other,
j j It is not the startling diversity of opinion, the palpable blunders
! (| made by investigators, nor even the mischievous delusions of some of
| (| the brethren that most dismay and discourage us, but the uncharitable
i j j and even rancorous spirit manifested by not a few among those of our
| ( | name and faith, both in America and here, in their discussions and
| (i dealings one with another. It is this, more than any other one thing,
|) I which needs to be amended. When we bring to bear on our thoughts,
I (I feelings, and actions a more just, liberal, and kindly spirit, we shall
j (j be less concerned and impeded by differences of opinion which must
|) | exist among men and women bound together only by interest in certain
| ( I phenomena, which to some mean one thing, and to others another.
I {i Also by the help of the same considerate and tender charity shall we be
i ) i better prepared to judge wisely and justly the much-enduring sensitives
i ( | through whom alone we can receive those revelations we so highly prize.
I 11 Open to every strong influence, tried, tempted by spirits in and out of
j) i the flesh, misjudged and insulted, unable to defend themselves by ex-
| (! planations because they know as little as we do of the powers acting
i > ] through them, surely they need to be treated with peculiar consideration,
IH if only because, in their case, there is so much to be considered which
j|| we do not fully understand. Perhaps the saying of these “undis-
i) j puted things in such a solemn way ” may appear uncalled-for, or even
j) j absurd. Let those who read all our best known spiritual papers on
| (I both sides the Atlantic judge of that.
The old, simple truths which our mothers taught us are the great
i ? I truths after all, and those which, in seeking for some new thing, we are
; (i most likely to forget or undervalue. Let those of us who are wise
:) j enough to come forward as teachers, either in print or by word of
iM mouth, or who stand prominently before the public as advocates and
; (: defenders of our faith, remember that “ though I speak with the wisdom
| > | of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding
i (i brass or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy,
i j) i and understand all mysteries, and though I have all faith so that I
j) i could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing.”
i vi Louisa Andrews.
January 22nd, 1, Bernard-street, Russell-square,
80
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 14,1879.
Sir,—For those Spiritualists who have not separated from the
churches, and for those who probably have no other means of public
worship than in the churches, I think the advantages of Spiritualism are,
on the whole, set forth fairly enough by one of your valued corre¬
spondents, who writes of Spiritualism as not only “ A sledge hammer
for breaking the skulls of materialistic sceptics,” which we have long
been taught to believe ; but also, “ An aid to religion, in enabling us to
understand conditions and doctrines of which it gives a reflection : that
its progressive spirit spheres have an analogy with purgatorial states ;
its intercourse with spirits with the Church’s communion of saints ; its
trance conditions prefigure religious ecstasy and inspiration; it throws
incur sight a portion of that which we must still, for the greater part,
hold by what theologians term faith.” I am led to think that if the
generality of churches, in return, would consent to take in as much
Spiritualism as the above describes, it would do them a vast deal of
good; and I must add that I think also they could well, as a rule,
accept so much without derogating from their position as followers of
the Bible, and which nothing but some single stereotyped dogma, such as
everlasting punishment, or vicarious self-esteem, if i may express myself
in paradox, that throw dust in their eyes for all other vision, could
hinder their acceptance of with orthodox gratitude and joy, since they
would then gain by Spiritualism evidence of inestimable benefits which
they have hidden from their eyes, though they have it in open leaves in
all their houses.
Another of your correspondents—one, indeed, whose teachings few
can regard with more respect and admiration than myself—thinks that
the writer who defines the advantages of Spiritualism as above, does
not expect for Spiritualism anything better than that it should be a
crutch to prop up all forms of faith. Still, he acknowledges that these old
forms want it badly; so it would be well if we could persuade the followers
of those old forms to use this crutch, which on the whole seems a good
crutch, for their intellectual and moral progress. It would be short¬
sighted to forbid our children to bathe before they can swim, and violent
transitions sometimes lead to catastrophes. But, after all, what a
pabulum have we here for a hungry soul! How few English and
Americans are so well fed ! And yet, as I said, there is not the least
reason why they should not be, without, as I remarked, transition, or in
any way a transgression of Bible doctrines.
And, first, surely Spiritualism does enable us to understand conditions
and doctrines of which it gives a reflection. Among its multifold
reflections it certainly gives a reflection of Jacob’s wrestling with an
angel materialised as a man. It also gives a reflection of the angel who
came materialised to Manoah and his wife—so materialised that they
wanted to feed him with the flesh of a kid. The angel, however,
refused food, as materialised spirits generally refuse food nowadays.
Then the angel, on being asked his name, said it was a secret; that is
not uncommon also at the present time. And then we find the angel
going up with a flame. And now comes an incident in this most inte¬
resting history which is not reflected in the present day. Both Manoah
and his wife thought that this materialised angel was God Himself; and
there is not a solitary instance of a like nature in Scripture. Manoah
was frightened, and thought God was going to kill him. This was not
certainly an exalted view of God. But his wife sensibly remarked that
the Lord would not have acted and spoken as He did if it was for their
harm; and this last sentiment is reflected when Spiritualists refute the
devil theory, for instance, by the same line of argument. I leave to the
readers to ponder for themselves over the many other cases of mate¬
rialised spirits spoken of in the Bible, as well as the many other reflec¬
tions quite unconnected with materialisation; and as regards the
hundreds of other reflections which this may recall, I will merely
say that it is not now difficult, to understand. Now Balaam could
have been addressed by an angel, even through the mouth of an ass.
We are waiting for greater things ; but surely already reflections
enough have lighted us up, even identity of phenomena; and it is not
impossible but that we may understand conditions as well now, if not
better, than they were understood formerly.
Next, we are told that the progressive spirit spheres have an analogy
with purgatorial states. Now, one cannot but see how little the
majority in England and America learn about such things in the
majority of the churches; but surely it is the fault of the shepherds,
not of the pasture provided, that they should hide so much provender j
under their bushels, in order to surfeit us with their nostrum of eternal
punishment. As I have before remarked, all the churches are taught
about these progressive spirit spheres in the doctrines of paying the last
farthing, and the few and many stripes of the Bible. Fortunately j
Spiritualists, knowing these things to be true through the teachings of ;
spirits, can utilise them without man’s authority, and have much that j
they would be able to teach their teachers in whatever church they may
remain. And here let me remark that prayers for the dead imply both
progressive spheres and purgatorial states; for to pray for the dead
without the belief in their progress and cleansing would be an unmeaning
mockery and a cynical anomaly. And none can say that the Litany of
the Church of England does not contain, at any rate, a prayer for the dead, )
and a very significant one, too. Now, this Litany lays down two especial
postulates : First, that the Great Spirit, afterwards incarnated in Jesus,
was called “ God ” in the Old Testament; and next, that when incarnated, I
that same Great Spirit was recognised as the beloved Son of God.
And, in this duplex character, He is addressed in this Litany, and to
Him is offered up this essential prayer for the dead, “ that He will not
be angry with the world for ever, but will finally beat down Satan under
our feet.” That is the feet of the world, of all mankind. Surely this
is a prayer for the dead if ever there was one, for it applies to our
future state, and to that alone. Most of the prayers of the Liturgy of
the Church of England are addressed to the Father, who is recognised
as passionless, “ without body, parts, or passions but this prayer is f
offered up to one subject to passions; as the God of the Old Testament, j
subject to anger, jealousy, even fury; and yet to one who has taught us !
to moderate our anger: “ Let not the sun go down upon your wrath.” We
do not ask that; we are willing fully to accept justice, or something less.
Moreover, the Litany is addressed to one who, in his position of former
I, guiding spirit of the Jewish nation, gave precedent of changing his
decrees: “I said, indeed, that thy house and the house of thy father
| should walk before me for ever ; but now the Lord saith, be it far from
| me.” Thus we see that, if even the word translated eternal or for ever
| should mean never-ending, which so many scholars utterly deny, there
is still precedent for even those who stick to what they believe to be the
| letters, to pray for the recall of the decree, supposing such a decree ever
took place. And thus the Litany is fully justified in its strong expres¬
sion : we pray thee to cancel Thy decree of everlasting punishment, and
not to be angry with us for ever ; and, finally, to beat down Satan under
our feet. How much wiser, how much more just, then, is the Litany
than are its expounders in a general way ? The early Christians, we
all know, prayed for the dead, as is shown not only by tradition, but
practically by the tombstones of perhaps all the Christians who were
buried in the catacombs of Home during the early days of persecution ;
on each of these is a prayer for the dead. Many of these tombstones
have been lately exhumed, and can now be seen at Rome in large
numbers. So, then, let us always remember that, in the use of the
English Litany, we not only pray, like the early Christians, for those
who have passed away and will pass away, but also, by this prayer, we
acknowledge a belief in progressive spirit spheres and purgatorial states
which, by the science of Spiritualism, we know to be actual facts.
Then, again, as your correspondent says, the intercourse with spirits
is analogous to the Church’s communion of saints. We shall under¬
stand this more fully when we remember that Christians generally, in
primitive days, were called saints ; and thus the communion with any
spirit of a deceased Christian friend would be naturally called a com¬
munion of saints as well as the communion with higher spirits.
And then, again, how true is your correspondent’s further remark,
that trance conditions of the present day prefigure, or rather, I should
' say, are types of the religious ecstasy and inspiration of the Scriptures,
often high-flown and erratic enough, but often very much the contrary;
while if, in the words of your correspondent, that “ Spiritualism throws
in our sight a portion of that which we must still, for the greater part,
hold by what theologians call faith,” we substitute for the words “ the
greater part,” these other words “ in some degree,” we can see nothing
to find fault with in the terms; for surely Spiritualism has not yet said
its last word, nor its best; for, like other things here and in the next
world, we believe it to be progressive, as we have said before.
And if there is nothing in all the above that the adherents of any
form of Christian worship can legitimately find fault with as unscrip-
tural, what is there that any Spiritualist can find fault with as unspiritual
or unspiritualistic ? And yet how truly catholic is it all! How hopeful
for humanity 1 how just!
What I now desire to show is, that those who worship in the different
English churches can have all the benefits I have been writing of without
leaving their communion for another, and, when entering the new
church, having to confess their belief formally in everlasting punish¬
ment for all out of the pale of their new persuasion, who having the
opportunity of studying its dogmas neglect that opportunity, or who are
not convinced by them, inclusive of their formerly most loved and
nearest relatives. Moreover, my object is to demonstrate that we can
have all these good things without abjuring our right of private
judgment that was attained so hardly in former days, as the gentleman
did who lately wrote in the Times, that in leaving the church of his
fathers for another he exercised private judgment for the last time—his
fathers, I say, or let me say his ancestors of the last three or four
hundred years—for the sarcasm that we have left the church of our
ancestors is also applicable to our Druidical ancestors; or to our
savage painted ancestors and their fetish; or to leaving Paganism for
Christianity. Such changes may be good or bad, according to circum¬
stances, progressive or otherwise. It is not because some churches cast
—far too hastily—aside altogether, certain assertions of Scripture, the
great value of which Spiritualism has practically shown us, on account
of their belief that another church had abused them, that we should
join the latter. It is not because these churches were rendered
righteously indignant at this abuse, and consequently shortsighted,
that we should forsake them. It is not, I say, because a certain
church sold indulgences in purgatory, and nominated the times
and seasons of such indulgences, which their Master had told
them, just before leaving earth, that “the Father keeps in His own
hands,” that we should think it our duty to join that church now, which
never has abandoned that sale—never has withdrawn the nomination of
times and seasons that especial purgatory is to last. What we have to
do is, not to deny Scripture truths which speak in behalf of suffering
humanity. Above all, our duty is to show ourselves, in all our words
and deeds, more charitable, more catholic than the self-styled
“ Catholic.” What we have to do is not to forego our liberty and right
of private judgment by delivering ourselves over abjectly to confessions,
who often subject men, and especially women, to most trying bondage.
Not to yield ourselves up to be “ knocked about ” and “ badgered” in a
way that nothing but a strong will to continue Spiritualism at all
hazards, and the luck of a malleable or far-seeing confessor could have
delivered another of your correspondents from, who proves herself to be
not only a charming writer, but an earnest Christian woman, a true
Spiritualist, and a Catholic of the Catholics. Scrutator.
SPIRITUALISM IN TEXAS.
Sir,— In last week’s letter I left off at San Antonia, the beautiful and
romantic city. I shall continue there a little longer, and tell you of my
surprise one day to have a clergyman and his wife call on me. They
were near neighbours ; he was of the Methodist Church, and they had
both become Spiritualists from personal experiences connected with the
Feb. 14, ISfQ.
THE SPIRiTUALIST.
81
death and spirit resurrection of their last and best-loved son. Mr. B.
was building a church on the banks of the river, and doing it by volun¬
tary contributions ; he said that he would preach true Spiritualism, with
Christ the beginning, middle, and end. The poor people loved him
much ; they would cluster round his verandah on the summer evenings,
asking his wife to tell them something of her visions of angel glory,
beseeching her to try to see their loved ones who had passed on, but
thanks to God were not lost. The earnestness of these people was
refreshing. I distributed many of your leaflets, found one or two sensi¬
tives, who in that clear and lovely atmosphere will easily develop into
clairvoyance and test mediumship. Many of the other families in this
neighbourhood were believers or investigators, but all awake to the
glorious fact that we never die. The spirit of the place and the people
is most conducive to development; they are so helpful, kindly, and
hospitable. The balmy air induces repose and passivity; the wants of
the body are not so many there as in our cold fogs and gloom; the
need to appear well off, therefore “ respectable,” is not pressing in that
climate ; neither need they strive for fine clothes, gilding, nor furniture.
They live so near to nature that they are rarely sick; doctors do not
make fortunes there; so the great difference between us is in climatic
conditions after all. Here, the red-hot heavy rush and crush after the
body’s needs stultifies the natural intreadings of spirit. There, the
spirit demands great things ; the body demands inexpensive white cloth¬
ing, ice water, and fruits.
A mysterious message was sent me one day that a lady and her hus¬
band would like to see me. Their names? “Oh, no, they did not
care to give names.” Well, I laughed, “ All right.” It was the most
interesting visit I had there. Members of the Roman Catholic Church
would not have it known they believed in “ Ism ; ” but would I look at
the curious drawings the lady did.” And she exhibited to me the most
lovely little picturesque views, as exquisitely finished in fine
pencil drawing, as I ever saw at any picture gallery. That they were
the work of a great master I have no doubt, and as I am
eminently practical, I advised the lady to test their worth
in the money market. Showing the specimen that she gave
me to an artist friend of mine in New York, her eyes were
gladdened in due time by a cheque, and an order for more. These
people had a most laborious life as teachers of dancing, and here was a
valuable help to them from the spirit world. The lady told me she did
the drawings at night mostly—would be seized with the “ whim ” to get
out of bed and (as her husband said) “ scribble.” They did not know
what to make of the affair; she could not draw, and invariably the views
were executed upside down, so she did not even know what were the
intentions until she turned the cardboard round, wrong side up. Some¬
times one tiny view told four sides of a life history, which would be con¬
veyed by the drape of a head, the pose of a figure, the presence of a
child, then waste, ashes, and desolation, all most minute, showing the
master’s hand, the true genius. This was the most direct spirit control
I ever saw, producing immediate and positive results. Had the lady
lived near a benevolent Mr. Blackburn, of Manchester, she would be
enabled to give to the world new works from the so-called “ dead” great
masters ; but, like more geniuses, she must plod on to the end unknown
and unrecognised, because bread and butter, food and shelter must be
had. Alas ! the laws of medial power are little understood. When the
little lady tried to get pictures none came, but every day’s needs came
with regularity. So at our gates come angels, knocking, with knowledge,
but we are not ready yet to accept; and instead of enlightening this
material earth with the wonderful gift this lady was endowed with, she
continues to wear short skirts and call “right and left, lady’s chain,
down the middle, set to partners ” to the same old tune, on the same old
fiddle, until I wondered the monotony did not drive her mad.
In Northern Texas, Sallas particularly, there is a large number of
Spiritualists who brought their belief mainly from the Northern States.
Of late years crowds of emigrants have gone to settle there, and are
making rapid fortunes. At Houston I was invited to lecture, but the
weather was too hot. At Galveston I spent my happiest time, bathing
in the Gulf Stream at five o’clock in the morning, and being driven along
the grand drive on the beach at sunset by a Spiritualist family almost
every evening. Too much praise cannot be given to the enterprise and
faithfulness of the Spiritualists at Galveston, particularly Mrs. Talbot
(medium) and her husband, to whose exertions mainly the city owns a
very pretty, well ventilated, and well lighted hall, as well as a seance
room. Here Mrs. Talbot delivers trance addresses every Sunday
evening, with inspirational poems. Her addresses are quite worthy of
being set side by side with Mrs. Cora Tappan’s finest orations. On
Thursday evenings there is a meeting for discussion.
The press was very favourable to myself there. I lectured from the
platform every Thursday to good and sometimes overfilled halls. They
also rejoice in a piano and some musical supporters. General F is
the Mr. Blackburn of Galveston, helping mediums, entertaining them at
his house, giving his parlours for their seances, and never permitting any
to want. He is a man of letters, well-known and highly appreciated in
New York literary circles; a writer, and one who has made his mark
on those “ sands of time ”—marks never to be blotted out on eternal
shores. To his lady mother and friend I was happy to be able to give
some very curious tests; they helped materially to make my visit to
Galveston a great treat. Owing to Mr. and Mrs. Talbot residing in that
city, it will become a grand centre for Spiritualism in a short time, as
they have cultivation, intellect,, and medial power, combined with a
pretty house and good social standing, even amongst the churches. By
the way, we were all invited to a grand garden party given by church
people, and enjoyed ourselves very much, resisting heavy batteries
trying to force us into the lists of “ Spiritualism versus the Church.”
We said, “ No. We come to talk nonsense and eat ice, and we mean to
do it.” The principal families called, asking me did I really believe in
Spiritualism ? One would think we had something to gain by asserting
our belief. It is not much wonder our “ Ism ” flourishes in Galveston,
for the beauty of the city is beyond my pen to describe—roads made of
crushed shells, white as snow, lined with the dark green oleander, laden
I with crimson blossoms, shading beautiful villas with rich gardens in
i front; the foam-crested waves of the gulf visible along the road; the
people all out and about in their balconies, chatting and laughing to
I each other, exchanging courtesies and loving kindnesses. We who live
a shut-up life cannot comprehend this. Is it all climate, or is something
due to the mental atmosphere our exclusive English people cultivate
from generation to generation ? Sabah Parkeb.
j 22, Hart-street, London, Bloomsbury-square, 2nd Feb., 1879.
I } | BOEHME AND ST. MARTIN.
I 1 Sir,—I think no one can be annoyed by the correction of a quite
i j inadvertent error.
|) | The doubts expressed by two of your correspondents as to whether
! (j Boehme and St. Martin believed in the historic Christ would be
I j j changed by further acquaintance with those writers into the clearest
|! i conviction that they did.
| ( j Many years careful study of these writers’ various works enables me,
I i on this point, to speak confidently.
But the mistake is very intelligible. Bcehme endeavoured earnestly
I ( | to bring his readers away from a superficial professed faith in an
| ! historic Saviour to the inner ground of human nature where His
| j j redeeming work was effected; on that ground, therefore, and very
| j rarely on His short earthly life, does Bcehme concentrate attention,
j j With St. Martin there was a studied effort to give his theosophical
I j drift as much philosophical disguise as truth allowed. Living in the
| j most troubled time of the first French revolution in Paris, it would
| probably have endangered both his correspondence and his published
| works to have admitted the usual terms of religious faith. This pre-
\<) caution is proved by his so frequently using the word “ Repairer ”
| when he refers to Jesus Christ, First Cause when speaking of God,
| i and virtues and spiritual agents when he means angels,
j [ S. J. Penny.
I ) | The Cottage, Cullompton, February 10th.
i i THE POWER OP THE WILL.
11 I Sir,—It is an almighty thing, this will, usable to rap heads with
i | apparently, or to break them like the precious balms of the righteous
! | j perhaps, or even to remove mountains like Faith. Usable to mend
| | i hearts also riven with restlessness, or, with more righteous rending, to
i i mould character, our own or others, to make this dark time a little
I [ ] lighter. For directing it into such channels we might perhaps be
| ! slightly more useful, though we never succeed in planting Ben Nevis
in Salisbury Plain, or in quite “ unveiling Isis.” No Matter Who.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE EAST.
i Sir,—There is much in the letter of M. Constant, published in your
| last issue, with which the majority of your readers will doubtless
| agree; but also, I fear, much which those inclined to theosophy will
] be unwilling to take on the authority of M. Constant alone. One
i would imagine that the opinion of a person similarly situated to him¬
self upon theosophy in the East would be of the greatest value; but
j to my mind that portion of his communication devoted to this subject
shows so much prejudice—I almost said animosity—against modern
theosophers, that I (merely a student in these matters) feel compelled
| to hesitate greatly before accepting his ipse dixit.
From his own showing, M. Constant is eminently qualified to pro-
i nounce judgment, but his remarks are so much at variance with the
statements of others (who, I presume, are equally competent to give
I their opinions), which have been fully reported in your pages during
the past year, that I would certainly prefer corroboration before
accepting them as true.
j Throughout that remarkable work, Isis Unveiled, the author refers
to the East as being not only the country where the occult sciences
i may be found practised in their purity, but also the place whence all
| science and religion originally emanated. And Madame Blavatsky,
j/ unlike M. Constant, does not make her assertions upon her own
I authority alone, but cites a mass of testimony in support of her state¬
ments. Indeed, the opinions of these two writers are so utterly
opposed to each other, that I cannot help thinking that M. Constant,
in penning his merciless letter, has allowed his prejudice against modern
' I Spiritualism and theosophy to warp his judgment,
i i In connection with the subject of theosophy in the East, perhaps the
1 j following extract from St. Martin’s Le Ministere de VHormne-esprit
| | (published in 1802, and translated into English by E. B. Penny in
l | 1864) may be of interest:—
M “ Perhaps the time is not distant when Europeans will look eagerly
I at things which they now treat with distrust or contempt. Their
| scientific edifice is not so established as not to have some revolutions
I to undergo. They are now beginning to recognise in organic bodies
! what they call elective attraction—sax expression wrhich will carry them
| far, notwithstanding the pains they take not to call the truth by its
i right name.
| “ The literary wealth of Asia will come to their aid. "When they
! see the treasures which Indian literature begins to open through the
| ! “ Asiatic Researches ” of the Calcutta Society ; when they have studied
j | the Mahaharat—a collection of sixteen epic poems, containing one
j I hundred thousand stanzas on the mythology, religion, morals, and
| history of the Indians—and the Upnek'hat, translated by Anquetil,
j i containing extracts from the Vedas, &c , they will be struck with the
j I similarity between the opinions of the East and those of the West on
( i the most important subjects.
| ; “In this mine some will seek correspondences of languages in
j j alphabets, inscriptions, and other monuments; others may discover
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 14, 1879.
the grounds of all the fabulous theogonies of the Egyptians, Greeks,
and Romans; and, lastly, others will find remarkable coincidences
with the dogmas published within the last centuries by different
Spiritualists of Europe, who will never be suspected of having got
them from India.
ei But while waiting to know more of this theosophic wealth of
India, I must admonish my fellow men that it is not in these books,
any more than it is in any others, to take them beyond speculative
Spiritualism; the radical development of our intimate essence alone
can lead us into active spirituality.” . A. E. M.
Retford, January 29th, 1879.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday night, at the monthly meeting of the Council of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. Alexander Calder
presided. The other members present were:—Mr. Morell Theobald,
Mrs. Maltby, Mr. Stainton-Moses, Miss Houghton, Miss Withall, Mrs.
Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Pickersgill, Mr. W. Miall,
Mr. Walhouse, Mr. Reimers, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Mr. E. T. Bennett,
Mr. Coffin, Mr. Pearson, Mr. Green, Mr. Withall, Mr. R. Pearce, and
Mr. Harrison.
The minutes of the last meeting having been read and confirmed, one
new member was elected.
The following resignation of one of the vice-presidents, Mr. C. C.
Massey, was then read:—
“ 4, Hareourt-buildings, Temple, 3rd February, 1879.
“ Dear Miss Kislingbuky,—I have to request that you will be good
enough to convey to the Council, at its next meeting, my respectful
resignation of my office of vice-president of the Association, and of my
seat on the Council. It is from no loss of interest in what I believe to
be the proper objects of the Association that I take this step ; but I
believe the present number of the Council, which seems to me
unduly large, leads unavoidably to its discussions ranging beyond
what I conceive to be the necessary and legitimate business of
the Association. When I joined the Association I did so for
the purpose of making a public profession of faith in discredited
facts; and when I subsequently accepted the honour of a seat
on the Council, I did not suppose that my doing so would involve, as it
has done, participation in debates and discussions not, I think, very
profitable or important, and the publication of which I believe to be in¬
jurious to the Association.
<c In making this explanation, I beg it may be understood that nothing
can be further from my intention than to express or imply any disrespect
to the Council, or to any individual member of it. I must, on the con¬
trary, accept and deplore any share of responsibility for what I depre¬
cate which may justly attach to myself.—I remain, yours faithfully,
“ C. 0. Massey.
“ The Secretary B. N. A. S., 38, Great Russell-street.”
Mr. Staihton-Moses said that they all knew how Mr. Massey came
publicly forward, with a name and credit to lose, in defence of Dr.
Slade. He knew that Mr. Massey’s decision to leave the Association
was final, and he deeply regretted being separated from him in work.
He would move that the resignation be accepted “ with deep regret.”
This was seconded by Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, and passed unanimously.
The following resignation of another of the vice-presidents, Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory, was then read :—
“ Monday the 10th.
“ Dear Miss Kislingbury,—Will you be so good as give in at
to-morrow’s Council meeting my resignation of the vice-presidency, and
my membership of the British National Association of Spiritualists, as
well as of my membership of the General Purposes Committee.—
Believe me, yours truly, “ Lisette Makdougall Gregory.”
Mr. FitzGerald moved, and Mr. M. J. Walhouse seconded, that Mrs.
Gregory’s resignation be accepted “ with deep regret.” This was
passed unanimously.
The resignations of two ordinary members were then read and
accepted.
Several letters were read and presents acknowledged, after which the
decease of Dr. Hallock was announced, and a vote of condolence passed
to Mrs. Hallock.
Mr. Stainton-Moses then read the report of the General Purposes
Committee, which had been previously issued as a printed circular to
the Council, as follows :—
Private and Confidential.
British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O., February 5,1879.
The next meeting of the Council will he held on Tuesday, the 11th instant,
at 6.30.
The following recommendations of the General Purposes Committee will he
discussed:—
1. That the vacant rooms on the premises of the Association be let, by public
advertisement or otherwise, to the best possible advantage.
2. That the whole suite of rooms not used for the purposes of the Associa* j
tion be offered, as likely to command a better rent, and to set the Association i
more free from responsibility.
3. That, in order to carry out this plan, Mr. Harrison be requested to be j
kind enough to give up the tenancy of the rooms now occupied by him, at the I
end of the present quarter.
4. That the Council offer £50 per annum to Miss Burke to discharge the
duties of secretary ; the engagement to commence from 25th February; the |
hours of attendance to be from 2 p.m. to 9.30 p.m. daily, except Saturday ; on |
that day to be from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. !
5. That a rota be formed of members of Council who will attend for an hour
or two on one day in the week to advise with the secretary, see visitors, &c.
E. Kislingbury, Secretary.
Mr. Sfcainton-Moses said that resolutions four and five had been
carried unanimously by the committee, so he would move their adoption
first. He accordingly moved the adoption of No. 4.
This was seconded by Mr. Harrison and passed unanimously.—
Clause No. 5 was then seconded by Mr. March, and passed. 1
Mr. Stainton-Moses then said that Clauses 1, 2, and 3 involved an
important principle, so he would leave the question in the hands of
the Council whether they should be considered.
Mr. March asked—Did he not intend, as chairman of the committee,
to move the adoption of that part of the report ?
Mr. Stainton-Moses said that as chairman of the committee he had
not voted, and he wished still to hold the balance between contending
views.
Mr. M. J. Walhouse moved that the consideration of Clauses 1, 2,
and 3 be postponed.
This was not seconded.
Mr. March thought that a chairman who brought up a report always
moved its adoption.
Mr. Stainton-Moses: Very well, then; I move forma that recom¬
mendations 1, 2, and 3 be adopted.
This was seconded by Mr. Bennett, who spoke strongly in favour of
their adoption; so also did Mr. FitzGerald, who wished that the
question had been brought up on its own merits, not as a matter of
finance.
Mr. Stainton-Moses then read the following letter from Mr. C. C.
Massey:—
“ PROTEST.
“As a member of the Association, and as a late member of the
General Purposes Committee, which the Council, on the 14th January
last, instructed ‘ to consider the question of the future secretaryship,
and the general house arrangements,’ I beg respectfully to submit to
the Council the following protest against the adoption of the recom¬
mendations of the committee, so far as the same relate to the termi¬
nation of Mr. Harrison’s tenancy of the rooms now occupied by him,
on the grounds—
“(1.) That the question of Mr. Harrison’s tenancy, though perhaps
open for consideration by the committee upon a verbal construction of
the reference by the Council, was not within its apparent intention,
nor was suggested by the occasion which led to the necessity of con¬
sidering the house arrangements.
“ (2.) That the committee considered this question, not solely with
reference to the convenient and profitable disposition of the rooms, but
also with reference to the general policy of retaining Mr. Harrison’s
offices on the premises.
“ (3.) That the intention to raise this question at the committee had
not been brought to the notice of the Council when it empowered the
committee to make recommendations ; and still less does it appear to
have been present to the mind of the Council that the committee
might base their recommendations upon considerations other than
those of economy and convenience.
“ (4.) That the question, if referred for consideration by a com¬
mittee, should be so expressly, and not by implication or construction.
“ (5.) That in constituting or adding to such committee, the Council
should have expressly before it the character of the question to be
referred, in order to ensure the unprejudiced consideration of it, and
to satisfy the Association that this object has been kept in view.
“ (6.) That the additions made to the General Purposes Committee
by the Council on the 14th January were made without the discussion
they might have received had attention been expressly called to the
question which the committee has considered itself authorised to
entertain.
“(7.) That some members of the Council who were absent from its
meeting of the 14th January would probably have attended had they
known what was involved in the business to be transacted.
“ (8.) That there were members of the General Purposes Committee
itself who were of opinion that it was not open to the committee to
entertain the question of Mr. Harrison’s tenancy otherwise than as
one of economy and local convenience.
“ (9.) That one member of the committee (not myself) who took this
view had been present at the meeting of the Council on the 14th
January* ; and this fact is submitted as evidence that the Council
were not informed or aware of the intention or possible construction of
the resolution when it was passed.
“ (10.) That the members of the committee itself were not apprised
before its meeting that the question referred to them would be dealt
with otherwise than as one of economy ; I, for one, having been only
informed of this by the courtesy of the chairman before the second or
adjourned meeting for the consideration of the question, and having
only attended in consequence of such information.
“(11.) That the recommendation, as originally drafted, was stated to
be ‘ with a view to retrenchment; ’ and these words were only
struck out by the mover at the moment before the recommendation
was put to the vote, upon attention being called to their misleading
character.
“(12.) That no grounds of profit or economy have been shown to
exist in support of the recommendation.
“ (13.) That, on the contrary, it involves the loss of a tenant who
has offered to pay an increased rent for slightly different accommoda¬
tion, without the least definite prospect that a new tenant will be
secured when the present one goes out.
| (14.) That the question of economy was insufficiently discussed,
*In case the question is asked, I may state that this member was Mr. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald.
Feb. 14, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
83
and was treated as altogether subsidiary to the policy of removing Mr. j) |
Harrison’s offices from the Association. I (j
“ (15.) That that policy is itself inexpedient and unnecessary in the | !
opinion of many members of the Association, and will be regarded | ! |
as induced or supported not solely with consideration for the interests | i
of the Association. ' v,. jji
“ (16.) That the adoption of the recommendation under the circum- j |
stances above set forth will cause just dissatisfaction in the Association, j (|
and will be seriously prejudicial to its interests. j j!
I make the above protest in writing in consequence of having sent 1) j
in my resignation of my seat on the Council, and as that reason only i (j
applies to myself, I have not submitted the protest to any other member | ) I
of the Council or of the committee for his or her concurrence. ! \ 1
“C. C. Massey. j I
7 4, Harcourt-buildings, Temple, 14th February, 1879.” | j i
Mr. Harrison then said—Will you kindly hear me out in the few ! \ ]
respectful remarks I have to make, since these are nearly my last words i i
on this Council. At the close of this meeting I give in my resignation, | >
which is not altogether grounded, however, upon the subject now before j ( |
us. Early in 1876 Messrs. Rogers, Bennett, and others, kept this j (
Council in agitation for weeks because I rented a branch office on these j)
premises; I accordingly gave notice of my intention to take offices else- i j
where, but the Council, at a large special meeting, asked me to remain ! (
here by a majority of nineteen to two. Nearly all the strongest pillars i >
of this Association, men whose names gave confidence to the public, and i j
whose withdrawal would have killed it, told me they disliked the attack j (
which had been made, and that they thought it to be a great convenience j
to the public to have The Spiritualist office and your reading rooms on \
the same premises, instead of forcing callers to make a journey between (
the two. Further, the Council never obtained the names of any objectors, )
outside a small circle of private friends, all on family visiting terms with (
each other, and it is not well that private tea-tables in the suburbs should
rule a public body. Since then all has been quiet, until at last Council i
meeting it became necessary to deal with the rooms vacated by Miss j j
Kislingbury, and Mr. Dawson Rogers proposed that the General Pur- !
poses Committee should consider “ the general house arrangements.’’ j (
He proposed, further, that Miss Withall, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, and Mr. j
Theobald should be added to the committee, and said he had no objec- i)
tion to act on it himself; whereupon Mr. Theobald proposed that Mr. [ /
Rogers should be placed on it. The committee met, and last week the ] (
recommendations of the committee now before us were issued by it, but i
illegitimately marked “ private and confidential ”—a prohibition against j)
showing them to the members of the Association. These recommenda- j (
tions were carried by but a majority of one; the four persons who voted j j
for them were Mr. Rogers, Miss Withall, Mr. E. T. Bennett, and Mr. i)
Fitz-Gerald; the voters against them were Mr. C. C. Massey, Dr. j(
Wyld, and Mrs. Maltby. Many of the members of the committee did I)
not know that any such subject was coming up, and they are at present i (
in a state of indignation, for the Council never intended the committee i (
to deal with anything but the letting of the rooms vacated by the j)
secretary; it never intended that the greater public question of the j (
advantage or disadvantage of having two sets of public offices on these i
premises should be considered by the committee. The whole thing from \
first to last—the putting two or three special people on an already good
committee, resulting in four votes on one side of a division where other¬
wise there would have been but two, and the wording of the resolution to I)
make it cover subjects which the Council never intended—amounts alto- (
gether to a trick, which cannot he too strongly condemned by people with j
any sense of honour. Now to briefly criticise the details of the report.
The advantages of letting a whole suite of rooms are spoken of. If the j
word “ suite ’’ in the report induces any readers to think of an unbroken I
suite of rooms, which in consequence of my departure will cover the i
complete flat instead of but a part of our second floor, let them know j
that on the said flat is our seance room, wherein public and private dark I
circles with all their noises are held, and which contains cabinets and
weighing machinery, for which there is no room downstairs. Whether
it is more remunerative, as the report says, to let six rooms together
rather than in smaller numbers, and to turn out a paying tenant on the
speculation that a public anxiety exists to take lodgings on Spiritualistic j
premises I do not Imow ; but I do know that your new secretary cannot j
be chained immovably to your reading room from 2 till 9.30 p.m., and
that if my assistant is not here to relieve her for an hour or two at un- I
expected times, you must add a boy or girl to your permanent staff at a
cost of £20 or £30 a year. One object, the report says, of the recom- '
mendation to remove my offices is “ to set the Association more free from
responsibility; ” that is to say, the responsibility of having at least
£100 a year income over and above its expenses, for Miss Kislingbury’s
departure has changed our whole financial position. Lastly, the
report generously asks me to take six weeks’ notice from to-day |
to remove a somewhat responsible book-publishing office, instead
of the three months’ notice from next quarter day, to which I j
am entitled. The Council never thought that Mr. Rogers’s resolution
was intended to reopen the public question about the convenience or
inconvenience of my office here, and the committee had no right to take
up subjects not intended by the Council. But enough of this. I do
not ask my friends to rally round me, as during the 1876 attack, to |
upset this packing of a good committee with unnecessary additional
voters, or any other actions of the kind. If new subjects of inharmony
had been brought up there might have been some faint hope of peace ; |
but when an old one, authoritatively settled by a majority of 19 to 2, is
brought up again in a surreptitious way, because its raising might not
have been permitted had one of the usual straightforward monthly notices j
of motion been given to the Council, friendly working is hopeless. In
spite of all the decisions and rules of the Council, Messrs. Rogers and
Bennett every now and then throw brickbats (metaphorically speaking) j
at me, and I cannot support what I think to be the weak and inefficient j
public measures they frequently advocate. So I will get out of this atmo- ■
sphere of inharmony by giving up my seat on the Council. I have the
inclination to say I will move my offices from here without delay, but that
would relieve the Council from the present necessity of considering
whether subterfuge has been resorted to by any person on the Council
to resuscitate among honourable people a question which might not have
been reopened by putting it in a straightforward way—that is to say, by
giving the usual month’s notice to the Council of bringing up again a
question of public policy—and whether the Council will submit to such
subterfuge. Compared with this question of honour, the trivial one of
my little office here is nothing.
Mr. Dawson Rogers said that it was not correct that he had intimated
his willingness to serve on the committee before Mr. Theobald nomi¬
nated him.
A division was then taken. Messrs. Walhouse, Miall, Pearson,
Calder, Green, and Harrison did not vote. Mr. Pickersgill and Mrs.
Maltby voted against the adoption of the resolutions. The thirteen
other members present voted for their adoption. Majority eleven.
A vote of thanks was passed by the Council to the friends who
recently gave an entertainment for the benefit of the Association.
The report of the Finance Committee showed a balance in hand of
£115 3s. 3d., and recommended payments to the extent of £29 12s. 3d.
It estimated the outstanding liabilities of the Association at £5.
A letter from the Rev. T. Colley was read, explaining why he had
not attended the last Council.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald moved that Mr. Colley be requested to withdraw
from the Council, since he had not attended that or the previous
Council meeting, nor taken any steps to substantiate his implied
charges against “the authorities’’ of the Association. He would add
that there seemed to be extraordinary discrepancies between Mr.
Colley’s published description of a bygone event, and the description of
it given by the gentleman in whose house it took place. Mr. Colley
had published in The Medium in view of the family assembled,
had taken the muslin and beard from that medium’s portmanteau,” but
Mr. Owen Harries, of 15, Russell-street, Landport, who was, he believed,
a respectable man, had written to him (Mr. Fitz-Gerald) under date of
January 19th, 1879, that at his house the medium “had a small port¬
manteau with him ; the following morning I felt justified in opening the
portmanteau, and the first thing that rolled out was a piece of muslin
(about four yards) and a beard .... I sent to the Rev. T. Colley, and
told him about it; he advised me to say nothing about it at present.”
There seemed to be a discrepancy in these statements.
Mr. Coffin seconded the motion.
Mr. Reimers explained that so far as attending recent Council
meetings was concerned, Mr. Colley had been unable to do so.
At the request of Miss Houghton, and one or two others, Mr. Fitz¬
Gerald postponed his resolution for another month.
The following notices of motion by the Rev. T. Colley were then given
in by Mr. Reimers :—
1. That it is inexpedient and prejudicial to the best interests of this Asso¬
ciation longer to permit to be used any part of its premises as a shop for the
sale of literature it does not endorse and cannot recommend, or continue to
suffer the appropriation of any or part of its rooms as an office, branch, or
otherwise, for the publication of a journal, assumed, through appearances, to
be what it is not, the organ of this Association, and over which it has no
control.
2. That no report of the proceedings of this Council be suffered to be made
public that has not been authenticated by the chairman as honest and com¬
plete, and in fair agreement with the recorded minutes of the transactions of
| the Association.
The Secretary then read the following resignation from Mr. Har-
I rison:—
“ 38, Great Russell-street, Feb. 11th, 1879.
j “ To the Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
“ Ladies and Gentlemen,—I write to resign my seat on your
I Council. The chief reason is that I find we have no proper control
| of our committees, so that public acts are performed for which members
i of Council are responsible, but of which they know nothing. For
| instance, I found that three printed circulars, with the words ‘ British
| National Association of Spiritualists’ at the top, had been printed and
I issued to the public by Mr. Bennett, at Richmond. The circulars did
not tell the public to communicate with the secretary, but with Mr.
i Bennett. The Council would not have known anything about these cir¬
culars had I not accidentally discovered their existence some months
j after they had been printed. Further, our committees sometimes take
j up work they have not been ordered to take up, spend money without
I having the items previously sanctioned by the Council, and exercise the
] power of recording minutes of business which they do not report to the
j Council. Lastly, one of them has just issued a circular, which its
[j members, our subordinates, have ordered us to treat as ‘ private and
i j confidential.’ I submit that our stewards have no right to give us such
I i orders, and that our constituents have given us no authority to carry on
II any secret work whatever on their behalf; also that until, as in town
) councils, all minutes of our committees shall- be of no effect or authority
j! until read over to and adopted by the Council, the power of the Council
I j is broken, and it has little control over much for which it is
j responsible. Having failed to induce you to adopt that system of
| working which is common all over the kingdom, I respectfully give in
j this resignation.—Truly yours, “W. H. Haehison.”
The meeting then broke up.
Spiritualism in India.—Just before going to press we are glad to
hear from Mr. Eglinton that he is going to India, where a physical
medium has long been wanted among European residents. Those of
Mr. Egl in ton’s seances during which both his hands are held are
usually convincing. At present he is in Cape Town,
84
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 14, 1870.
ON RELIGION.*
BY ALEXANDER CALDER, PRESIDENT OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—We have met this evening to
hear our well-known friend Mr. Fletcher on some phase of
the “ Religion of Spiritualism,” which he liberally supplies
us with; and I am happy to avail myself of the privilege of
addressing you for a few moments on this occasion.
Religion has been called by some the opinion of nations,
and well it earns this title; for there is little else than
opinion in many forms of it. When we look abroad on the
different religious systems of the world, each with its creeds,
its rites, and its ceremonies, widely varying one from
another, and notice what they have produced, we are not far
wrong if we say that none of them is divine. If we look
closer and examine popular Christianity, and the good and evil
with which it is credited, we may safely say that it is far from
responding to the ideal of its great Founder, and we might
even venture to add that were He now on earth He would be
grievously disappointed. For surely the kingdom of God
has no relation to the misery, the corruption, the hypocrisy,
the strife, and the wars of the age. Far, very jar from it.
Yet there is, and there must be a true arrangement; a really
divine system to procure human wellbeing and improvement.
To do the will of our Father in Heaven—that is true religion.
There, in a few words, lies our whole duty; and the
important thing is to have a right conception of His will,
and laying hold of it with all our might, steadily follow it;
act it out in our lives.
Now, this divine will, think you that it lies far off, or is
wrapped up in some profound mystery difficult to unravel ?
Certainly not t Our heavenly Father has made the matter
perfectly plain: the elements of His will are constantly
among you; familiar words often on your tongues. The
bright symbols love, peace, sincerity, honesty, temperance,
charity, industry, truth, justice, economy, humility. No
opinions these; but solid germs of truth which, culti¬
vating, we fulfil the life required of all. You become the
loved children of an everlasting parent, the loyal subjects
of His kingdom, priests unto God. Yes, that is even
required of us. Amazing fact! Each becomes a priest to
himself. It must be so, as the only remedy for evil; for if
we neglect the diligent practice of these virtues, we stumble
into sin. But mark, our love, peace, sincerity, honesty, and
so forth must not be adulterated, hollow hypocrisies, but
pure and genuine; each of its kind, or it is worthless.
These grand virtues will be loved for themselves and for the
good they do us and others. We must not do them for the
admiration of any, but assimilate them to strengthen our
own souls. For as surely as light dispels darkness, and
heat displaces cold, so the practice of these virtues destroys
the power of sin. It cannot be otherwise. It is the simple
law of culture—we reap what we sow.
You see all this plainly enough, and you will be disposed
naturally to follow what you can understand to be true and
good. You may be sure that if these ideas are planted in
your hearts they will bring forth, if duly cultivated, most
precious fruit. They are as pearls of great price which, once
possessed, exceed in value all other things ; and levelling all
conditions, make the lowly equal to the highest. The very
rags of poverty are exchanged for garments of loveliness,
beauty, and strength, and the possessor becomes enriched
for life, now and evermore; and this is the superiority all
should ardently seek. For unless there is an active culture
of these virtues, so that the sum total shall increase in
measure sufficient to oppose and stop the growth of corrup¬
tion, it may only be a question of time for this nation, like
others, to perish. Why not? In those long-lost nations
there dwelt men equally great in their way as ours—princes,
priests, nobles, whose opulence and grandeur might rival
anything we could show; but they wanted one thing,
they had one immense defect—the heart was tainted, and
becoming more and more corrupt they fell into ruin. How
could it be otherwise where religion is a huge chaos, without
distinct plan or unity of design, based on opinion and not
on nature’s facts. Where the salt of social preservation is
no better than chalk, the time will come when putrefaction
| An address delivered last Sunday evening at tlie Cavendish Booms, London.
will be sensibly felt, and death follow. For if we live not
under the divine order, but according to disorder, disorder
has but one termination. In a word, the plan of action, the
sure way of safety for us, lies in the ceaseless culture of the
great, noble, and pure virtues already set forth as the surest
method of promoting the kingdom of Heaven on earth.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
The eighth animal general meeting of the members of the Ralston
Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism, adjourned from the 30th ult.,
washeldat the Association’s rooms, 53, Sigdon-road, Ralston, London, E.,
on Thursday evening last week. Mr. John Rouse was voted into the
chair in the unavoidable absence through illness of the president. The
report of the Council and statements of account for the year 1878 were
laid before the meeting, and, after some congratulatory remarks from
various members present, were unanimously adopted.
The following officers for the current year were elected, viz.:—•
Mrs. W. E. Corner, president; Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. E. J. Davey,
Mr. Edwin Rottridge, Mrs. M. A. Macauley, Mr. John Rouse, Mr.
Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. Thomas Wilks, and Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
council; Mr. Thomas Blyton, hon. sec. and treasurer. The appoint¬
ment of a vice-president was referred to the Council.
An amended motion for a new rule respecting the expulsion of
members whose conduct may be discreditable to the Association was
adopted after a spirited discussion.
A cordial vote of thanks to the officers of the Association for their
services during the past year was moved by Mr. J. Bruce Gillon,
seconded by Mr. G. R. Tapp, and carried unanimously.
The following is an abridgment of the report of the Council:—
The net receipts, including the balance of 10s. Id. brought forward
from the previous year, amount to £33 9s. 2d., as against ,£28 11s. 3d.
for 1877. A valuation of the stock of the Association was made by a
special committee in the early part of last year, and has been com¬
puted at an amount of £'78 12s. The total number of members on
the register on Recember 31st last, as compared wdth. the correspond¬
ing period in 1877, is as follows :—
31st December, 1878.
31st December, 1877.
Glass of Membership.
Life.
13
12
Honorary.
35
32
Ordinary.
33
3G
Total.
81
80
Increase
Decrease.
The Hon. Alexander Aksakof has been elected a life member. Rr.
J. M. Peebles, Mr. W. Eglinton, Miss Maucell, and Mr. M. Pardo
have been elected honorary members. Ruring the past year Mrs. W.
Towns, a member of the Association, has passed from earth-life, and
the Council express their condolence with Mr. Towns. The weekly
experimental seances on Thursday evenings have been fairly attended
by members and visitors. Various phenomena of an interesting cha¬
racter have been obtained, mainly in the presence of non-professional
mediums, members of the Association. The Council have had their
attention drawn to the desirability of providing a series of self-sup¬
porting subscription seances with accessible mediums. It has been
resolved that such arrangements be made as opportunity may offer for
such seances, which are to be held on some other than Thursday
evenings or Monday evenings set apart for the fortnightly discussion
meetings, during each winter season, and that the result of such
seances be reported to the Council from time to time. Those members
desirous of taking part in these subscription seances are requested to
notify their wished to the honorary secretary.
Will be ready in a few days,
SPIRIT-IDENTITY,
By M.A. (Oxon).
Oloth 8yo, red edges, price 5s, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
j. Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
j minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF ERWIN RROOR,
] Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
: writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of ft M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
I By the Baroness Adelma von Yat (Countess Wurmbrand).
;) i Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. Gd., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
| | GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
|} | The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsburyj London.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Eeb. 14, 1879.
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Eepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.B..S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, E.R.G-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor m
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
Inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformei
The Thinker.
opie
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
~ ~ ' ,H.
, III.
, IV.
  5, V. . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the P
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . ,
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures .
s. d.
0
6
6
6
6 0
1 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . •
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Thb SpibituaIiIST Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds ......
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ....
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ....
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ....
Threading my .Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge,D.D. .......
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A. .
Awas-I-Hind!; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. . ... 1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three veils. ... .... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mabommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
10
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
800 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘ drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authop and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Oloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientifle man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of bis examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be"
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientifle spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which Ms
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of Ms booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientifle
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III ^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—MediumsMp of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation-Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—^Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony ot
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Perrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s MediumsMp—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Gwen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the MediumsMp of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of SeersMp—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opimons of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The TeacMngs of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt —
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Gase—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe —James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carriage,•paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-sireet, W.C
iii
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Oloth, red edges
The new book by -
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
Oeneral Corroborative Evidence. ,
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—EviAente of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E.H.Valter, J.L. O’Sullivan
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
' II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
witMn Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.Pi; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wvld
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with While
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Coilyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 6s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post tree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ 6 ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given'
through the tranee-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship ot
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium
shin of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals
By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To Yon who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A.
Oxon.”
XVII Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burxe.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—‘‘ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV.—The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI.—Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIll.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.— The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“ M.A, Ga.on.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Predicdon. By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen).
XXXVII Longfellow's Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Naiural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis¬
lingbury
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W.H. Hams on.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conseienee. Bv Alex.
Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Erie Baker.
XLII Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. ByLisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLI V.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.C. S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Mediumship * its nature a^d
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
IV
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Feb. 14, 1879
Price Gd.; post free, 7£d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.'
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Good Medals
of the British National association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street, Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). . Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
MRS. PARKER’S NEW ART OF HEALING.
(Scientific, Psychological, and Restorative.)
22, HART STREET, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, W.C.,
N.B.—References to eminent medical gentlemen.
Lectures to Ladies on Wednesdays, rat 3 o'clock: subject,
“Health.” Her Tonic for the Skin gives youth and bloom,
instead of age and wrinkles. When conditions are favourable
Mrs. Parker is clairvoyant.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
IN thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser of the radiometer, and discoverer of the
new metal thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great
number of intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
are not), they are so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every household, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “No,” and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensin've to nesmeiic influences.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents. •
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. ‘‘ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirhel-hewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wolhlejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity.. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“Uo one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key ” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability... . Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint hears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); A.M. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine,
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The, Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose xmaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due I
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.. >•. A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If om readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”'
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the mgoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea ; it is Intensely humorous....
Those who v’ish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will nnd what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome." '
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [Y.B. An
irate member of the Town Counoil officially called the attention of
the Mayor ana Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
| “ Wobblejaw ballads,’’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price Ss. Gd. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence. •
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through' Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retro vision—-Introvision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—^Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted-Prediction of Changes in the Health, or State of the Seer-
Prediction of-Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER. VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazmg—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub-1
ject must he Studied.
CHAPTER.VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S mutual
World.
CHAPTER .VIII : Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbaoh—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odyllc or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications Ot
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan
ity. Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcrait—The Magic Crystal, ana Mirror, etc.. Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions ot
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to he Student^-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—^Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. NpirifwaZisf Newspaper Branch. Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London ,E.O,
