UegiSteebd as a Newspapee.
ebjfr; toitj' ^pritualism m ($xmi griMn.
No. 403.—(Yol. XYI.—No. 20.) LONDON: FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
. JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANWEE PLACE, BEGENT’S PABK, LONDON, N.W.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STEEET, LONDON, AV.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms ■will be found in the catalogue.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red edges.
A NEW booe: in connection with spiritualism,
PSYCHIC FACTS,
Will be Published in a few days, containing striking selections from the writings of Me. William Cbookes, F.R.S., Mr. C. F.
Varley, F.R.S., Me. A. R. Wallace, F.R.Gr.S., The Commutes of the Dialectical Society, Peoeessoe Habe, of Philadelphia,
Peoeessoe Zollner, Me. Seejeant Cox, Captain R;F. Burton, and others, demonstrating the reality of the phenomena of Spiritualism.
The w«rk will also contain some useful information for inquirers.
The Spiritualist Branch Office, 33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years'1 experience in Mesmerism.
• “ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of - his publisher. We agree with.Mr. Harrison that the author
-has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
.treated;» and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial, results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as' a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with having written an-interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—ZVie Publisher’s Circular.
Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C. ,
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Mat 14, 1880.
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DTJNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAYEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubnee and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTS Y,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
ORPHIC CONCERTS.
THE FIRST GRAND CONCERT OF
VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC
■WILL TAKE PLACE AT
WESTBOURNE HALL, (WE8TBOURNE GROVE)
ON SATURDAY, MAY 22nd, 1880.
To commence at 8 p.m. Tickets may be had of Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell Street,
London. Admission: Stalls 3s, Body of Hall 2s, Balcony Is.
Under the direction of Mb. CHARLES LONG and Mb. JAMES POCOCK.
Price 5s. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth. Red edges. The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON)}” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY; OR DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspapet Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O.
Just Published.
TEE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIKITS BEFOEE ODE EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Phis book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior, paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O,
MR. 0, E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Stemway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Haying made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEE RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
■VITALITY.
D. YOUNGER,
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored simply by
the influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient.
Any form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
With anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (comer of Moscow-road and
Hereford-rpad), Bayswater, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
"ly/TDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
-Lt-L Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
ll/TRS. WOODFORDE Any form
J-VJL Of Mediumship developed. Mesmeric Healing
at home daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from 1
to 5 p.m., 4, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.C.
pHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earls-court, S.W.
ASTROLOGY :—An Astrological
Map of the Heavens, shewing the true positions
of the Signs and Planets at time of of asking questions
(upon any subject.) Price 2s. 6d. Post Free. Three
questions answered free of charge with each map,
(N.B. Sixpenny or shilling stamps prefered.) Address,
Mr. H. DEE, Care of Mr. Wilson, 1, Osborne Place,
Henry Street, Ladypool Lane, Sparkbrook, Binning,
ham.
rpo let Furnished, Respect-
able and Healthy Apartments, overlooking the
Park. Suitable for two Gentlemen, (Friends or
Brothers), partial Board if required. Terms Moderate.
No Children. Five Minutes from Bus, Tram, or
Rail, 275, Grove Villas, Victoria Park Road, N.E.
References Required,
A REISS ANDREWS, Letterpress,
Copperplate and Lithographic Printer, 31,
Museum Street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Three doors
from Great Russell Street.
ALLEGORICAL SKETCHES,
XL FOUNDED ON SPIRITUAL TRUTHS.
1. The Inward Light. 2. A Lost Love Found. 3. The
Two Voices. 4. The Invisible Teacher. Price Is. 6d.
Victoria Steam Press, 117, Praed Street, London, W.
pi HINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
\J WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Earthenware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre -
payment system
J. M. DALE,
50, Orawford-atreet, Bryanston-square, London,
No. 403.—YOLUME SIXTEEN; NUMBEK TWENTY.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 14tli, 1880.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Peice Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HAKRISON,
MuseUm-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist :—
His Imperial Highness Ni¬
cholas op Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Gountess
of Caithness
The Baroness Yon Yay, Goun¬
tess Wiirmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale OwEn,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre AksakoE,
St. Petersburg
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Oapt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.GU.,
C. 0. MassEy, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexander Calder, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
Mrs. Makdouoall Gregory
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Captain John James
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jenoken, Esq., M.R.I.
0 Blaoxburn, Esq., Parkfield,
Didsbury, near Manchester
Mrs. Loxtisa Lowe
j. T. Markley, Esq.
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Yon Dirokinok-Holm-
feld (Holstein)
J, W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
the Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M. Adelberth de Bourbon
M. L. F. ClaVairoz (Leon
Favre)
WiLLiAit Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. VARLEYj Esq.,C.E.>F.R.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (OxoD)
R. Friese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.B. •
Dr. George Wyld
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.
M.D., Melbourne
J. C. LUxmoorE, Esq., J.P*
C. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. DUnphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Florence MarryAt
Madame Isabel de Steiger
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 83, Museum-street, London; 6, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocoa, Librario, Yria del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai ; 51, East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S. ; Religio-Philosophical Journal Office, Chicago ; 819, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington.
Advertising terms on application.
OEIGUNAL RESEARCH IN SPIRITUALISM.
The valuable article by Dr. John Purdon,
<| published in this number of The Spiritualist,
If gives the result of experiments indicating that
) | during a seance with a physical medium there
(I was a falling-ofit in the normal amount of one
(I of the products of slow combustion in bis body,
/1 to the extent of thirty per cent. Force cannot
)j be created or destroyed by man, although it
si may be transformed or guided by him, con-
<| sequently when a locomotive draws a heavy
? j train more fuel is burnt in running the same
[ | distance than when no carriages are attached
s I to the engine, more of the potential energy of
rf coal being necessarily consumed to produce
[| the additional mechanical motion. So is it in
|> I the human body; when more work is done
l\ more food is consumed. And if during a
(j given journey by a locomotive there were a
?! large falling-off in one of the usual products
)| of combustion, such an unexpected fact would
11 furnish matter for research, and its cause
(| would be before long discovered. Dr. Purdon’s
j discovery in relation to mediumship is sur-
} | prising, because, although scarcely any muscu-
) I lar energy may be exercised in the body of
J| an entranced physical medium during a seance,
> | great muscular energy is sometimes exercised
>| by temporarily materialised hands, arms, and
]! occasionally whole bodies * at a distance from
|! him, and in these evanescent organisms all the
> j ordinary processes of life seem to be at work ;
> ! the temporary hands, for instance, have warm
! I blood and a beating pulse. The substance of
|! these fugitive organisms returns to the
>j body of the medium, consequently one
»i would expect that all the products re-
' suiting from work done by the muscles
[j would return with it. If not, what be-
11 comes of those which are missing ? Are they
! I dissipated in the room in the form of ammonia
| or volatile ammbniacal salts, or where are
j they ? One series of experiments is not enough
! to warrant drawing an absolute conclusion, so
i * Very often what are called “ materialised forms ” are nothing-
j but the mediums iii a state of dream or trance, after being freed
m bonds by spirit power. At other times, while the medium
eld by both hands, hands and arms materialised from his body
I busy at a distance from him.
is h
230 THE SPIRITUALIST. May 14. 1880.
it is to be hoped that Dr. Pnrdon’s investiga¬
tions will be continued. The publication of
the full details of the analyses on which he
bases his present conclusions would be of value.
The physiological line of research is likely to
greatly benefit mediums, because it may be
expected that particular changes in the pulse,
the temperature of the blood, and so on, accom¬
pany particular manifestations, and when these
are known and systematised no impostor will
be able to imitate the symptoms at will,
consequently genuine, mediums will be less
harassed than at present by the unjust sus¬
picions of the ignorant.
In the middle of a strong physical seance,
when a break is made in the proceedings, it
is possible that much energy, in some un-
appreciable form, is outside the body of the
medium, which consequently is only apparently
in its normal state. The instant the seance is
resumed, materialised hands and arms can
usually present themselves; there is not a
moment’s delay. Whereas, at the beginning of
a seance, it may take fifteen or twenty minutes
to obtain a display of a similar amount of power.
 * 
Next Tuesday, at 6.30 p.m., the Annual General
Meeting of the members of the National Association of
Spiritualists, will be held at 38, Great Russell Street,
London. In response to a memorial asking that the
members might be permitted to express an opinion by
vote whether they would like the Council reduced to
twenty persons, voting papers have been issued allowing
the members to say whether they would like the Council
reduced to thirty-six.
A German Professor Nonplussed.—Herr Christian
Reimers, of 47, Mornington Road, London, writes to
us:—“ A German Professor in Munich, got hold of Dr.
Priese’s book, Voices from the Spirit-land, and tossed it
aside in disgust, after reading only the title. Im¬
mediately raps round the book startled the (evidently
mediumistic) savant, and he removed it to another
place, but the raps again called his attention in same
manner. Then he carefully read the book, was con¬
verted, and is nowa confirmedchampionof Spiritualism.”
Death of an Austrian Medium.—“ E. G.” informs
us that continental Spiritualists have just sustained a
great loss in the death of Mr. Anton Prochaszka,
Secretary to the Spiriter Forscher, at Budapest, of which
association he was also one of the chief media. The
nature of his mediumship, which comprised trance¬
speaking and writing, may best be judged of by a pe¬
rusal of Reforrrcirende Blatter, a monthly periodical, in
which messages through the mediumship of the
Baroness Yon Yay frequently appear. TJie deceased
not only allowed himself to be the channel for regular
and frequent spirit-intercourse of a high order, but he,
notwithstanding his worldly vocation, found time for
the fulfilment of his duties as secretary and cor¬
respondent of his association, as well as for the re¬
vision and publishing of his own and other medial
writings, and without any pecuniary remuneration.
Mr. Anton Prochdszka died on the 18th of April, in the
midst of his work, to the great sorrow of his friends,
more especially to those at Budapest, among whom his
departure from this sphere of action will be severely felt.
M THE PHYSIOLOGY AND PHILOSOPHY OE
MEDIUMSHIP.
BY JOHN E. PURDON, M.B.
In thinking some years ago over the problem
)| of work effected during medinmistic mani-
festations, when the muscular system of the
(| medium was prevented from entering as a
I' factor into its production, it appeared to me
;| advisable to gain, if possible, some knowledge
!( of the tissue changes taking place within the
Jj body of the medium. An opportunity having
>| offered, when two powerful male mediums
Sj were staying in my house on a short professional
ll visit, I collected and submitted to chemical
J| analysis through the assistance of an expert
jj chemist, eight specimens with the view of ob-
)j taining differential data. One truly remarkable
>j result was obtained, namely, the fact that the
<j specimen which corresponded to the stance
which was held on the day selected, showed a
>| very marked fall, to the extent of about thirty
sj per cent, in the quantity of urea excreted, and
<j this only in the instance of the medium who
>j was in full power, the other suffering at the
Sj time from a slight febrile cold which pre-
<| vented the usual display of his mediumistic
<j abilities. The specimens corresponding to
?j the intervals before and after the stance showed
Sj nothing that could be regarded as striking,
sj It was therefore evident that during the stance
<j conditions obtained which were unfavourable
\\ t j the elimination of urea, if the results of the
Sj analyses were to be depended upon, an ob-
sj jection against which I endeavoured to guard,
(j by having the analyses made by an old
Sj university friend, upon whose ability I had
Sj complete reliance, so that no preconceived
sj notion of my own interfered as a disturbing
Sj element; a precaution all the more important
Sj as the result had been anticipated by me. I
S! give this experiment for what it is worth, in
| the hope that others who have good oppor-
(j tunities may confirm or correct my statement.
Sj One experiment or set of experiments is simply
Sj suggestive, no more.
Urea is a nitrogenised principle derived
SJ from the incomplete combustion of albumenoid
Sj matter. Its origin in the body can hardly be
Sj attributed to other than retrograde metamor-
s| phosis of built up tissues, nothwithstanding
c that its direct production by oxidation from
j nitrogenised food in the blood, is well within
ij the limits of possibility, though Flint says,
j although our experimental knowledge does
j not warrant the unreserved conclusion that
urea is produced primarily in the nitrogenised
parts of the organism, particularly the mus¬
cular tissue, this view is exceedingly probable.
231
May 14, 1880. THE SPI
The indications offered by nrea were misunder¬
stood, until it was definitely settled by an
appeal to experiment that the work done by
the human body could not be measured by
the amount of that principle excreted. It is
quite true that if a man be fed on an ex¬
clusively vegetable fat and sugar diet, then
the urea excreted will be entirely due to waste
of formed material, principally muscle, con¬
sequent on its physiological activity, and so
far urea will be a true indication that at the
least, so much work has been done. But the
excretion of urea is nearly in proportion to
the quantity of nitrogen contained in the food
after a certain standard quantity is reached,
and therefore it must be remembered that if
the amount excreted be supplied from two
mediate sources, the cutting off of one of these
sources of supply may greatly lower the
rate of removal of urea from the system and
yet leave a relatively large show of urea
remaining, due to a cause of far less physio¬
logical importance than that which has for the
time ceased to operate. Thus, in the case of
my experiment, the mediums had been living
on a mixed diet, which would certainly furnish
more urea that could he due to oxidation of
the muscles, and therefore a sudden and
marked fall in the amount of urea could be at¬
tributed either to arrest of combustion in the
blood, or to arrest of normal tissue change,
or to both combined, or to an accumulation of
urea in the blood. I will not attempt to
justify my choice that the fall in the amount
of urea was primarily due to some interference
with the nervous supply of the voluntary
muscles, having its origin in the central
ganglia of the brain, whereby the muscular
system was thrown out of gear, leaving the
will free to externalise potential energy
through some other agency. I only say that
such a supposition, together with a fairly com¬
prehensive grasp of the modern theory of
sensation and perception, satisfy me that a
rigid application of the principle of energy to
hypothetical activities which cannot be con¬
sciously realised, will enable us to construct
the foundations of a new science which is
only for the present more properly metaphysic
and metempiric, inasmuch as its generalisations
being from matter of experience, will be
assimilated in time through the reason, and so
be in every respect similar to any other branch
of science which, dealing with mysterious in¬
fluences, as all the physical forces ultimately
do, has taken time to force itself into public
recognition.
RITU ALI S T.
/! THE FUNCTION OE MUSCLE.
It is now an evident and well established
)l fact that work is done beyond the reach of
si the medium’s body, which, however, still
l\ remains the source from which potential
?| energy locked up in the assimilated food con-
;! tained in the blood is drawn, to be converted
S| into mechanical power or actual energy of
<| motion. A few remarks on the part played
)| by muscle in the animal economy will render
S| clearer the nature of the hypothesis I am
<| about to advance, and which fact and experi-
?| ment seem to justify. I select the following
| from the Oroonian Lectures, on Matter and
Sj Force, delivered before the College of
s| Physicians, by Dr. Bence Jones, F.B.S., in
SI 1868, where Dr. Erankland, in summing up
>! his views on the origin of muscular power,
Si says at page 176 :—
“ The muscle is a machine for the conversion
S| of potential energy into mechanical force.
u The mechanical force of the muscles is
si derived chiefly, if not entirely, from the
< oxidation of matters contained in the blood,
Si and not from the oxidation of the muscles
Si themselves.
“ Like every other part of the body, the
<! muscles are constantly being renewed; but
| this renewal is not perceptibly more rapid
>| during great muscular exertion than during
Sj comparative quiescence.
u The transformation of potential energy
Sj into muscular power is necessarily accompanied
Sj by the production of heat within the body,
si even when the muscular power is exerted ex-
<! ternally. This is doubtless the chief and,
Si probably, the only source of animal heat.”
I may add finally, the destruction of muscular
sj tissue is indicated by the presence of urea in
(j the excretions.
If now, future experiments go to support
)| my observation, that during mediumistic mani-
sl festations there is a marked relative deficit of
sj urea, (a lessened amount of all solids excreted
Si in a given time would convey no particular
S| information, as such might be attributable to
<j the lowered vitality of the trance state), the
S| question arises, to what does this experimental
S| datum point. In the light of the above facts
>| as to the nature of muscle, I would say that
sj the absence of urea points to the dissociation,
Sj to some extent of the muscular system and
S| its complex of feelings underlying conscious-
; ness from the integrated whole of sense through
vj which the universe, as we know it, is given
(j stable and orderly, in obedience to laws which
£ have their counterparts in our feeling and
232
THE SPIEI
thinking nature. Through the removal of U
a limiting condition, i.e.y one of the sense ])
factors, a new universe is opened up just as |>
in the inverse case of the horn blind, to K
whom living in a universe parallel to, but not K
coincident with, ours, establishment of vision j>
revolutionises pre-existing judgments, and |S
enables the neophyte to accommodate himself |<
by a process of education to an order of reality k
existing independent of him, but from an . \)
experience of which he was debarred through K
the existence of certain physical restraints, To K
us who realise in terms of the muscular con- U
sciousness, such a state of affairs as that hinted |>
at above is not thinkable, but it is neverthe- n
less possible to deal with it in general terms |s
as a rational hypothesis.
u MUSCULAR ” SCIENCE.
Cause, personal power, muscular con- |>
tractility, force, are four notions that are very <
closely blended in the human mind, and the k
metaphysician knows that it is because of >
our obtrusively intimate knowledge of personal j>
power and muscular activity, that our grasp of <
cause and force is so feeble and our vision of k
them so dim. An apology seems therefore to j>
be needed, when it is proposedto accountforthe >
doing of work without the aid of the muscular js
system. But let the objector ask himself what [<
it is that prevents him from moving a chair
at the other side of the room. The answer, jS
that the nature of his constitution is such that k
he cannot do work beyond the reach of his j<
arm, contains a fallacy; i.e. the tacit as- |;
sumption (an induction from previous ex- jS
perience) that it cannot be made long enough js
or otherwise modified, or that a something ?
quite independent of the muscular system )
cannot be employed. The true answer to the ij
question is, that he does not know how to k
do it. We who have studied Spiritualism k
practically, know that the appeal to the |>
uniformity of nature so often advanced to con- K
trovert its wonders, is not logically put when k
the addendum, sine qua non, “ the conditions |)
remaining the same,” is forgotten or ignored j>
by those who fail to make perfect examination js
into the changes taking place in the nature K
of the medium himself. But it must be re- tt
membered that we are in a position of ad- j)
vantage with regard to those who have not had H
our experience of these things, and that it is [<
only from our point of view that such an k
answer as that objected to above is fallacious; jj>
experience alone is our guide as well as theirs, [s
but our experience is the more extended.
During manifestations the store of potential
Mat 14, 1880.
energy in the blood is called upon as in other
modes of work, the medium not knowing how
it is that the call is responded to; but neither
does he know how it is that he is enabled to
call upon the same store through the familiar
fact of a voluntary effort. The latter is simply
a more familiar fact, for the ordinary and the
extraordinary are equally mysterious in a last
analysis; a truth lost sight of by those who
concentrate their powers on the denial of the
extraordinary as matter of fact, in a mistaken
zeal for the honor of the laws of nature and their
Maker, when it is merely an alteration of sense
machinery with its attendant consequence, the
opening up of new possibilities, which they
are ignoring. Experimental examination
alone is adequate to furnish the data from
which to reason out the nature of the
mechanical change, for the problem is one in
vital dynamics, and is not confined to wordy
metaphysics—or metempirios, if the word be
preferred.
DB. a. haughton’s experiments.
The Rev. Professor Haughton, M.D., F.R.S.,
of the University of Dublin, has endeavoured
to prove experimentally that a certain minimum
excretion of urea is constantly demanded for
the preservation of health and the functional
stability of the human body. He proves that
this minimum is related to the weight of the
individual, according to the rule that for every
pound of body weight there is an excretion of
two grains of urea in the twenty-four hours.
The work or exhaustion of potential energy
corresponding to the destruction of tissue
which this excretion represents, he regards as
vital work and practically constant; he might
have added, if the mode through which work
is done and the world is given remains un¬
altered. This vital expenditure has correspond¬
ing to it a condition of tension of potentiality or
muscular preparedness, so to say, representing
a position of advantage from which work is done
with the greatest economy of time, such, for
instance, as would follow from the use of a
a head ” of energy, from the transformation of
which work would immediately follow on the
transmission of an order from the directing
centre. But it by no means follows that other
mechanical contrivances, involving their own
conditions, may not, at times, be adopted by
nature for the consummation of extraordinary
work in obedience to the dictates of a Designing
Intelligence; hence the hypothesis of partial
dissociation of the muscular system when sup¬
ported by its corresponding indication—absence
of urea—is justifiable, or at any rate deserving
T U A LI S T.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
233
Mat 14, 1880.
of some consideration in face of the fact that
work is actually done without the intervention
of the medium’s muscular apparatus as a rigid
system between design and performance. This |
dissociation of the stream of feelings ac- j
companying activity of the muscular system j
to a greater or less extent would run parallel j
to, and be accounted for by, changes in the j
supply of blood, and in the strength of electric |
and nervous currents circulating in the nervous I
centres, but whether resulting in special in- !
hibitory or stimulating influences it would be i
mere guess-work to speculate upon. Experi- j
ment gives a good deal of information as to the
behaviour of the brain under the influence of |
various stimulating and destructive agencies, j
and from analogy it requires no great stretch of |
imagination to picture extraordinary phenomena I
as the result of an interference, during an effort I
of memory or volition, with the ordinary j
routine of physical changes taking place within I'
the brain of a medium or sensitive, under the j<
influence of a predisposition developed through \\
exercise into an actual physical factor. We Ij
are fortunately not called on to forecast or |j
anticipate the actualisation of such vague pos- K
sibilities, for they exist, have long existed, and w
now call loudly for a rational explanation, in
such terms as may permit men of sober judg- j<
ment, to give them their place in a record of j<
matter of fact relating to events occurring in j<
what is commonly called the border land.
It would be going beyond the limit of such |<
an article as this if I attempted to give reasons k
for my belief that the extraordinary functional |)
activity suggested above, has its central organic |j
counterpart in certain definite parts of the |s
brain, but I will remark that it appears neces- k
sary to the adoption of my theory of medium- D
ship to allow that particular cortical areas and p
those parts of the brain where sign co-ordination K
is localised, must be very materially influenced. |?
HUMAN INTELLECT NECESSARY FOR THE DISPLAY OF j)
INTELLIGENT MANIFESTATIONS.
It is a matter of fact that no animal but |<
man ever has been or ever can be, with the |
full consciousness of his office, a medium for j)
the display of intelligent manifestations invol- p
ving a process of thought up to the level of an js
ordinary child’s capacity, and for the simple k
reason that no other animal possesses the highly |>
specialised brain necessary to the production o
of such a result as that of a general notion, K
conception or abstract idea. It may be possible j?
to train a parrot to imitate human speech, but pj
then the words will have passed almost directly jsj
tohistongue through his ears, and the discourse, $;
| as far as the bird is concerned, is nothing but
I a reflected motion. I do say that it is im-
| possible, in the strictest sense of the word, that
| one of the lower animals could absorb from me
I anything but lowly organized feelings through
their corresponding motions, and use the same
as determinative to a definite activity, and
therefore I say that, provided I could elimi¬
nate my own brain as a producing factor, a
sermon, if preached by a wild animal, would
have, to my mind, an incalculably greater claim
to be regarded as inspired ab extra than the
same discourse would have when coming from
the lips of the most learned and virtuous prelate
in the flesh; and by parity of reasoning, I would
feel myself compelled to study the psychical
side of mediumship in a very young infant, in
preference to calling in the assistance of the
most truthful adult of my acquaintance j for
though the infant possesses the organs in a
high state of development, the want of their
exercise would leave them practically a tabula
rasa as regards the ideas which hang together
through the instrumentality of a system of signs,
arbitrary in the first instance and artificial to
the end. I cannot help thinking that a riper
knowledge of this mysterious subject will go
far to show that man alone exhibits himself
as what is understood by the term medium,
because man alone uses artificial combinations
as symbols of real existence, and regards them
as unvarying during a process of cerebral
activity in the submental state, corresponding
to which they are combined and manipulated,
as in algebra, but according to unwritten and
instinctive laws. The error having been made
with the symbols, the underlying reality pays
the penalty by being misrepresented when the
conclusion arrived at is retranslated into terms
of real existence.
MEDIUMSHIP CONSIDERED IN RELATION TO THE MORAL
SENSE.
The doctrine of evolution maintains that the
moral sense and instincts are the crown to the
process of development of man as we find him
at present on the earth. Comparative anatomy
and psychology prove that as an intelligent
being there is no comparison possible between
man and the highest of the lower animals, their
thought processes (however purposive their
actions) being probably inconceivable, as such,
to us from their crudeness and simplicity. In
the great theatre of sensation, we are probably,
as in that of motion, on the same platform,
though on a lower level in certain obvious
respects. How in the case of mediumship re¬
garded as a derangement of the organism, motor
234
THE SPIE
disturbances, including under that term those
of the circulation of the blood and its varied
apparatus, are the foundation of all those sub¬
sequent developments which in some exhibit
themselves as psychical and in others as phy¬
siological peculiarities, so that while that phase
of human activity is essentially distinct from
disease, we cannot shut our eyes to the fact
that there is a certain parallelism or relation¬
ship existing between them. In fact my
observations go to show that mediumship is a
means of escape from disease in the case of
those of its possessors who have not, through
cultivation, established a natural healthful
outlet, and that if the individual had not this
gift or faculty of energising externally, the
outcome of the source or spring of work-doing
power confined to the body would be de¬
structive in its tendency through mischievous
degradation of energy. Hence the intimate
relation between mediumship on the one side
and hysteria, with all functional nervous dis¬
orders, on the other. Mediumship is a
misfortune, and implies a distinct diathesis,
in my opinion related to the hystero-gouty,
which demands a compensatory eliminative ac¬
tivity for the preservation of health.
The best established fact as to the nature
of physical mediums is unquestionably the
inferior development of (or destructive change
induced in) that highest part of human nature,
the moral and social instinctive impulse to¬
wards right doing for its own sake. As a
rule these people are not to be trusted, and it
is quite certain that if mediumship became
more general, the moral tone of its professors
remaining as it is, mediums would be stamped
out by the rest of mankind in self defence;
and there would be nothing new in this, as
the history of witchcraft amply shows. The
possession of indefinite physical power and the
attainment of an ideal standard of perfection
in morals, sum up the common notion of an
angel; indefinite power added to intense
moral obliquity are attributes enough to define
a devil. Somewhere between the two the
medium must be content to take his place, the
attribute of indefinite physical power alone
differentiating him from his fellow men. This
being granted, for it cannot be consistently
denied by those who draw the above dis¬
tinctions, common sense will oblige them to
couple the moral imperfection with the
physical peculiarity which is therefore an imper¬
fection as well, if the attainment of the highest
morality is the final goal of human effort.
This inference is sound on evolutionary
ITUALIST. Mat 14, 1880.
>1 principles, and it clearly shows that it would
s| be wrong and immoral to put any man in the
| position of being able to rob his neighbour’s
pocket or read his thoughts without being
>j found out. Apart from the great and necessary
sj scientific interest attaching to the subject,
51 which the consciousness of the part it is to
?! play in the philosophy of the future impresses
upon me, I often ask myself, what else can
S\ the so-called development of mediumship ac-
<| complish for its possessor. There may be
?j certain exceptions, as in the case of artistic
)| mediums, but I fear the advantages are dearly
sj bought. Our powers are adapted to our
(j legitimate wants, neither more nor less, and
>| increased opportunities mean increased temp-
Sj tations. We are not in a sufficient state of ad-
sj vancement to wield indefinite physical powers.
<j The moral to be drawn from this true state-
?! ment of the case is, that mediums’ words
>j and sayings, and so-called teachings, should be
sj judged on their merits, while their actions
,j and manifestations should be jealously tested,
>j no one individual act or manifestation being
sj permitted to stand sponsor for another.
Sj THE INFLUENCE OF WILL UPON THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM.
The importance of considering the muscular
?j system regarded as the last instrument of will
Sj and design in the theoretical consideration of
sj mediumship, cannot be too strongly urged,
a It is only where counters or symbols of thought
?j and feeling are used, that attempts at deception
)j are possible, and it is not difficult to imagine
Sj a state of existence where attempts to deceive
<| would be ridiculous, and only to be understood
?| in joke from the illogical nature of any more
Sj serious interpretation. But then the com-
s| munication of mind with mind, or spirit with
<j spirit would be direct, the objective fact of their
?j reciprocal relationship being the subjective
Sj fact of their identity of feeling. Muscle, the
sj interposed medium between two thinking
\\ beings, may be the medium of deception as
?j well as of communication of truth; for are not
Sj words said to be used for the concealment of
Sj thoughts by certain astute members of the
j community ? But further, muscle may be-
?! come the instrument of misrepresentation in
Sj self-communion, where the lie of design is the
s| mistake of involuntary deception. The out-
?j come however, is the same when a false belief
?| is first rendered possible, and is ultimately
Sj established through the breach of continuity
Sj resulting from the introduction of a non-
| homogeneous element. Conscious sensibility
(j and mental activity through the medium of
) j words and vital activities externalised through
THE SPIRITUALIST.
235
May 14, 1880.
the contraction of muscles, cannot be regarded \\
as homogeneous with the same processes in |<
beings unencumbered with the purely physical f?
instruments called muscles, though when all |>
goes right and no error creeps in at the points Is
of junction, the processes may be strictly |<
analogous, and present results rigidly identical. |(
It is in the close relationship and possible |?
ultimate identity of sensation and motion, that j>
the reconciliation of spiritualistic departures |i
from the ordinary course of nature is to be I
looked for. All that we have given us in the j
primitive physiological datum, is the influence I
of an external stimulus reacted to and answered | i
by a message transmitted along a set of nerves H
different from those which conveyed the original |)
molecular disturbance to the interior of the \\
organism. Physiology is quite silent as to the j
reception, absorption, disintegration and ulti- K
mate redistribution of the combined elements tt
which enter the nerve centres as messages from I)
without, creating a commotion which results in is
readjustment, accomplished by the agency of k
motion; the muscular system constituting the |j
special instrument of that in one sense highest, |i
because most completely transformable, type of ! j
energy, that of permanent matter moving in k
space. j>
It is not contended that any other than a ! j
sensori-motor process is elemental in the | j
nervous activity of a medium; in fact quite the K
contrary. It is suggested however that sensori- jS
motor elements are so grouped as to result in j>
something quite different from a muscular con- |s
traction, as seen and felt, with the ordinary k
subjective consequences attending such a |j
manifestation of feeling and energy; for con- | i
sciousness itself requiring muscle as an integral I j
factor, the consequence of an interference with j J
the muscular system cannot be subjectively |j
followed by the being in whom such change |j
obtains, though the physical change in his Is
organs can become a possible object to an ob- k
server to whom they may be said, as a quite j)
new physiological combination, to represent an !>
unique physical experience. In fine, existence | s
in terms of both the external order of nature k
and internal order of thought, though given |;
to us consciously or subconsciously by the K
aid of signs and forms into the construction of |i
which the muscular system essentially enters, Ij
may yet have a counterpart in terms of altered I j
functional activities of that which to our vulgar | j
everyday experience is the nervous system, the is
underlying reality corresponding to which, !j
though beyound our ken, we may safely as- |S
sume in face of our extended knowledge of K
human powers, to be available as substratum
to any possible experience.
THE RELATION OF DREAM LIFE TO MATERIALISED FORMS
AT SEANCES.
Our bodies are, to use Clifford’s words,
merely complicated examples of practically
universal rules, and I will add that I know no
law or principle which would prevent dreams
from being expressed in terms of matter and
motion and demonstrated as such to the unre¬
lated observer. The man who moves about
and holds converse with me in my dream is
supplied with his pseudo personality by me the
dreamer. The materialized figure that moves
before my waking eyes under the magic power
of a medium is compelled by that medium and,
as an object before my eyes, is merely a mani¬
festation of energy, abnormal and out of the
common it may be, yet still obedient to physical
laws if we only knew them ; but from its quasi-
subjective side it can only be regarded as the
medium's ego out of joint in the guise of a
dreamself. Let it be well remembered that
the word dream is not confined to incoherent
nonsensical presentation, but may also stand for
organized truth-bearing experience, in which
latter sense I here use it, though in an extended
application to the space reals of matter and
motion so familiar to the student of modern
Spiritualism. In the absurd and chaotic mani¬
festations which are furnished by undeveloped
mediums we have the homologue of the non¬
sensical dream, but as the dreamself becomes
moulded into a definite something we have a
corresponding order introduced into its pheno¬
menal manifestations, and finally when we have
such a wonderful exhibition of energy under
the control of will as that furnished by a figure
moving about apart and apparently separate
from the medium’s body, yet displaying intelli¬
gence and a play of thought indistinguishable
from that of the medium, we are driven to adopt
the dreamself theory to save the psychological
method which will not permit the introduction
of an entity into the organism that was not
there before. We believe on the strongest
ground of analogy that the store of energy
possessed by the medium is called upon to sup¬
ply, and that (generally) it alone does supply,
the purely physical and objective side of the
manifestation. We believe too on the strongest
ground of analogy that the nervous and cerebral
mechanism of the medium is instrumental and
necessary in the display of intelligence not
wholly different from that of the medium, how¬
ever the personality may be modified, and
consequently we are driven to conclude that
236
THE SPIRITUALIST.
a relation exists between the new subject of
sensation, thought and volition, and its agent,
analogous to that existing between the old
subject and the unmodified human body. We
thus find that the logical justification of the
hypothesis of the dreamself lies in the ac¬
knowledgment of the establishment to our
satisfaction of the reality of extraordinary
phenomena, while we still maintain the inviol¬
ability of the principle of the conservation of
energy.
It may be said that what I call the dream-
self is only the mediuni’s own ego, transformed
or transfigured. No : such an expression is to
me meaningless. My theory implies that for
a definite change in the body of the medium a
corresponding definite change has taken place
in the apparatus of feeling, and woven feelings
which we call thought.
It appears to me that the difficulties of
modern Spiritualism are more easily approached
from the side of feeling and thought than from
that of motion and action, for we wonder not
so much to see extraordinary powers of doing
as extraordinary powers of knowing displayed
by mediums, hence the charm in the study of
clairvoyance. My theory of mediumship while
essentially based on changes relating to motion,
—while in fact a generalisation from the
indications of physical mediumship—aims at
constructing, by the application of the psy¬
chological method, the foundation of the
rational application of clairvoyance, regarded
as a psychical fact as real as memory or
imagination, in a new method by which light
will be thrown on questions hitherto unmanage¬
able,
The dreamself is advanced as the link be¬
tween any possible phenomenon and its under¬
lying reality, just as the ego and its forms
constitute the link between the actual, as pre¬
sented in consciousness, and its underlying
reality. The living human body subject to
practically universal rules, (and more par¬
ticularly so as long as their variations are not
looked for or are blatantly ignored,) has in cor¬
respondence with its thinking machinery an
inflexible ego, whereby it always regards itself
as a practically unalterable phenomenon, this
holding through the fact of its unaltered
functional activities, i.e,, through the limi¬
tations of its possible experience. Dreamself,
on the contrary, is in correspondence with the
modified thinking machinery of the human
body, the practically universal rules of which
are relaxed, From the objective side it is an
output of that fluid physical reality, emerging
May 14, 1880.
from which all bodies take form according to
particular laws; from its subjective side, it is
a state or condition when (and perhaps whereby)
a greater range is permitted to man’s powers
of representation. Dreamself is essentially an
inference forced upon us when we endeavour
to account rationally for certain powers
possessed by another. I cannot picture a
dreamself in my own case, because in every
act of thought I know my ego to be unchanged,
but I can grant you as good a right to think of
me as so changed as I claim to think of
you in similar case. There is here the reverse
of that process whereby I acknowledge another
to possess a personality similar to my own. I
argue from myself in the latter case, and I re¬
turn to myself in the former, allowing as a
legitimate inference that of which I can never
possess direct knowledge, namely, a changed
subjectivity wherein myself becomes dream¬
self.
Dreamself is the term I use to cover the
entire subjectivity of medium plus extra¬
ordinary phenomenon, whether that substantial
feeling be manifested through the motions and
words of a dressed figure, beautiful as a
Grecian statue, or through alphabetical knocks
given by the leg of a deal table. Dreamself
implies feeling, and we are forced to the belief
that that feeling covers a more varied order
of existence than we can picture to ourselves,
but there is no evidence to show that it
represents anything higher than passes through
the mind of man ; rather the contrary. The
mesmeric patient exhibits the phenomena of
dreamself in a typical manner. There is in
such a case manifestly an extension of feeling
beyond the usual limit. This may or may
not occur with an unaltered personality ; the
patient or sensitive may feel himself changed
in some way from his old and familiar self, or
he may merely recognise the fact that the old
self is in an exalted state, or finally he may
appear to the observer to be an entirely
changed being, himself having been entirely
displaced by dreamself. On this question of
feeling the observer can form no direct judg¬
ment ; he can only infer from evidence brought
before him that some change is produced in
the apparatus of thought, through which feel¬
ing is presented as object, since it is unthink¬
able to him how he could reproduce the
phenomena under similar circumstances. But
when the sensitive furnishes his evidence of
the extraordinary not in words only, but in
acts which may be left to speak for themselves
in the shape of rational inference, forced on
May 14, 1880.
237
THE SPIRITUALIST.
the mind of the observer, who remarks,— \(
^ You may or may not be a materialised spirit | j
but at any rate you are a thing, for the time, jj
visible and tangible,”—when such is the case, |s
I say, is it not a mere misinterpretation of the <
phenomena, qua phenomena, if an attempt be 1)
made to divorce them from those presented |)
by mesmeric sensitives in favourable cases ? is
The theory of the dreamself is as ap- k
plicable in the former, as it unquestionably j?
is in the latter instance. Ego, or self, is a
special experience in the case of each healthy |s
man and not a thing, any more than heat or j?
cold. Let it be once understood that it is a j;
special experience in some way related to the is
body, which is the agent and instrument of k
feeling and motion (a sign, it may be, of a j)
higher and more substantial reality), and the |)
difficulty of acknowledging the dreamself |s
theory as affording a more scientific expression k
for the subjective change than that offered by |?
the “ spirits ” hypothesis will be overcome at j)
once. It introduces a working formula in Is
contradistinction to a dogmatic explanation, <
preserving at the same time an elasticity which |)
permits it to be adapted to an indefinite |s
psychological advance.
The careful reader will perceive that the
philosophic difference between the two theories I;
lies not alone in the substitution of the singular is
for the plural, but far more in the recognition K
of the substantial importance of Spirit, to the h
rejection of spirits as causal factors, be they j!
angels, glorified bodies, or what not; Spirit |;
being the reality underlying even feeling itself, b
in continuity with, and inseparable from itself, i!
and, although in plastic correspondence with ||
physical changes, yet that of which the universe r
of the senses is only a sign and a changing 1
vesture. The key to the whole mystery lies j)
in the knowledge of the fhct that while we j)
contemplate ego we are still outside and r
apart from spirit which yet dwells within us, |
which though I cannot well prove it, is an |
inference as thoroughly sound and valid as j
that my neighbour too can feel as well as say j
cogito et sum.
The possibility of Spiritualism and the justi- I
fication of its claim to a place in the history |
of man lie in the character of the logical move- 1
ment from within outward, viz., myself, our- j
self, himself and finally dreamself, the last term |
affording a glimpse of the process in which |
spirit hides itself in what we call inanimate |
matter, but were the occlusion is not complete |
and the irreversible consummation is not |
finally established. j
SPIRITUALISM*
?Y THE HOST. PERCY "WYNDHAM, M.P,
I cannot bring these desultory remarks to a
close without a passing allusion to modern
Spiritualism, and I had better at once put
myself right with my audience by announcing
my belief in the reality of the phenomena;
an avowal I am not ashamed to make in
company with such men as Mr. William
Crookes, Mr. Yarley, Professor Zollner, Mr.
Wallace, Lords Lindsay and Rayleigh. If
asked to define and explain the ultimate cause
of the phenomena, which I believe to be
genuine, I should be obliged to confess my
inability to do this, a confession which might
be much more widely made in regard to other
beliefs, with the same degree of truth. I have
my own theories and inclinations towards con¬
victions, but I should like all who may take an
interest in these matters to admit that we
have not yet reached the stage for enunciations
of theories and systems. What people who
are interested in the enquiry have to do is to
register, sift, and catalogue the facts. With
regard to the phenomena themselves, I accept
the thesis which most Spiritualists would
accept, namely, 11 that they have discovered a
force unknown to science, governed by an
intelligence outside a human body.” Let us
assume, then, what is a fact, that the truth of
the phenomena is attested, after careful ex¬
amination, by numbers of intelligent men.
What is there that should prevent us accepting
their testimony ? Instances of trickery and
fraud, common in this as in other matters, do
not affect those instances where a belief in
their presence would necessitate an amount of
credulity far greater than that which is in¬
veighed against. The triviality of the mani¬
festations does not shake it. Professor Huxley
once said that even supposing Spiritualism were
true he did not care to listen to spirits whose
conversation never rose above the level of the
gossip of a provincial town. A very fair re¬
mark, and one in which all frequenters of
spirit circles must often have felt inclined to
concur; but after all the question still is,
are the phenomena genuine ? and if this is at¬
tested by the evidence of credible witnesses,
what is said or done at spirit circles is for the
present at least of secondary importance. We
are not, I suppose, to assume that we ^are, in
virtue of our inner consciousness, perfectly ac¬
quainted with every possible condition of spirit
* A portion of a presidential address delivered last week before
the Cumberland Association for the Advancement of Literature
and Science, Maryport, and extracted hy us from the Carlisle
Patriot, May 7th, 1880.
238
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 14, 1880.
life, assuming its existence, and that every¬
thing that does not immediately square with
these preconceived ideas is to be dismissed at
once. We might remember that when a fresh
vista of discovery is opened to our eyes we at
first see but a portion of the realm of fact it
may reveal to us.
What, then, is the value of the discoveries
of Spiritualism, assuming them to be true?
Trivial and perplexing as they are for the most
part in themselves, their value lies in this, that
once the existence of anything in the nature of
spirit is admitted, the whole fabric of material¬
ism as the only possible basis of our existence
falls to the ground. With it goes much that
is deduced from it, and beliefs that had been
supposed to be laid at rest for ever begin to
reassert the possibility of their truth. We
are, however, told by men of science that we
are not to believe the evidence of credible
witnesses in certain cases, and according to Dr.
Carpenter the standard by which they are to
be tried is the standard of common sense.
Thus, in paragraph 530 of his book on Mental
Physiology, we are told that
“Every one who accepts as facts, merely on the
evidence of his own senses, or on the testimony of others
who partake of his beliefs, what common sense tells him
to be much more probably the fiction of his own
imagination, even though confirmed by the testimony
of hundreds with the same epidemic delusion, must be
regarded as the subject of a diluted insanity.”
This is all very well, but the testimony of
intelligent credible men has the same value in
all time. Common sense is a constantly shift¬
ing standard. The common sense as to what
is possible of the reign of Elizabeth, or of ten
years ago, is the common nonsense of the reign
of Victoria, and the present year. But Dr.
Carpenter is reasonable compared with Dr.
Beard, of New York.
“ Other factors,” writes Dr. Beard, “ being the same,
a common-place man without logic, or imagination, or
education, or aspiration, would be less likely to be con¬
quered by a delusion than a successful lawyer, or judge,
or scientific discoverer ; for logical, well-trained, truth-
loving minds, the only security against spiritism is in
hiding or running away. If they venture a fair and j
open attack and are true to their convictions and j
necessities of logic, they must unconditionally surrender, j
If Sir Isaac Newton were alive to-day he would not j
unlikely be a convert to spiritism: the amount of human j
testimony in favour of spiritualistic claims is a million- |
fold greater than that in favour of the theory of gravity. \
The late Judge Edmonds used to say that he sifted the j
evidence of spirit manipulations just as he sifted the
evidence in cases of law, and in accordance with the
same principles, and from the standard of the law books j
and the Universities, his position was impregnable.”
I confess tbis takes my breath, away; the only j
conclusion it seems to point to is that ignorance |
| and lack of knowledge are safer guides than
| their opposites. From Dr. Carpenter and Dr.
| Beard let us pass to a greater name, that of
Professor Tyndall; in his well-known essay,
/Science and the Spirits, he writes as follows :—
“ Belief in Spiritualism is a state perfectly compatible
with extreme intellectual subtilty, and a capacity for
devising hypotheses which only require the hardihood
engendered by strong conviction to render them im¬
pregnable. The logical feebleness of science is not
sufficiently borne in mind. It keeps down the weed of
superstition, not by logic, but by slowly rendering the
mental soil unfit for its cultivation.”
This is sound and excellent, but danger lurks
in its unqualified acceptance. Let us all be¬
ware of the impediments acquired knowledge
places in the way of obtaining more. It has
been said with truth that all women and most
men generalise a great deal too much. Any
flattering unction the sterner sex may lay to
their souls on the score of this saying is more
than dissipated by the fact that as they for the
most part think on more important matters, so
their generalisations are the more mischievous
in their consequences. An article by Lord
Brougham in the Edinburgh Review, based on
deductions drawn from acquired facts, postponed
the recognition of the true undulatory theory
of light for sixty years. To reason without
generalising from acquired facts would be like
refusing to use logarithms in a proposition of
algebra. But the confidence we can repose in
one process is not the same confidence we can
place in the other. The deductions we may
draw from facts acquired, or supposed to be
acquired, should lead us only, never guide us.
The word “ impossible ” should be sparingly
used. “ Highly improbable,” u totally incon¬
sistent with the recognised views of existing
facts,” are more philosophic. Nay, more, we
may be called upon to allow two theories,
each supported with evidence of the same
value, and each absolutely irreconcileable with
each other, to lie side by side in our minds till
more extended knowledge establishes one and
destroys the other, or shows that after all
they are not irreconcileable. How easy for the
amateur, how difficult for the discoverer and
the man of science ! His invention, his dis¬
covery, his recognised theory is not only true
in itself, but look at it properly, and it is much
more a key and compendium of the universe.
With a slight tendency to look at only the
affirmative side the conviction grows that it,
and the deductions that can be logically drawn
from it, explain everything. The next step is
as certain, but not so innocent in its effects.
Everything it cannot explain is nonsense, and
THE SPIRITUALIST.
239
May 14, 1880
has no existence. Tiresome men make fresh
discoyeries, they are hushed for a time, or for
their life, hut others rise in their places.
More strange still, facts discover themselves,
they are shown to be the result of trickery or
credulity, but, as Carlyle has said, they still
stand there like questions waiting for an
answer, and what is more, refuse altogether to
go away till they get one. Let us ever keep our
minds open to evidence, remembering that
knowledge has a tendency to turn the key of
her treasure house, lest a portion should be
found on closer examination to be dross, and
as the knowledge of yesterday is often the
ignorance of to-day, so the human mind may
still be only on the threshold of discovery.
PSYCHOGKRAPHY.
On Wednesday night, last week, at a stance
at 21, Green Street, Grosvenor Square, London,
Mr. Rita was the medium; the witnesses pre¬
sent were Mrs. Makdougall Gregory and her
guests, among whom were Mr. Annesley Mayne,
of the Junior Carlton Club, Mrs. Wiseman,
Archdeacon Dunbar, Mrs. Duncan, Mr. Long,
and Mr. Harrison. Mr. Mayne placed a crumb
of pencil between the leaves of a well-cleaned,
newly bought book-slate, never previously seen
or touched by the medium. He tied a string
tightly round it, longitudinally, and sealed it
at both ends of the slate, so that the wooden
leaves were held together by the seals as well
as by the string, the knot of which was also
sealed over. During the dark sitting writing
and flourishes were scrawled over one-fourth
of the inside of the closed slate, and the words
u Good night” were decipherable with diffi¬
culty. The fastenings of the slate had in no
way been tampered with.
 —♦ 
€axn^mhvi,it.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express
opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal and its
readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; copies
should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.]  
MB. SERJEANT COX.
Sir,—Is there reason to believe that any message has
come from Mr. Seijeant Oox, about which there
can be no doubt on the score of authenticity; we know
that if he could ho would communicate, and his know¬
ledge of the phenomena would give him every advan¬
tage in such attempts. In the absence of such commu¬
nication (if so it be) what are we to think ?
J. Hawkins Simpson.
May 4th, 1880. —
ASTROLOGY.
Sir,—Since the'publication of my letter on the astro¬
logical indications of insanity I have obtained the
birthdays of two persons who have become insane to
the knowledge of my correspondent, a well-known pro¬
fessional gentleman in Manchester. As he expressed
an entire disbelief in the rule which it is my objeot to
v j test, we have security that the cases he forwards are not
> i selected on account of their conformity to the rule. But
)! what do we find ? That in each of the cases Mercury is
S within 5° of conjunction with a malefic ! The chances
)j against this, supposing no natural connection between
<| the affliction of Mercury and insanity, are, as already
)j pointed out, more than 7 to 1. I hope, therefore, I
?! shall not be thought unduly importunate in again ask-
sj ing for more cases. The day and year of birth are all
)| I want. 0. 0. Massey.
) i Temple, May 8th. ♦ 
S | Much interesting matter is kept over till next week,
) | in order to make room in this number of The Spiritualist
(\ for Dr. Purdon’s record of experiments and Dream-
) | self hypothesis.
)i A Prophetic Dream.—The police records of the
si city of New York show that on March 27th, while a
)| tramp was eating a breakfast given him by Mrs.
cj Sarah I. Harris, of No. 247, West 50th Street, in that
Si city, a woman selling vegetables came in. The latter
)i said to Mrs. Harris, “1 had a dream last night in
s | which I saw you murdered in cold blood by a person
)| resembling this man.” Mrs. Harris then endeavoured
c! to get rid of the tramp, but he drew a pair of shears
S demanding money, and while Mrs. Harris hesitated he
)j stabbed her in the abdomen, and then attacked the
<! vegetable woman, driving her into the street, after
Sj which he escaped, but has now been finally arrested.—
)[ JReligio-Philosophical Journal.
<1 Theatrical.—On Thursday, last week, at a morning
Si performance at the Olympic Theatre, Miss Ella Dietz
c j took the character of Juliet, in Romeo and Juliet, and
Si displayed a fire and spirit in the part, which would
Si have surprised those who have seen her only in her
vi quiet and elegant drawing-room representations. In
Sj the balcony scene especially, she shone to advantage,
Si and none the less that in this portion of the performance
Sj her distinct enunciation made every syllable audible to
S j every listener in the house, a point which in itself is
Si gratifying to the general public, who so often are
Sj aggravated in exerting themselves to discover what
) j star actresses are saying, when—like Daily Telegraph
Si leading articles upon divers jumping from bridges—
Sj they are “piling on the agony.” Mr. Maude acted as
) j Romeo, and was covered with bouquets by his admirers
S j at the close of the performance. Miss Linda Dietz has
)j for some time been acting with the best artists in
Sj London, namely, Mrs. Bancroft’s company, at the
Sj Prince of Wales’s Theatre, and at the Haymarket. In
) j the first, the press generally testified to her ability; at
\ j the latter theatre she had a thankless part and little to
) i do; it was that of a nonentity in society, whose parent
S j was constantly, with her approbation, trying to sell her
S j in marriage to the best social advantage, and ultimately
) j she was so confused by the varying selfish schemes of
c j her progenitor, that by the mistake of allying herself
S! to the wrong man, she made all the honest persons in
<jj Lord Lytton’s play happy ever afterwards. At the
(j present time, at Sadler’s Wells, Mrs. Bateman has
>j placed an American company on the boards, who in a
(j highly novel and sensational drama are trying to give
sj the British public an idea of wild life “ out West.”
m ^0
Ig B., Vancottveb’s Island.—You ask us to anathematise a par-
icj ticular medium for an exceptional circumstance. Years ago we
i \ j might have done so, but greater experience shows that it would
is! be quite as just to censure a mesmeric sensitive of a slightly
is! different order, because under the influence of his mesmerist, he
0 announces to a public audience that he believes himself to be an
j) eight-day clock. Mediums are mesmeric sensitives, who pass
) some of their time in dream-life. They are not the prophets of
J) a new dispensation, and the sooner the general public understand
I ( this the better.
240
THE 8PIEI TTJALIST.
May 14, 1880.
!t£gM£miSM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Bg the late Wsi.'GtuSGORY, P. R.S.E., Professor qf Chemstry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Gkace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism..
Jest pubMeked, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
OOHTEHTS.
OH AFTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—it Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Oohscioushess
—Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER IIControl Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage-
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar' Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV s—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes —
Vision of Near Object s through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V 8—LUcid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, Ac., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—^Prediction of Accident?
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovisibn and Prevision—^Peculiarities of Speech and of
ConsciOusneS? in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI s—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Wdking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsehd—Sakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s
ExtatiCS—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIIIPhreno-Mesnlerism—^Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—Tne Lower Animals Susceptible ot Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX 8—Action of Magnets, Crystals, Ac., on Hie Human Frame—*
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, dr with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—Physiological, Therapeutical, Ac.—
Treatment or Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, Ac., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X 8—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Qdyle) universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle-—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—^Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XT s—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII s—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Oases—MagieMirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER Xm s—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep-
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of tbe Subject—‘Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phtend-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep-
Cases—-Perception of Time—Cases i Sir i. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XTV s—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—^Travelling Clairvoyance-
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV s—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontsneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI •—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 88, Muse urn-street, London*
Information for non-spieitualist^.
IN thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the rUps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums Without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his owtt
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. E. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO POEM SPIEIT OIECLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into tbe phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own hotaes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untnie by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
phenomena iu all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
j be unable to bear out the iiiaposture theory as the foundation of
i the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Eeaders should
protect themselves against any impostCfC who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
I which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know-
| ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
| new Circle in three, formed according to the following instruc-
| tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall he no interrup¬
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of font, five, or sifc individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
tb allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
8. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against theln is weakefiing.
4. Before the mauifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should he of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably he table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let ofae person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” onevneans “No,” and two mean
“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If I ;speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message P ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of otheif forms Of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop j the better class ot
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. Alter the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances because
no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
A medium is usually ah impulsive individual, very sehsitive to
mesmeric influences. .
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
May 14, 1880,
THE S P IE 11 U A L I S T,
Cloth, small 8vo, price 8s,
OTHEE-WORLD 0 E DEE i
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there isplace and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women ; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse _ or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains ah
original position. If asked whethet he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of sinners, he answers Yes 5 but
if asked Whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers. Wo. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise front
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish!
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and eVer
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pncisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrQng-doing. Ih
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is surd
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners,
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
g^ALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
3_ in Spiritualism, by Christian Keimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edgesi
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.j
Author of 3[ill and Carlyle, iforal Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday "Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
OESEARCHES IN THE PHENO-
JLt MENA OF SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st., W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id. j Post free
for l$d; or six copies post free for 6d,  '
K_APHAEL’S PROPHETIC mes¬
senger and ephemeris for 1880, Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
‘‘Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12. Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa-
TIONOF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply%o the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, daily. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ S. O.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
de la Pepiniere, Paris.
rFHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
JL oldest j ournal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
Writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary departinent,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &o. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.O
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists, A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon),*’
and is one of the most refined and elegant works evet
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration. _
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Hichmond,
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef, By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Hattis
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the tranbe-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given throUgh the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Bichmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by ChaHes
Dickens. How the writings were produced; The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treheme) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie DpteU.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, find
other Animals. By Emile,.Prince of Wittgenstein.
XFV.—To Yon who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat;
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace;” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lo4b.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Afina Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the medimnship of
?! M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev, C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent. ,
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of‘‘M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice "Worthington
(Ennesf alien),
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Colder.
XLI.—Dirge. - By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey,
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties Of the Clergy ii
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette MakdoitgaV
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace.
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey;
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 88
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,_
Corresponding member of the Medical Academic
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin an
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerisn
and Therapeutics^” awarded by the Milan Society foi
tiie Promotion 01 Science, Arts and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, S3,
Museum-street, London, W,0.
Price 5s, 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I,
I.—The Prayer of the Sofroiring—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VIE
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—Xt. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV- Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVlII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
TIE VUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
JLV psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Soeiete Anonyms, 5, Rue Neuye de
Petits Champs, Paris, Post-Office orders payable t
Leymarie,
Just Published. Price 5s; 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I:—The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter it:—Modem Thought verses Modern Facts
. Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V:—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration ahd Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered;
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modem Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author oh receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. Trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
POR DISTRIBUTION AT PtRLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circle
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to “ drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will Spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated tc
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con
sequently irreligious age.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 14, 1880,
Accidental Indigestion
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
USE
ENO S FRUITSALT
Price Five Shillings, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
EY WILLIAM H. HAKRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose "Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly redommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a bottle of
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS; PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OE
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes." Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health¬
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression,“.Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Dr. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve sufMring
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
World,”
CTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ AH our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Woos Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT!! 1 Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de &*■ ffaix, Paris.—A Gentleman. called in
yesterday. SEe is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall nevCr be without it
in the house.”—M. Beral.
Part X.~Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song oi
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief ot the College of Howling Der¬
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the Market Gardener. —11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12. Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. ‘‘Poor
Old Joe 1 ”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30. The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says;—“Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity^ . , . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of "White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal. .
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
‘‘Those who oan appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Buy of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay. of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is tho Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
ESTABLISHED 1851.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for "its ‘ Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane. 
T UNAOY LAW REFORM
JU ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from2 30 to 4 pm. Saturdays 1 to 2.
Louisa Lowe, Hon. Sec.
rpHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
X. OR THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d,
post free 6£d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33. Museum-street, London, W.C. - :
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously "Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
‘‘As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter; We
wiH only say that his descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
END’S FRUIT SALT.— “After suf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
Success in life.”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employea in
an original channel, could not fall to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adaub.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and see the capsule is
marked "ENO’S FEUIT SALT.” Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatebam, London, S.E.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, "W.O.
Price fid.; post free 7$d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
fTHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
-L SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays ty Anna Blackwell and Mr,
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
MIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper-, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal." Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street i J,
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any port of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal j
Order.) Sample eopies free.
CONTENTS.
Original Research in Spiritualism      229
The Physiology and Philosophy of Mediumship.
By JohnE. Purdon, M.B    230
The Function of Muscle       231
Muscular Science       232
Dr. S. Haughton’s Experiments     232
Human Intellect necessary for the Display of
Intelligent Manifestations     233
Mediumship considered in Relation to.the Moral
Sense   i   233
The Influence of Will upon the Muscular System 234
The Relation of Dream-Life to Materialised
at.Seances I i.    233
Spiritualism. By the Hon. Percy Wyndham,
M.P.        237
ParagraphsA German Professor Nonplussed 230
Death of an Austrian Medium 230
A Prophetic Dream   239
Theatrical       '239
Psychography   :     239
Correspondence :—Mr. Serjeant Cox       239
.  Astrology       239
Printed for the Proprietor by. Arliss Andrews, at
' the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-Street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. Wt
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C,
