Registered as a Newspaper.
(Mtost wmwrkb' tott| m feat intm
No. 367. (YoL. XY.—No. 10.) LONDON; FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1879. Published Weekly ; Price Twopence.
SANITAS, the Health Giver;
Or, the Pine Forest at Some.
SANITAS IS SOLD IN FLUID, POWDER AND SOAPS.
SANITAS FLUID, Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d. in Bottles. By the Gallon at 20s., and 5s. It is the best fluid disinfectant, preventative of
contagion, and preservative of Meat, Fish, &c. Applied to the Bath, it improves the health by purifying the tissues and pores of the
skin, giving natural beauty and colour to the complexion.
SANITAS TOILET POWDER in Is. Boxes is far superior to any of the so-called Yiolet Powdebs ; it is perfectly free from all
mineral and poisonous ingredients; improves the complexion, and softens the skin.
SANITAS TOILET SOAP is a beautiful transparent soap, containing a large percentage of Sanitas. It effectually softens and
improves the skin, and gives natural health and colour to the complexion.
SANITAS HOUSEHOLD SOAPS, sold in 6d. and 4d. Bars, is excellently suited for cleaning and disinfection, whitens and
purifies linen goods.
TOILET SANITAS FLUID, in Is., and 2s. 6d. Bottles, is a beautifully perfumed Fluid, having all the properties of the ordinary
Sanitas in a more agreeable and fragrant form. Specially adapted as a mouth wash, and for spraying rooms, use in finger glasses, &c.
SANITAS DISINFECTING POWDER.
SANITAS TOOTH POWDER, and the several productions of the Company, to be had at the
fSrviiit ;«.s C'oinpiiiiy'fi -A-genoy,
4, MILDMAY GROVE, HIGHBURY, LONDON, N,
CAUTION,—All Articles bear the Company's Trade Mark and Seal, without which none are genuine.
Chemists and the Trade Supplied.
Now Beady.
The THIRD EDITION of Vol, I. of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
lEOHAnSI OF IAE.
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Vol. II., completing the work, and treating of “ The Mechanism in Action,’
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LI&HTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Book to Spiritualists,
JAMES IALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Eer Majest/s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qnality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. 5, ISYO.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish: Square, London, JF,
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAYEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT - IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spintvalist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering-—Conscience : its Place and Function
—Religion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism—The Philosophy of Inspiration and
Revelation—Christianity : its Place and Human Elements.
London: Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s, 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
'The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
DR. NICHOLS’ FOOD OF HEALTH.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &c.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Chemists, Grocers, &c.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-provM facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals With the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the Work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.’
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday, evenings from S o'clock for reception of
friends.
N.B.—Mr, Williams’s temporary address during
alterations in the above premises is 13, Milman-street,
W.O. (corner of new Ormond-street).
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON
(At home every day except Sunday),
Will lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour -
street, every Sunday night.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY. .
D. YOUNGER,
1G4, EUSTON ROAD, LONDON, opposite St. Panoras
Ohnrch (Monday and Thursday from two till six).
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient. Any
form of mediumsbip developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions,
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
l, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
MRS. LOUIE M. LOWE, 23, Upper
Baker street, London. At home from two till
five o’clock dally, except Sundays.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 178
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to S p.m
90, Great Rnssell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
■\rOTICE of REMOVAL TO 31,
AM NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W. MRS.
PARKER has arranged for seances on Tuesday and
Friday afternoons, at four o’clock precisely. At home
for private sittings and mesmeric treatment; de¬
velopment for clairvoyance and other forms of
mediumship, from one to five o’clock daily; and eight
to ten, evenings of Mondays and Thursdays.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Magnetised by the Breath. Fee 2s. Gd.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIR VOYANTE and HEALING MEDIUM
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair ; sex and
age required. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism,
Specialities. At home from 12 till 5 p.m. Patients
treated at their homes when desired. 99, Park-street.
Grosvenor-square, London, W.
Folkestone.—Comfortable Lodg¬
ings on moderate terms. References to Spirit¬
ualists can be given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-
terrace, Folkestone.
& of to xil to Sctooe awd HSt^ics af SphtoaUsm.
No. 367,—Vojlujwe fifteen; Number TE]^,
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 5th, 1879.
‘‘THE SPIRITUALISTM Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United Kingdom, and
within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
33, British Museum-street, London,
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names in connection
with their Literary Oontributions to The Spiritualist
His Imperial Highness Nicholas of
Bussia, Duke of Leuchtenberg.
The Lord Lindsay.
The Bight Hon. the Countess of Caith¬
ness.
The Baroness Von Vay (Austria).
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Naples.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, St.
Petersburg.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Capt. B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S. (Disco¬
verer of Lake Tanganyika).
Alfred Bussel Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.
C. 0, Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psy¬
chological Society of Great Britain.
Alexander Calder, Esq., President of
the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President of the
Theosophical Society of New York.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne).
Captain John James.
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. C. Hall.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., New York.
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D., Edin¬
burgh.
Bobert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.,
author of Unorthodox London.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.B.I.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Miss Kislingbury.
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B., India.
William White, Esq., author of The Life
of Swedenborg.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein
(Wiesbaden).
Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Hol¬
stein)
The Count de Bullet.
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of
Portugal.
M. Adelberth de Bourbon, First Lieu¬
tenant of the Dutch Guard to H M.
the King of the Netherlands.
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon Favre), Con¬
sul-General of France at Trieste.
William Crookes, Esq., F.B.S., editor
of The Quarterly Journal of Science.
C. F. Varley, Esq., C.E., F.B.S..
Miss Florence Marryat.
St. George W. Stock, Esq., M.A.
(Oxon).
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D,
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., J.P.
Dr. George Wyld.
W. Lindesay Biohardson, Esq., M.D.,
Melbourne.
J. C. Luxmore, Esq, J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq., Doc. Sci., Lec¬
turer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst. C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq., M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.M (Can-
tab).
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers.
William Newton, Esq., F.E.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., author of
Letters to Miss Martineau.
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising circulation in all the English-speaking
Countries on the Globe. It is regularly on sale at 33, British Museum-street,
London; 5, Bue Neuve des Petits Champs,Palais Boyal,Paris; 2,Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor Bocca,
Librario, Via del Corso, Borne; British Beading Booms, 267, Biviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples; 37, Bue Florimont, Liege; Josefstaadt
Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse, Buda-Pesth; 84, Bussell-street-South, Mel¬
bourne Messrs. Kelly and Co„ Shanghai; 51, East Twelfth street, New York ;
Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgoinery-plaoe, Boston, U.S.; Religio-Philosophical
Journal Office, Chicago; 319, Kearney-street, San Francisco ; 325, North Ninth-
street, Philadelphia; No. 1010, Seventh-street, Washington,
Advertising terms on application.
rpHE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
JL extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America,
employed clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision events connected with the
early history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus saw the Mas¬
todon and other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they
likewise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets,
and they gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegeta •
tion of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by
the sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review
of this book in “The Spiritualist " was to the effect that there is no doubt
as to the integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to
select clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability
of the narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever
interplanetary communication should be established, it will be by means of
clairvoyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers
in man. Three vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
/
\
(
S
j
(
||
<
<;
(
<
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION.
(From our Special Correspondent.)
Sheffield, Friday.
The 1879 proceedings of the British Association
for the Advancement of Science came to a close here
last night. As Captain Douglas Galton, one of the
secretaries, remarked, the British Association is like
a chrysalis for fifty-one weeks of the year, and de¬
velops into a large and complex organism during the
remaining week.
THE PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.—THE HYPOTHESIS OF
“SPONTANEOUS GENERATION” UNTENABLE.
The President, Dr. G. J. Allman, in his opening
address, made several remarks of an antagonistic
nature to the theory of materialism; he also made
known some curious facts in relation to the lowest
forms of animal and vegetable life. He stated that
in no case had an instance been known of dead
matter spontaneously generating into a living organ¬
ism, but evidence proved that all living things came
from previously living organisms. He said :—
“From the facts which have been now brought to
your notice there is but one legitimate conclusion—
that life is a property of protoplasm. In this asser¬
tion there is nothing that need startle us. The
essential phenomena of living beings are not so
widely separated from the phenomena of lifeless
matter as to render it impossible to recognise an
analogy between them : for even irritability, the one
grand character of all living beings, is not more
difficult to be conceived of as a property of matter
than the physical phenomena of radial energy.
“It is quite true that between lifeless and living
matter there is a vast difference—a difference greater
far than any which can be found between the most
diverse manifestations of lifeless matter. Though
the refined synthesis of modern chemistry may have
succeeded in forming a few principles which until
lately had been deemed the proper product of vitality,
the fact still remains that no one has ever yet built
up one particle of living matter out of lifeless
elements—that every living creature, from the
simplest dweller on the confines of organisation up to
the highest and most complex organism, has its
origin in pre-existent living matter—that the pro¬
toplasm of to-day is but the continuation of the pro¬
toplasm of other ages, handed down to us through
periods of indefinable and indeterminable time.
“ Yet with all this, vast as the differences may be,
there is nothing which precludes a comparison of the
properties of living matter with those of lifeless.
“When, however, we say that life is a property of
protoplasm, we assert as much as we are justified in
doing. Here we stand upon the boundary between
life in its proper conception, as a group of phe-
110
THE SPIRITUALIST. Sept. 5, 1879.
nomena having irritability as their common bond, and
that other and higher group of phenomena, which we
designate as consciousness or thought, and which,
however intimately connected with those of life, are
yet essentially distinct from them.
* ‘ When the heart of a recently-killed frog is sepa¬
rated from its body and touched with the point of a
needle, it begins to beat under the excitation of the
stimulus, and we believe ourselves justified in refer¬
ring the contraction of the cardiac fibres to the irri¬
tability of their protoplasm as its proper cause. We
see in it a remarkable phenomenon, but one, never¬
theless, in which we can see unmistakable analogies
with phenomena purely physical. There is no greater
difficulty in conceiving of contractility as a property
of protoplasm than there is in conceiving of attrac¬
tion as a property of the magnet.
ct W'hen a thought passes through the mind it is
associated, as we have now abundant reason for
believing, with some change in the protoplasm of the
cerebral cells. Are we, therefore, justified in regard¬
ing thought as a property of the protoplasm of these
cells, in the sense in which we regard muscular con¬
traction as a property of the protoplasm of muscle ?
or is it really a property residing in something far
different, but which may yet need for its manifesta¬
tion the activity of cerebral protoplasm ?
“ If we could see any analogy between thought and
any one of the admitted phenomena of matter, we
should be bound to accept the first of these conclu¬
sions as the simplest, and as affording a hypothesis
most in accordance with the comprehensiveness of
natural laws ; but'between thought and the physical
phenomena of matter there is not only no analogy,
but there is no conceivable analogy, and the obvious
and continuous path which we have hitherto followed
up in our reasonings from the phenomena of lifeless
matter through those of living matter here comes
suddenly to an end. The chasm between unconscious
life and thought is deep and impassable, and no
transitional phenomena can be found by which as by
a bridge we may span it over ; for even from irrita¬
bility, to which, on a superficial view, consciousness
may seem related, it is as absolutely distinct as it is
from any of the ordinary phenomena of matter.
“It has been argued that because physiological
activity must be a property of every living cell,
psychical activity must be equally so, and the language
of the metaphysician has been carried into biology,
and the ‘ cell soul ’ spoken of as a conception
inseparable from that of life.
“ That psychical phenomena however, characterised
as they essentially are by consciousness, are not
necessarily coextensive with those of life, there
cannot be a doubt. How far back in the scale of
life consciousness may exist we have as yet no means
of determining, nor is it necessary for our argument
that we should. Certain it is that many things, to
all appearance the result of volition, are capable of
being explained as absolutely unconscious acts; and
when the swimming swarm-spore of an alga avoids
collision, and by a reversal of the stroke of its cilia
backs‘frpm an obstacle lying in its course, there is
almost' qertainly in all this nothing but a purely
unconscious act. It is but a case in which we find
expressed the great law of the adaptation of living
beings to the conditions which surround them. The
II irritability of the protoplasm of the ciliated spore
HI responding to an external stimulus sets in motion a
j mechanism derived by inheritance from its ancestors,
m and whose parts are correlated to a common end—
j<j the preservation of the individual.
11 But even admitting that every living cell were a
! | conscious and thinking being, are we therefore jus-
jvj tified in asserting that its consciousness like its
I)! irritability is a property of the matter of which it is
m composed? The sole argument on which this vieAv
Kj is made to rest is that from analogy. It is argued
n.j that because the life phenomena, which are invariably
uj found in the cell, must be regarded as a property of
HI the cell, the phenomena of consciousness by which
! (| they are accompanied must be also so regarded. The
m weak point in the argument is the absence of all
§ analogy between the things compared, and as the
!>> conclusion rests solely on the argument from analogy,
|<| the two must fall to the ground together.
“ In a lecture* to which I once had the pleasure
K of listening—a lecture characterised no less by lucid
! j exposition than by the fascinating form in which its
l|| facts were presented to the hearers—Professor Huxley
jvj argues that no difference, however great, between the
m phenomena of living matter and those of the lifeless
Hj elements of which this matter is composed should
]<! militate against our attributing to protoplasm the
Hi phenomena of life as properties essentially inherent
K] in it; since we know that the result of a chemical-
|)j combination of physical elements may exhibit physical
|(| properties totally different from those of the elements
|>| combined; the physical phenomena presented by
k water, for example, having no resemblance to those of
| its combining elements, oxygen and hydrogen.
“ I believe that Professor Huxley intended to apply
(j this argument only to the phenomena of life in
(j the stricter sense of the word. As such it is con-
II. elusive. But if it be pushed further, and extended
m’ to the phenomena of consciousness, it loses all its
H| force. The analogy, perfectly valid in the former
ill case, here fails. The properties of the chemical com-
m pound are like those of its components, still physical
|(| properties. They come within the wide category of
Hj the universally accepted properties of matter, while
) | those of consciousness belong to a category absolutely
y distinct—one which presents not a trace of a con-
| nection with any of those which physicists have agreed
si in assigning to matter as its proper characteristics,
j! The argument thus breaks down, for its force
s depends on analogy alone, and here all analogy
) vanishes.
“That consciousness is never manifested except in
|| the presence of cerebral matter or of something like
sj it there cannot be a question ; but this is a very
11 different thing from its being a property of such
sj matter in the sense in which polarity is a property of
(j the magnet, or irritability of protoplasm. The
generation of the rays which lie invisible beyond the
violet in the spectrum of the sun cannot be regarded
sj as a property of the medium which by changing
|j their refrangibility can alone render them apparent,
sj “I know that there is a special charm in those
)l broad generalisations which would refer many very
(j different phenomena to a common source. But in
11 * “ The Physical Basis of Life.” See Essays and Reviews, by
T. H, Huxley.
Sept. 5. 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. Ill
this very charm there is undoubtedly a danger, and
we must be all the more careful lest it should exert
an influence in arresting the progress of truth, just
as at an earlier period traditional beliefs exerted an
authority from which the mind but slowly and with
difficulty succeeded in emancipating itself.
‘5 But have we, it may be asked, made in all this
one step forward towards an explanation of the
phenomena of consciousness or the discovery of its
source ? Assuredly not. The power of conceiving
of a substance different from that of matter is still
beyond the limits of human intelligence, and the
physical or objective conditions which are the con¬
comitants of thought are the only ones of which it is
possible to know anything, and the only ones whose
study is of value.
“We are not, however, on that account forced to
the conclusion that there is nothing in the universe
but matter and force. The simplest physical law is
absolutely inconceivable by the highest of the brutes,
and no one would be justified in assuming that man
had already attained the limit of his powers. What¬
ever may be that mysterious bond which connects
organisation with psychical endowments, the one
grand fact—a fact of inestimable importance—stands
out clear and freed from all obscurity and doubt,
that from the first dawn of intelligence there is with
every advance in organisation a corresponding advance
in mind. Mind as well as body is thus travelling
onwards through higher and still higher phases ; the
great law of Evolution is shaping the destiny of our
race ; and though now we may at most but indicate
some weak point in the generalisation which would
refer consciousness as well as life to a common
material source, who can say that in the far off
future there may not yet be evolved other and higher
faculties from which light may stream in upon the
darkness, and reveal to man the great mystery of
Thought ?”
MR. WILLIAM CROOKES ON THE BORDER LAND BETWEEN THE
KNOWN AND THE UNKNOWN.
Without doubt the chief feature of the 1879
meeting of the British Association was the evening
lecture delivered by Mr. W. Crookes on “Radiant
Matter.” The Albert Hall was crowded. The ex¬
periments were of an entirely novel description, and
of such a nature as could not have been anticipated
two or three years ago. The following were the
closing remarks of Mr. Crookes, and as he uttered
them a smile broke over the features of several per¬
sons in the audience, who saw more meaning in them
than the generality of the listeners could realise :—
“ In studying this fourth state of Matter w’e seem
at length to have within our grasp and obedient to
our control the little indivisible particles which with
good warrant are supposed to constitute the physical
basis of the universe. We have seen that in some of
its properties Radiant Matter is as material as this
table, whilst in other properties it almost assumes the
character of Radiant Energy. We have actually
touched the border land where Matter and Force
seem to merge into one another, the shadowy realm
between Known and Unknown which for me has
always had peculiar temptations. I venture to think
that the greatest scientific problems of the future will
find their solution in this border land, and even
Kj beyond; here, it seems to me, lie ultimate realities,
j)| subtle, far-reaching, wonderful.
KI “ Yet all these were, when no Man did them know,
Yet have from wisest Ages hidden beene ;
And later Times thinges more unknowne shall show.,
Why, then, should witlesse Man so much misweene.
That nothing is, but that which he hath seene ? ■
Mr. Crookes’s lecture was published in full in
i | The Engineer newspaper last week, accompanied by
|<j a large number of beautifully executed diagrams of
|)| the experiments.
PROFESSOR LANKESTER’s LECTURE.
j(j Professor E. Ray Lankester’s lecture on “ Degenera-
j) tion ” was the most thinly attended of all the evening
]<! meetings. It was heavy and wearisome, though
B probably sound from a zoologist’s point of view. It
m exhibited no symptoms of genius or of poetry, and
j)j the Sheffield Daily Telegraph of August 25th con-
Ijj tains the following paragraph about it:—
I (j People have different views about the British Association and
i|| its lectures. A local gentleman, who wears the order of the
I) | Local Committee on his noble breast, went to hear Professor E.
17 Ray Lankester on “Degeneration.” “How did you like it?”
jh he was asked. “Like it!” he repeated; “it was so awfully
| (| dry, and I felt myself so degenerated that I went to a friend’s,
|) j and drank off three glasses of beer before I felt restored to my
|) I normal condition of wetness.”
One of the secretaries, in seconding a vote of thanks
K j to Professor Lankester, explained that originally some-
o| body else had been invited to deliver the lecture for
jci that evening, but when he announced his inability to
|)l do so, Professor Lankester was asked, and was kind
K j enough to quickly come forward.
MR. RUSKIN’S WORK IN SHEFFIELD.
During my stay here I have made some inquiries
jsj about the actions in this neighbourhood of Mr. John
j/j Ruskin, who has established a Museum at Upper
jsi Walkley, near Sheffield. The Museum stands upon
j/ j the brow of a hill, on which clusters of small cottages
m are scattered about; the entrance to the establish-
j/j ment is through a doorway in a stone wall, and a
( pathway beneath some apple trees in a carefully-
ijj tended garden leads to a small cottage, which is used
j)j for the purposes of the Museum. From the entrance
j?j doorway is a magnificent view of the valley below,
j)j and the hills in the distance; there is a quietude
j and repose about the spot which, in our opinion, is,
m. therefore, much better fitted for quiet study than the
j(j centre of a noisy town. People who have no desire
!>j to learn, and who visit the place from curiosity, think
in that it is an exceedingly unpractical step to place the
\U Museum so far from the centre of Sheffield. The
Sn establishment of the Museum is but a portion of a
j wider scheme called “The St. George’s Guild,” formed
in to put in practice Mr. Ruskin’s principles of political
nj economy. Mr. Ruskin has peculiar ideas of his own,
ijj as strange as those of the Chinese philosopher, Pooh
j)j Pooh, who was charitably thought to be mad by his
j(i neighbours because he promulgated the doctrine that
))j his daughter ought to see her future husband before
j (i she was married to him, and furthermore that she
j)j should have some voice in the selection of her future
j (j partner; the heretical old man also believed that she
:i)j ought to have some sort of affection for him. The
j (j good Cantonese were as much horror-stricken by these
l)j doctrines as an English matchmaking mother would
^ be, and Pooh Pooh would undoubtedly have been
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 5, 1879.
bastinadoed and condemned to wear the wooden
collar in the public market-place, but for the general
conviction of his insanity. Mr. Ruskin is as bad as
Pooh Pooh. For instance, he lays down the follow¬
ing as his first and chief canon of political economy.
That it is the duty of every man to work for an
honest living.
Mr. Ruskin holds that the above is the first re¬
ligious duty of man, and urges that if his religion does
not teach him the above his religion is necessarily
rotten at its foundation.
His next point is:
That if what a man gets his living by doing is of
no real service to his fellow creatures, he is not
getting an honest living at all.
In such case Mr. Ruskin argues that he is simply
the means of getting money out of honest people’s
pockets into his own.
Every man, says the Teacher, should analyse for
himself how much of his time is employed in real
honest public service. Mr. Ruskin, who is a large
landowner, holds that those who get an income from
land, without rendering in work the full value of the
income to the public in return, either in the manage¬
ment or improvement of the land, or in some other
way, do not get their money honestly.
Mr. Ruskin applies the same principles to usury.
He argues that it is a bad and an immoral thing to
charge any interest for the loan of money. He does
not deny that the man who lends money on interest
does not often confer a service on the borrower, but
the principle at the root of the matter is that if it
costs a man nothing to do a fellow creature good he
ought not to expect to be paid for doing his duty.
In fact, any pious Heathen, much less a Christian,
would be glad of the opportunity to do good to
another, without loss to himself. Of course, a
generous man will go farther, and put himself to
self-sacrifice to aid another.
I do not as yet see the accuracy of Mr. Ruskin’s
ideas on this question of interest. Theoretically,
money is concentrated labour. A man who lives
honestly turns the produce of his labour into money;
when he chooses to expend the money he reconverts
it into labour, just as by the law and practice of the
conservation of energy heat may be converted into
mechanical power, and mechanical power into heat.
A savage by labour makes bows and arrows, which
remain in his possession as “ money,” or the results
of labour. He lends them, and the borrower partly
wears them out. Why should the borrower not pay
for the wear and tear? It may be argued that
money does not wear out. But it does, for the lender
takes risk, and sometimes makes bad debts over his
loans. Therefore the lending does cost him some¬
thing. Why should he not be paid for risking loss
of property ?
The aim of civilised society should be to take care
that money always represents an equivalent value of
honest work done. Gradually the moral sense of
society is changing, and it is to be hoped that in
time it will be considered that the only honourable
state of existence is one in which the individual
possesses no more wealth than he has earned by
honest work.
At the St. George’s Museum, Mr. Swan, the
| Curator, presented me with a pamphlet, from which
| I was surprised to learn how much attention the
I Fathers of the Church had given to this question of
| interest, as exemplified by the following extracts:—
St. Augustine on Psalm xxxvi. 26 says :—“ If you
II lend your money to a man from whom you expect
11 more than you gave—not money alone, but anything
H else, whether it be wheat, wine, oil, or any other
>1 article—if you expect to receive any more than you
I gave you are a usurer, and in that respect repre-
(j Sensible, not praiseworthy.”
St. Jerome on Ezekiel xviii. 410 says:—“Some
{| persons imagine that usury obtains only in money ;
)i but the Scriptures, foreseeing this, have exploded
j every increase, so that you cannot receive more than
)| you gave.”
St. Ambrose, on the book of Tobias, xiv. 390, says :
/1 —‘ ‘ Many persons evading the precepts of the law,
\l when they give money to merchants, require the
usury, not in money, but take some of their goods in
\j payment of the usury, therefore let them hear what
j saith the law : ‘You shall not,’ it says, ‘receive the
(j usury of food, nor of anything else ’ (Deut. xxii. 19).
)j The victuals is usury, the cloth is usury, whatever
(| is added to the principal is usury, whatever name you
')] give it it is usury.”
Basil the Great, on Psalm xv., says Ezekiel, in the
)| eighteenth chapter, classes usury, or receiving more
)i than the principal, with the greatest crimes.
The Catechism of the Romish Church defines that
\| “to receive any more than the sum lent is rapine—
) the counsel that we are expressly commanded by our
(I Lord not to expect any more than the sum lent : to
/j receive this increase is a sin against the seventh
commandment; to expect it is against the tenth. As
j the usurers, or interest men, both expect and receive
(| more than the capital, or sum lent, are they not
habitual violators of the express commands of God ?”
Mr. Ruskin’s great point is, that were his ideas
)| about rent and interest acted upon by everybody,
II the whole nation would be happier and better, and
)| many people prevented from leading idle lives. He
\j therefore formed the St. George’s Guild to put his
)i ideas into practice. The Guild is established to pur-
>1 chase, or to obtain by gift, as much land as possible;
(j the rent of the land and of the buildings upon it
) i are entirely devoted to the benefit of the people who
a are working upon the land; none of it goes to any
)| private person. The St. George’s Museum is one of
)j the public benefits kept up by the application of the
I rents. It has been established four years, and has
(] over sixty or seventy students, most of whom come
|| long distances. There are facilities in the Museum
<: for learning mineralogy, zoology, and botany;
)\ each object on view is selected to illustrate a special
{i step in each science; thus the learners are not con-
)| fused by a multiplicity of objects ; the few on view
(| are good, and some of them of great value. The
j| whole collection is contained in one small room. A
l few specimens of artistic work adorn the walls;
j more especially attractive is a copy of a portion of
(I the painting of St. George and the Dragon, in St.
)| Mark’s Cathedral, Yenice. There is a look of intense
u earnestness on the face of St. George; he seems to
j | be one who has a determined purpose in life, or, as a
tj Sheffield artisan said when he saw it, “ That fellow
means business.”
Sept. 5. 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 113
Mr. Ruskin strives to encourage natural talent, and
holds the idea that nobody who has a special aptitude
for any art study should have out of his reach the
very best types and forms to lead him on, For
instance, there was a young “ grinder ” in Sheffield,
of the name of Benjamin Oreswick, who found his
way to the Museum, attracted by the drawings and
paintings contained therein; he had a natural taste
for sculpture, and had been in the habit of cutting
heads and busts of his fellow workmen from pieces of
grindstones. After making use of the Museum for a
little time, he selected some photographs of Mr.
Ruskin, and tried from them to carve a bust of the
great Art critic. Mr. Ruskin saw that the result
displayed so much real genius that he invited him
to Coniston to cut a bust from life, and Mr. Creswick
succeeded better than anybody else who had pre¬
viously made an attempt upon the same subject.
He is now studying sculpture in Westmoreland, and
is, no doubt, destined to excel in the art.
As regards the work of St. George’s Guild, Mr.
Ruskin does not expect or desire much immediate
result; his first point is to supply each person on the
estates with as much land as he can profitably use.
He does not aim at any system of equality, but
that the best men shall be in the best position, and the
more a man improves the estate the more his rent is
reduced, because he supplies more food to the nation
than his neighbour, so is entitled to be better rewarded.
There is enough land in England to support the
population, if there were free trade in land, and the
people were not cut off from its possession by artificial
and unnatural laws, making them mere lodgers
in their native country. These laws keep Ireland in
an incessant state of disaffection and agitation, and
do infinite injury to the dwellers in the rest of the
United Kingdom. If land were to be bought and
sold freely, like other property, as in France and
other civilised countries, the benefit to the nation
would be incalculable. If the pale and sickly dwellers
in cities could begin to spread themselves over
the land, carrying with them an advanced culture,
education, and art-taste, and if they could dwell in
the midst of their own gardens, under their own
vines and fig trees, national health, morals, and hap¬
piness would follow the abolition of the legislation
which at present divorces the nation at large from its
own soil. Land is as necessary to life as air or sun¬
shine, and nobody dreams of making laws to keep
nearly all the air and sunshine of the United King¬
dom in the hands of a few hundred individuals.
There is a library in the St. George’s Museum,
containing a limited number of well-selected books.
Carlyle’s works are among those on the shelves.
TEST SEANCES WITH MR. MATTHEWS.
I have had some wonderful seances in Sheffield
with Mr. F. O. Matthews. Last Tuesday, for about
two hours, he continued to narrate to Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory and myself some fifteen or twenty of the
events connected with our past lives, and without a
single error. He gave names of persons, and places,
and the details of almost forgotten conversations
which had taken place in past years. • His powers
vary with the conditions. On some occasions only
portions of his tests were verified.
On Sunday last week, at one of Mrs. Makdougall
11 Gregory’s private seances at Blenheim House, he
j! gave many tests to the somewhat large company
| assembled. Here are a few of them given whilst he
\\ was in a state of trance :—
| I.
I see an intelligence at your side who gives the
<| name of John; he is a man of position and good
11 birth; you were drawn together by a feeling of love
n and tenderness ; he has passed over to the other side
)l and is with you now.—Recognised.
I
I see a lady near the, head of the sofa; she is a
j | relative of yours and gives her name as Elizabeth ;
\ | she comes with tender affection and love, and throws
j| over you the protection of a mother’s influence.—
\\ Recognised.
ill.
A man is present who gives his name as William ;
(| he looks real and substantial to us although he is a
jj spirit ; you have often wondered where the white-
(j winged angel men [call Death has conveyed him.
) | There is one with him who died of cancer on the
j i breast, and who was connected with his life-history.—f
> | A visitor present said, “It's my father and my wife.”
IV.
Turning to one of the sitters, Mr. Matthews said :
j I Have you not in your home a round deal table ? ”
u “Yes.”—“You get table-moving in all forms and
} fashions. James and William come to you there
\| sometimes; the communications are sometimes truth-
j! fill, and sometimes you are mystified.”—Recognised.
(| ';: : *■1 i!- 1» U l\l f)
j T . . . : ■ v‘
I see a spirit here who passed away from earth life
y in consequence of consumption: she has an intel-
) | lectual forehead, brown hair, straight nose, and is
j very pale. She was very dear to you—as dear as a
>| sister; no sister could be more kind or good. She
(| gives her name as Eleanor.—A lady present said
)j “ That is my cousin”
j VI.
Mr. Matthews turned to me, and said : !*■ You have
j! brought with you a very old friend, greyhaired,
(| somewhat tall, grey whiskers, straightish nose, cheeks
)j sunken, and cheek-bones prominent. He looks like
\| a doctor, and gives his name as Newbould. He is so
)| slightly tethered to the body that he looks like a
(] spirit who has quitted it. He is thinking of you.”
) | Can you describe the room in which he is sitting,
(j for I have never been in it, so a correct description
> j of it cannot come from my past thoughts ?
“ He is sitting in a little library-place ; there are
>| marble fittings to the fireplace; there are books, and
(| in one corner is some glass. A bust upon a pedestal
)! stands in one corner. I see a small globe. The
\j table is covered with a greenish, almost black, oil-
cloth, and the carpet is of a dark mixture of colours.”
\| Can you quote anything from papers on the
)j table or in his pocket ?
yi. “ No. He is now writing different extracts from
) | books ; he has a green and a dark red book; one is
{\ on Physiologjr, and the other on Electricity.”
)j I recognised Mr. Newbould and the description
)| of him. At the time of writing this, I do not know
H whether the description of the room is accurate, for
114
THE SPIRITUALIST. Sept. 5. 1879.
I have never been into it; but, no doubt, Mr. New- j
bould wilt 'publish whether the description is j
accurate. It was given at 9.35 p.m., Sunday,
August 2Hh, 1879.
YU.
I see a man named Albert near you, and he says : j
“ How about the jokes we used to crack, and how j
about the nuts?” He is holding two nuts in his j
hand, and he is a German.—Recognised.
“SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.”
(From “ The Literary World” Aug. 29£A.) j j j
The author of this volume* undertakes to do what j(|
philosophers and divines have never pretended to |)|
achieve. He deals with the subject of the existence | (j
of a spirit-world as no longer one to be proved by j) j
logic, or propped up by faith. With him it is simply j (!
a question of fact, to be established by evidence, j)j
which shall remove all doubt—“ as strong as any on j (j
which men are condemned to death by courts of j)|
law.” But, unfortunately for mankind, the evidence ! \ j
is not new, the witnesses to be examined are such as j) j
the world has been familiar with since time began. ||
For what age or country has been without its ghosts j) |
and apparitions ? Since Mr. Harrison comprehends j (j
the spiritual manifestations of modern seances in the |)
same class, the artificially worked spirits can bring no H j
further evidence for a life after death beyond what is j/j
supplied by such as have appeared spontaneously. jU
The present volume deals almost exclusively with l/l
the apparitions of the living and of the dying. A H
second volume is promised, which will treat of the j/i
phenomena of spirit-circles, in order to show that m
the appearance of spirits is not confined to the jn
moment of death, but that it may take place at any jjj
period after death. The argument of the book for a m
future life will be held to be strong or weak according j) j
as the reader estimates the evidence for the objec- Kj
tive reality of spirit manifestations recorded in jn
support of it. Whether the evidence is as strong j(|
“ as any on which men are condemned to death by j > |
courts of law” may be doubted. When a witness m
quoted the statement of a ghost in support of his j>j
facts the judge refused to admit it as evidence at all, j( j
unless the ghost were subpoenaed and appeared for j > j
examination. The evidence of spirits appearing to m
their friends after death, however well authenticated, i/j
is of too shadowy and dubious a kind to convince K j
mankind generally of a life after death, so as to j)j
remove all doubt where doubt exists. It may con- Kj
firm faith where it exists already, and even initiate j|l
it in the case of those who are satisfied that spirits Kj
have appeared. Other minds, however, will cling j)j
to the belief that such appearances are of subjective j(j
origin. If we take some of the cases narrated, in j)j
which the dying have appeared to their friends, when K j
separated by hundreds of miles, in the very clothes >
in which their bodies were clad, it will require j(j
stronger evidence than any which at present exists j/j
to convince ordinary mortals that the material gar- Kj
ments could have been in two places at the same I j j
time. This involves a palpable contradiction. Evi- Kj
* Spirits before Our Eyes. By William H. Harrison, Author of j) ]
The Lazy Lays. Yol. L London : W. H. Harrison, 38, Great | (j
Bussell-street. 1879. Price os. 6d,
dently, this is no stumbling-block to our author’s
faith. He accepts the fact, and proceeds to philoso¬
phise upon it, and arrives at this general conclusion
—“ that clothes, as well as forms, of dying persons
are sometimes duplicated and seen at distant places.”
Thus he makes no difficulty in swallowing the con¬
tradiction, that a thing can be here and there at the
same moment. But the argument proves too much ;
for when Cicero comes in answer to the call of the
expert, his appearance not only proves the existence
of his spirit, but of his togg, and fibula also. Closely
connected with this paradoxical conclusion is another,
which needs stronger evidence in its support before
it can be admitted as one of the proved facts of
science. Mr. Harrison distinguishes between two
distinct classes of apparitions—one in which spirits
make themselves visible “ by mesmeric impressions
to mesmeric sensitives; the other in which they appear
in temporally materialised bodies to the ordinary senses
of men. In this case the spirits do not form and dis¬
solve before the eyes of the observer; but they appear
and disappear by opening and closing doors and cur¬
tains. But the startling fact in such visitations,
according to Mr. Harrison, is, that whatever weight
these materialised appearances may possess is
abstracted from the weight of the dying bodies of
those who appear. It is difficult to prove or disprove
a statement like this. The apparition will not submit
to be weighed, and it is difficult to see how “ self¬
registering scales in hospitals, so that the variations
in the weight of patients may be indicated,” can be
constructed and applied. But, before making good
his ground thus far, telescope in hand, Mr. Harrison
begins to survey our territories to be won. He sees
in the future the possibility of establishing a new
system of telegraphy by means of spirit-messengers,
and of the conveyance of small articles—(why small f)
—by spirit-carriers from place to place. “ There are
strong indications,” he says, “ that by following up
this class of experiments, psychic telegraphy may be¬
come a valuable method of communication in the
future; also, that it is a rapid method, a few thousand
miles causing scarcely a minute’s delay in establishing
communication. There are also indications that let¬
ters, or small objects of light weight, may possibly
be carried by this method.”
The chief interest in the present work lies
in the number of cases collected and classi¬
fied. Many of the stories are well known; but
they are here arranged under several headings.
There are apparitions seen by one person only;
others witnessed by several persons at the same time.
Numerous instances are given of death intimations
in dreams, and of the appearance of spirits during
sleep or trance to their friends. We will quote one
of these stories, because it is not so well known, and
because it will serve to strengthen and illustrate
some of the observations we have made. The
narrative relates to Philip Weld, the youngest son of
Mr. James Weld, of Archer’s Lodge, near South¬
ampton, and a nephew of the late Cardinal Weld.
On the 16th April, 1846, Philip Weld was drowned in the
river at Ware. His dead body was brought back to the college,
and the Yery Rev. Dr. Cox, the president, was immensely
shocked and grieved. He was very fond of Philip; but what
was most dreadful to him was to have to break this sad news to
the boy’s parents. He scarcely knew what to do, whether to
Sept. 5, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
115
write by post or to send a messenger. At last he determined to !<]
go himself to Mr. Weld at Southampton. So he set off the Hi
same evening, and, passing through London, reached South- nj
ampton the next day, and drove from thence to Archer’s Lodge, j)!
Mr. Weld’s residence. On arriving there, and being shown into
his private study, Dr. Cox found Mr. Weld in tears. The
latter, rising from his seat, and taking the doctor by the hand,
said, “ My dear sir, you need not tell me what you are come for.
I know it already. Philip is dead. Yesterday I was walking
with my daughter Katherine on the turnpike road in
broad daylight, and Philip appeared to us both. He was
standing on the causeway with another young man in a
black robe by his side. My daughter was the first to perceive
him. She said to me, * Look there, papa! there is Philip ! ’ I
looked and saw him. I said to my daughter, ‘It is Philip,
indeed; but he has the look of an angel.’ Not suspecting that
he was dead, though greatly wondering that he was there, I
went towards him, with my daughter, to embrace him; but a
few yards being between us, while I was going up to him a
labouring man, who was walking on the same causeway, passed
between the apparition and the hedge, and, as he went on, I saw
him pass through their apparent bodies, as if they were trans¬
parent. On perceiving this, I at once felt sure that they were
spirits, and, going forward with my daughter to touch them,
Philip sweetly smiled on us, and then both he and his companion
vanished away.” A few weeks afterwards Mr. Weld was on a
visit to the neighbourhood of Stonyhurst, in Lancashire. After
hearing mass one morning in the chapel, he, while waiting for
his carriage, was shown into the guest room, where, walking up
to the fireplace, he saw a picture above the chimney-piece, which,
as it pleased God, represented a young man in a black robe, with
the very face, form, and attitude of the companion of Philip as he
saw him in the vision, and beneath the picture was inscribed,
“ St. Stanislaus Kostka,” one of the greatest saints of the Jesuit
order, and the one whom Philip had chosen for his patron saint
at his confirmation. His father, overpowered with emotion, fell
on his knees, shedding many tears, and thanking God for this
fresh proof of his son’s blessedness.
Many of the stories related are insufficiently
authenticated to be of any value for scientific purposes.
Indeed, this is a usual fault with books of this class.
We do not question the desire of the compilers of
them to be impartial. But the mind on a subject
like this—especially in its revolt from materialism—
is apt to be carried away by enthusiasm, and so to
impose upon itself. Patience and coolness of judg¬
ment are needed in the collecting and sifting of facts,
and to refrain from theorising requires self-restraint.
To work in the dark among facts, that others may
see hereafter, is a self-denying task. To reap the
fruits of knowledge is more pleasant than sowing the
seed. The time is not yet come—if it ever will in
this world—to reap the fruits of a scientific knowledge
of the spirit-world. The most that we can do is to
note the facts that are given, and wait patiently for
the rest. For this reason, while we hold the theories
cheap, we attach a certain degree of value to such
efforts as Mr. Harrison has made in this book to
make us acquainted with the facts.
{From “Public Opinion," Axuj. IQth.)
Spirits Before our Eyes. Yol 1. By W. H.
Harrison. (Harrison.) The distinction made by
the advancing progress of psychology, and which
divides idealists into the two opposing camps of
Spiritualists and Animists, is rapidly widening ; and
the publication of this work will enable the public
very fairly to judge what sort of facts exist on which
a large number of persons consider that they have
tangible proof of the existence of human life beyond
the grave. A Spiritualist (of whom Dr. B. W.
Richardson may be taken as an example) is one who
considers that the real substance of man’s body is not
bounded by the limits of his physical organism ; or,
in the words of Mr. Enmore Jones, that man passes
out of his body a living, intelligent substance. An
Animist, on the other hand (and Dr Edward Burnet
Tylor’s definition will serve) is one who believes that
certain dead persons communicate with certain living
persons, under certain conditions. The shades of
Animism vary from the gross superstitions of the
Shaman to the scientific evidence which this book
adduces in favour of a theory such evidence could not
prove. Mr. Harrison has, however, had an uphill
battle to fight, and has fought it well, though we are
suspicious whether there are enough intelligent
people in the ranks of avowed Animists, or, as they
call themselves, Spiritualists, to see that his argument
cuts both ways, and that the accent he lays on
a posteriori evidence would, if successful, overset the
grounds on which immortality has been considered
by Kant to be a necessary condition of human
existence. The author, in his employment of
scientific methods, has followed precisely the path
indicated by the physicist, and has placed that of
the metaphysician aside. The book deals with
the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of spon¬
taneous apparitions, and shows how to reproduce
experimentally some of the phenomena connected
with them. It will, therefore, serve as an admirably
convenient supplement or companion to H. P.
Blavatsky’s Isis Unveiled, and is not so irritating
to the European, as opposed to the Eastern mind.
In fact, the modesty and delicacy with which the
author brings forth a series of well-marshalled facts,
and carefully excludes all anonymous testimony, will
secure for his work a patient and deferential reading
from every one. Whether the evidence that the
forces which produce certain results are what they
say they are, or what the ardent ‘ ‘ ghostmonger ”
(the expression is that of Dr. K. R. H. Mackenzie,
F.S.A.—not our own) may say that they are, is
another question altogether, though we may say that
Mr. Harrison’s collection of facts will always be of
the highest interest, as it contains a number of
anecdotes not in Schaible’s Encyclopaedia of Hexen-
lehre. This work is of much promise, the more so
as we see that the second volume is in the press.
Whatever ideas we may have of the value of the facts
adduced, we must cordially admit that we have at
last in the English language a systematically arranged
collection, which will serve as an invaluable resort to
quote from. Mr. Harrison has told his story well
and precisely, and we shall look for the second
volume with interest.
(From “ The Publishers1 Circular,” July 1st.)
Spirits Before our Eyes. Yol. I. A most curious
collection of examples got together from every con¬
ceivable source, with the view of solving the problem
of the immortality of man, by evidence strong as
any on which men are condemned to death by courts
of law. Among the works quoted in support of his
views by Mr. Harrison are Lockhart’s Life of Walter
Scott, Moore’s Life of Byron, Lord Lindsay’s Report,
William Howitt on the Supernatural, an address by
Mr. Serjeant Cox, &c., &c. We may add that we
believe Walter Scott in his letters mentions the famous
Memoires de Philippe de Comines as containing a
ghost story. Gf the spelling of “Comines” or
i I
116
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 5, 1879.
f ‘ Commines *’ we are not sure, for there are two
towns so called, one of which has one name, and one
the other.
EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISMS
BY ALICE GORDON.
It is solely in the cause of truth that I venture to
lay before the public my experiences whilst investi¬
gating “ Spiritualism” in London. A desire to con¬
dense into the smallest possible space an account of
some of the phenomena witnessed during six months,
must excuse any brusqueness in the style; And first,
let me say, that no reader of this paper can be more
sceptical than I was. I shared to the full the popu¬
lar opinion on this matter, and had in fact ceased
to believe in, what is called, the supernatural of the
past. I must also admit I was as ignorant as the
public generally of the amount of evidence accumu¬
lated and accumulating on this subject, having merely
read an article by Mr. A. R. Wallace, published some
years ago in the Fortnightly. I had never known a
Spiritualist, for which I now congratulate myself, lest
I should have talked as I hear many talk. My atten¬
tion was one day last spring attracted to a placard,
announcing “Religious Services in connection with
Spiritualism,” which stood outside a hall at Netting
Hill. I went to one of these services; but of the
religious side I do not now purpose to write, though
it is the most interesting to earnest minds. My in¬
troduction, eventually, to a number of Spiritualists
arose through attending this service; but to save
space I must omit particulars. My curiosity being
aroused, I obtained the entre to some bi-weekly
seances (at these as at others the sitters form a circle
and hold hands), held in the rooms of a public
medium; and I own my astonishment knew no
bounds when I saw a number of apparently sane
and intelligent people believing that, what
seemed to me a Maskelyne and Cooke entertainment,
was the work of departed spirits. I heard musical
instruments flying about whilst playing ; I saw white-
robed forms appearing and disappearing, and heard
voices conversing with the sitters as with well-known
friends. All present were old Spiritualists, and I,
as a stranger, held my tongue as to what I thought;
but I was fully resolved to investigate, and, if I could,
expose such folly, or worse. I went to several of these
seances, and becoming acquainted with Spirit¬
ualists, attended many more at private houses, and at
length my senses and reason convinced me of the
truth of the astounding phenomena. In all the
houses musical instruments floated about, bells were
rung, lights were seen carried by hands, and forms,,
more or less shadowy, moved about and spoke. I
* This article has just been published in the Pioneer (Allaha¬
bad), about the best newspaper in India. Its editor says :—“ The
paper requires but little introduction. Its value for many
Indian readers will turn upon the fact that the authoress and
her husband, Lieutenant-Colonel W. Gordon, of the Bengal
Police, consent to the publication of their names in connection
with the events described ; where anonymous records of seances
would fail to influence public opinion, authenticated statements
may command more attention. The persons referred to by
initials are many of them well known to Anglo-Indian society,
and though in the absence of their specific permission Mrs.
Gordon does not feel free to give their names in full for
publication, these have been communicated in confidence to
ourselves,”
j know how impossible such wonders seem, and had I
j | not other evidence to give, I should say nothing;
| i but feeling that I could only speak with effect of
p manifestations under my own roof, and Colonel
yi Gordon having also become convinced, we arranged
for seances at home. The furniture was removed
j] from the back drawing-room, and it was effectually
}| darkened, as I wished to have the seance in the day-
yj time. A card-table and six light chairs were put for
)j use. I made notes, immediately after, of the chief
(j occurrences at each sitting, which I propose giving in
)j their crude state. The medium who came to some
si of the stances was one whom I had often met, and
i I therefore knew his “ familiars ” well.
July 6th, 1878, 3 o'clock p.m.—Sitters: General
A., Colonel L., Lieutenant-Colonel and Mrs. Gordon,
I and medium. Medium entered room with us ; was
< | never in it before. He sat between General A. and
j | Colonel L. ; we formed a circle round the table, and
<| joined hands, and then blew out the candle. A small
)| hand-bell and small musical box had been placed on
(j the table, and a few small ornaments on the mantel-
j shelf, which was about eight feet from medium.
) | After sitting a few minutes talking, I mentioned that
)\ I had put something on the mantelshelf, hoping they
if would be brought to the table, and immediately with
)j a clatter a Japanese box, containing two other small
(j ones, fell on the table. Then raps were heard, and
j| the table moved. Next the only piece of furniture
j in the room, a small chair, which was at the point
M furthest from the medium, was put quietly on the
<1 table. Then the (to us) well-known voice of a spirit,
i who gives the name of Peter Barry, spoke, and said
yi the “power” was not strong. General A., wishing to
)! get at the musical box, moved the chair, and he put
(j his arm through the opening at the back, and then
) j again took medium’s hand ; they having with joined
(j hands lifted the chair off the table, and placed it on
)j the floor between them. The chair was now held on
\j General A.’s arm, and in this position was pulled
j| vigorously from the opposite side to that where the
\ | medium sat. After this had continued a few moments
)i I asked the gentlemen to let the chair go, as I
s ] wanted something else done. The chair was then
)j dragged along the floor. The bell was taken up from
If the table and rung several times. I asked for the
(| bell to be taken up to the ceiling, but it was not done ;
|! and in answer to a rather reproachful remark of mine,
Peter said: “We’ve done our best,” and the usual
|| farewell, “Good-bye, God bless you,” was given.
)j After that we were told by raps, “we cannot do
II more,” and a promise to try and do better next time
/] was obtained, and I can here also say fulfilled.
11th July, 1878, 3 o’clock o/iferaoow.—Bitters :
(| General A., Miss D., Lieutenant-Colonel and Mrs.
ij Gordon. The same medium. Colonel G. and Miss
<1 D. sat next medium, and we formed circle and joined
) i hands. In a few minutes a cool air was felt passing
(j over our hands, and we heard something moved on
) I the table. Peter spoke, and said the room was nice
<| and dark. A small light, like a large fire-fly, now
I floated about the room and then came to the table,
i and the bell then floated about with the light
I attached, and rung loudly. We had since the former
if seance bought a large musical box, which was playing,
if and one of us remarked with regret that it played
Sept. 5. 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. 117
the “Dead March” much too fast. The next time
the air came round the box was opened, and the
air played slowly. General A. then asked that it
might be stopped; it was: that it should go on fast; it
did so: he then asked that three notes should be
played singly, and it was done. All this was done in¬
stantaneously, and in the dark, both hands of the
medium being held. It was our musical box. I thanked
our spirit friend, and then inquired for another spirit,
who often attends this medium ; and immediately his
voice was heard greeting us. I then asked Peter to
show himself; he said he would, and he appeared
close to me on the table. I saw the full face clearly.
He held, as they always do, a spirit light in his
hand, which he held up to his face. As Miss D.
could not see well from her position, I asked Peter to
show himself to her; she felt a hand tap her shoulder,
and looking round saw a form standing beside her. I
also distinctly saw dimly the whole form robed in
white, and the face clearly. Peter spoke several
times, and hummed the tune the box was play¬
ing. He then said he must go, as his medium
had another stance at night, and he must not use all
the power. He added—“You will now, Mrs. Gordon,
be able to say you have seen these things -in your
own house.” With a farewell and thanks to him we
broke up. I can imagine some readers throwing
down the paper in disgust at the credulity of some
people. But “ truth is stranger than fiction.”
IB/A July, afternoon.—Sitters : General A., Mrs.
P., Lieutenant-Colonel and Mrs. Gordon. A different
medium. We formed circle, Mrs. P. and General A.
next medium (who had never been in the room
before); we wound up musical box, joined hands, and
then the candle was blown out. We soon heard a
slight noise, and the large box being very noisy we
stopped it (not unjoining hands, which we always
hold during sitting), and wound up a very small
one. Immediately a drum accompaniment was
played on the top of the large box, and well played. A
spirit called “ Charley ” then talked freely and clearly.
A light now appepred, attached itself to the hand bell,
and waved with it about the room, ringing loudly.
A fan from the table was used vigorously. There was
another spirit present, as the sitters on both sides of
the table were touched at the same time. We all
many times felt hands touch us on our hands and
heads. The small musical box was waved about
while playing, and we were touched gently with it on
the cheek ; it was put to our ears in succession, and
held there a moment playing. The large box was
then started, and was carried round and round the
room, and the ceiling knocked with it. This box is
very heavy; it is as much as a moderately strong per¬
son can do to lift it; it was alarming to hear it
floating about over our heads, “ Charley ” showed
himself on the table, his face on a level with ours.
We all saw him very clearly; he had light eyes and
a short, grisly-looking, brown beard. The medium
had dark eyes, and only a moustache. He was in a
deep trance all the time, and his hands held ; and on
one side by a lady, who had, until now, declared the
phenomena must be imposture. Two of us were asked
to get up, and our chairs were then lifted over our
heads on to the table. The medium was now
awakened by the spirit, and we were wished good-bye,
)| and told to light up, which we always contrive to do
(| without unlinking hands, having matches and candle
j! on the table.
j PROOFS OF A SOUL.
j BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S.
In Professor Blackie’s recent work, The Natural
\j History of Atheism, he does me the honour to quote
>! largely from my Letters to Miss Martineau, though
(| long out of print, and published so far back as 1851.
>| He ought rather to have referred to my long letter to
\| Harriet Martineau, which she thought proper to
)| insert in her Autobiography, headed “ What Man
\| Gan Know,” which Kant proclaimed to be the great
)j question of philosophy, the nature of knowledge, and
j how to be obtained. However, in referring to Pro-
?! fessor Tyndall, Professor Blackie says :—“The con-
j eluding lines, indeed, from Wordsworth, which the
?{ learned gentleman has italicised, are distinctly
\! Pantheistic:
“ A motion and a spirit that impels
\ j All thinking things, all objects of all thought,
) I And rolls through all things; ”
) | and might have added—and rules throughout, and is
u the source of all power, which was Bacon’s theory,
jj and accepted by Newton.
But one does not see how it implies Pantheism, or
) i the personality of nature in the god Pan, or conscious
(I directing intelligence ; for without consciousness it
• would not be personal, but automatic, and the rule
(| of law—as we suppose in the case of the spider
> weaving its web so like a consciously contrived device
(| to a foreseen end. But as the creature is without
experience that could hardly be, and such instincts
?| may be termed “unconscious clairvoyance.”
In the June number of Mr. Hands’ work, New
?| Views of Matter, Life, Motion, and Resistance,
>! p. 7, there is as follows :—“During the above-named
?j year (1845) it was my fortunate destiny to
)| meet with a case of clairvoyance, which natural
?! phenomenon became developed through my own
j| manipulations (mesmeric), and at a first sitting. I
?| would here remark that this most extraordinary
),! ability burst unexpectedly upon my senses, and in an
?! instant swept away all distrust as to the being of a
)| soul, or of its future existence ; and this after I had
?! professed scepticism, as regards these subjects, for
j! many years. Now, why clairvoyance should be the
?! proof of a soul and of its future existence any more
| than the blind instinct of the spider, is what I have
?! never heard advanced before. If Mr. Hands is justified
| in his conclusion, spiritism would hardly be regarded
? as of so much importance as before, and Mr. Harrison
) I might well devote his great abilities to some more profit-
? able labour. I find, then, the same absence of philo-
) j sophical and logical acumen in Mr. Hands as with Pro-
?| fessor Blackie and Mr. Serjeant Cox, whose argument
)| for the existence of a soul, because of the change of
? I the substance of the body whilst the sense of identity
remains, I exposed in this journal not long since, and
?! to which there was no reply. I hold that there can
y| be no absolute proof of a soul but in its actual dis-
| embodied presence, with clear evidence of identity;
1 and then considering the nature of the subject and the
? I existence of clairvoyance, the difficulty of identifying
118
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Sept. 5, 1879.
an apparition with absolute certainty is very great, and
those who have considered all the facts in respect to
haunted houses, and all the rest of the strange state¬
ments and doings, must allow. We cannot be too
wary and circumspect, and should look more to
psychology, physiology, and the facts of mesmerism
as essential preliminary matters : merely heaping
wonder upon wonder in any case will not explain
laws or advance science.
Mr. St. George Mivart, a Homan Catholic, Presi¬
dent of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion, supposes “some unheard of essence infused in
the organism of every living thing, determinant of its
actions,” to which the writer of the Times1 article
says cui bono f Does such a theory serve any useful
purpose in science as the supposed ether filling space
and permeating all bodies, as the medium of light and
heat does—for light and heat seem, as it were, to
travel in each other’s embrace from the sun into all
surrounding space; but the wonder is in the mind
itself projecting, as it were, its sensible light to all
the space without, and with the intuition of the sense
of distance.
Boulogue-sur-Mer, France.
NIGHT-WALKERS IN BRITTANY.
In Brittany there is scarcely a rock, a fountain, a
wood, or a cave, to which some tale of wonder or
dread is not attached ; every operation of nature the
Bretons ascribe to miraculous interposition; and
they people the air, the earth, and the waters with
supernatural agents of all sorts. Miss Plumptre, in
her pleasant book, mentions several of these spirits
who “ fly by night.”
Jean gant y Tan, “ John and his fire,” is a demon
who goes about in the night with a candle upon each
finger, which he constantly twirls round very fast—
to what purpose, save that of frightening honest
people whose track he may cross, does not appear.
The Buguel-Nos is a beneficent spirit of gigantic
stature, who wears a long white cloak, and is only
to be seen between midnight and two in the morning.
He defends the people against the devil by wrapping
his cloak round them; and while they are thus pro¬
tected they hear the infernal chariot whirling past,
with a frightful noise, the charioteer making hideous
cries and bowlings : it may be traced in the air for
a long time after by the trail of lurid light which it
leaves behind it. It is a pity that the night-world
should only have two hours’ service of this benignant
demon, even though he may now and then baulk the
devil of his due.
Another, but utterly purposeless wanderer of the
night, apparently not thought of consequence enough
to be christened, is a spectre in white carrying a
lantern; he appears at first as a mere child, but as
you look at him he waxes in stature every moment,
until he becomes of gigantic size, and then, having
done his worst, he vanishes. This spirit, however,
never even ventures to show his ineffectual bulk to
persons who carry a lantern.
The Cariguel Ancou, or “ Chariot of Death,” is a
terrible apparition, covered with a white sheet, and
driven by skeletons ; and the noise of the wheels is
always heard in the street passing the door of a house
where any person is dying. There are a set of
ghostly washerwomen, called Ar cannerez nos, or
“ nocturnal singers,” who wash their linen always by
night, singing old songs and tales all the time.
They solicit the help of passers-by to wring out the
linen. If this help be given awkwardly they break
the helper’s arm; if it be refused, they pull the
cautious or churlish passenger into the stream and
drown him.
In the district of Carhaix there is a mountain
called St. Michael, whither it is believed all demons
cast out from the bodies of men are banished. If
any one sets his foot by night within the circle they
inhabit he begins to run, and will never be able to
cease all the rest of the night; nobody, therefore,
visits this mountain after dark.
A demon, or spirit of some kind, called the
Teusarpouliet, often presents himself to the people
under the form of a cow, a dog, a cat, or some other
domestic animal; and he will sometimes, in his
assumed form, do all the work of the house—like
the Scotch “ brownie.”—Diprose's Superstitious
Omens.
A PEW QUESTIONS.
Sir,—In Major Carpenter’s interesting account of a test
seance held with. Mr. Haxby as medium, on the 7th August,
it was observed that during the time the manifestations were
occurring in the stance-room “ Joey ” repeatedly answered
questions through his medium, who at the time was handcuffed
and tied on abed at the further end of the adjoining room. Can
any of your readers inform me whether it be possible for a
ventriloquist—in one room and in the dark—to deceive the
sitters, by making his voice sound as if proceeding from a distant
part of another room ?
Is it not remarkable that so many mediums, in addition to
their alleged wonderful powers of conjuring, should also be gifted
with that of “ ventriloquism ?” Is it a fact that ventriloquism is
so common, that the majority of physical mediums are capable of
producing by its means what is called “ the direct voice ?” And
further, can any one tell me whether a female ventriloquist may
not, at least, be regarded as a rara avis ? J. James.
129, Gower-street.  
CURIOSITIES IN JAPANESE TEMPLES.
Sir,—Some of your readers who have not chanced to have seen
the books to which I refer, may like to have their attention
drawn to the fact that in the inner sanctuary of the Japanese
temples Mr. Stevenson found burnished mirrors and the myste¬
rious Gohei paper, both, he says, of Shinto origin. And Mrs.
Brassey, in her account of Japan, tells of the looking glass and
crystals found in the Shinto temples; adding, “ The looking
glass is intended to remind believers that the Supreme Being can
see their innermost thoughts as clearly as they can perceive their
own reflection, while the crystal ball is an emblem of purity.”—
Voyage of the Sunbeam, page 330.
This exoteric reason for tueir use she accepts with apparent
ignorance of the magical properties of crystals and some mirrors.
Again, page 312, she says, when describing the inner shrine,
or holy of holies in the Shinto temples: “It generally contains,
not an image, but a tablet, or what the Japanese call a Gohei, or
piece of paper cut so that it hangs down in folds on either
side.” . . . “These Goheis are so common in Japan, and occupy
so important a place in all their temples, that I had a great
desire to know what they originally meant, but, as on many
questions of this kind, could get no information; the only sugges¬
tion that presented itself to me was that it might be some
form of the book, for the book was a very precious thing in
past time.”
To those who have read Psychography; ort Spirit Writing, it
Sept. 5. 1879. THE SPIRIT HALIST. 119
will readily occur that such papers may be placed in the temples !
to receive written communications from spirits—a meaning that |
the presiding priests would be very unlikely to explain.
A. J. Penny.
The Cottage, Cullompton,
HARVEY’S LIFE SAVED BY A DREAM.
In Aubrey’s Miscellanies a story is told of a re- m
markable escape from death of William Harvey, the I (I
discoverer of the circulation of the blood :—
“When Doctor Harvey, one of the Physicians’ |j|
College in London, being a young man (in 1597), j)j
went to travel towards Padua, he went to Dover with 11
several others, and showed his pass, as the rest did, |) j
to the governor there. The governor told him that jj
he must not go, but he must keep him prisoner. j)j
The doctor desired to know ‘for what reason? how m
he had transgressed?’ ‘Well, it was his will to j j
have it so,* The pacquet-boat hoisted sail in the m
evening, which was very clear, and the doctor’s com- !<l
panions in it. There ensued a terrible storm, and j>|
the pacquet-boat and all the passengers were Kj
drowned. The next day the sad news was brought K|
to Dover. The doctor was unknown to the governor l)
both by name and face ; but the night before the |)
governor had a perfect vision, in a dream, of Doctor j)
Harvey, who came to pass over to Calais, and that (
he had a warning to stop him. This the governor 1/
told the doctor the next day. The doctor was a pious, \)
good man, and has several times directed this story to d.
some of my acquaintance.”
Last Saturday Mrs. Makdougall Gregory left Sheffield for y]
Scotland. j: j
“ Where shall peace be found for the miud P Not in the exalted I \ j
fortune, not in pleasure ; if these are long continued they weary j) |
us; and satiety is succeeded by surfeit. In the palace of the i)
great we wish for retirement; from the distractions of society we j/j
need repose. It is wisdom alone that can attach us to it the ] (j
more, the more our progress in it advances.”
Approaching Marriage op Miss Slade.—A letter from a j^j
correspondent received by the last Australian mail says “Miss m
Agnes Slade is about to be married to Mr. E. C. Haviland, of |)|
Sydney. He leaves for America by next mail to bring her back j;j
as Mrs. Haviland.”
The speakers who will occupy the platform of the Glasgow i (j
Association of Spiritualists, 164, Trongate, during the month of |\i
September, are Messrs. Coates, Robertson, Duguid, Porter, and |>i
Walker. Mr. and Mrs. Robertson conduct the Children’s Lyceum j)|
every Sunday afternoon, at 2 p.m. Mr. Coates is now secretary
to the Association; communications will reach him addressed j(]
65, Jamaica-street, Glasgow.
Mr. Walker’s Mediumship.—Mr. Thomas Walker, a trance |)|
medium, who has done much work for Spiritualism in Australia, j)j
has arrived in England. Mr. Terry, of Melbourne, writes to j/j
us:—“Mr. Thomas Walker leaves here for London in a few |\{
days, per Aconcaqua ; he is very popular both in Melbourne and 1)1
Sydney, and his trance lectures have attracted considerable m
attention. It is not his intention to lecture again for some time, l)i
but I presume he will speak in London before returning here.” Kj
All along the crippling of the National Association of j)j
Spiritualists by its managers might have been avoided by their ! (I
placing the affairs of the Association in the hands of its membjrs, nj
and inviting them to elect their own representatives, in the shape |)l
of a large Council not exceeding twenty members in all. If the j) I
ordinary members had had any power in the past of choosing j /1
their representatives the measures would never have been !(|
enacted which alienated from the Association Mr. Martin Smith, Ki
Mr. C. C. Massey, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. Charles i)j
Blackburn, Mr, load, Mr. Harrison, and many others,
SECOND SIGHT.
Mr. J. W. Beilby, of Bangholme, Merdialloc, Australia
states in The Harbinger of Light, Melbourne;—
In 1849 I was on a certain night sleeping at an inn in the
Portland district (being there mustering stray cattle to deliver,
with my station sold, when intending to return to Scotland).
I dreamt I was, with other members of my family, at my father’s
death-bed in Edinburgh. Everything said and done was vividly
represented, but I wondered that my father was not in his usual
bedroom. Several months afterwards news of my father’s death,
on that very night, reached me, but it was not until a sister
arrived in the colony, later, that every minutiae of particular was
corroborated, and I learned the reason for his occupying the bed
I saw him die in, in his dressing-room.
Some years later a Government surveyor, while in my house
near Dandenong, mentioned that he and others had taken a
window to see the execution of bushrangers, then under sentence
in Melbourne. I told him I thought it an inhuman taste he was
about to gratify, and that I could not look on such a sight;
adding, that some time before I had dreamt I was an eye¬
witness of an execution. Where the place was I could not
understand, for there was a wide area of rising ground, with
grass on it, between me and a high wall, upon top of which
was the scaffold; but one very remarkable incident in the clear
vision had struck me, and that was that one of the culprits made
a mocking bow to the spectators. I thought no more of the
dream, or the execution of the men, who were escaped convicts.
But some days later I had stayed all night at South Yarra, and
drove thence to Emerald Hill about half-past seven a.m., being
engaged to breakfast with (Hon.) James Service, M.P., at eight.
Emerald Hill was then an embryo village. The houses were few
and far between, and after inquiring here and there, and not
finding the house, I turned my horses’ heads for town, intending
to leave my vehicle for repair at Rolleston’s coach factory
in Swanston and Yictoria streets. When nearing the factory
I observed many people hastening the same way, and
I asked the foreman of the factory what was up. He
said, “ Don’t you know there’s an execution this morning ?
See, the men have just come up.” Looking the way
he pointed, I saw the exact vision of my dream of several
nights before, and one of the convicts made a low bow to the
spectators. The locality was the top of the gaol walk, and
the long open grassy slope between me and it was the space
afterwards used for the warders’ cottages. Now, in this case,
I had tried all I could to find Mr. Service’s house. Had I
found it, I should have been at breakfast with him during the
execution, but I had that part of my path in life to traverse
irrevocably, as depicted in night-vision to me, and I was fated
to do so.
Mr. Martheze has arrived at Sydney, New South Wales.
He found the tropical climate of Java to be exceedingly trying
to his health.
Moral Dietetics.—Dr. Bock, of Leipsic, writes as follows
on the moral effect of different articles of food and drink:—“ The
nervousness and peevishness of our times are chiefly attributable
to tea and coffee; the digestive organs of confirmed coffee-
drinkers are in a state of chronic derangement, which reacts on
the brain, producing fretful and lachrymose moods. Fine ladies
addicted to strong coffee have a characteristic temper, which I
might describe as a mania for acting the persecuted saint. Cho¬
colate is neutral in its psjchic effects, and is really the most
harmless of our fashionable drinks. The snappish, petulant
humour of the Chinese can certainly be ascribed to their immo¬
derate fondness for tea. Beer is brutalising, wine impassions,
whisky infuriates, but eventually unmans. Alcoholic drinks
combined with a flesh and fat diet totally subjugate the moral
man, unless their influence be counteracted by violent exercise.
But with sedentary habits they produce those unhealthy flesh-
sponges which may be studied in metropolitan bachelor-halls,
but better yet in wealthy convents. The soul that may still
linger in a fat Austrian abbot is functional to his body only as
salt is to pork—in preventing imminent putrefaction,”—British
Medical Journal,
120 THE SPIK
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
oa
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late ‘Wir, Gre&oky, M.D., F.E.S.B., Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size,
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.'
CONTENTS.
CHAPTEE I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTEB II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction Towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without the Eyes—
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies; at a Distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, &c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI: — Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Impostors—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmevism—^Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—-There are Oases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame—
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
-L Useful Applications of Mesmerism — Physiological, Therapeutical, &c. —
Treatment of Insanity, Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism, and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State—
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance. Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration^—Major Buckley's Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Franklin Major Buckley's Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—^Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis—Cases — Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British Museum-street, London
TUALIST. Sept. 5, 1879.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
\ i In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
s j civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou-
) ] sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out-
) i lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail-
) I ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
(j The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
( j Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
(I investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non-
} | professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
)! true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
)j were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
) | presence of mediums without being touched.
(! Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
(| Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
(i thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
(j house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
) j Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
) | professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
; j Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
(j forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
\! stranger to the family present.
)! The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men of
> j science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
> I untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
(j private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
(| by any member of the family. At the present time there are
(| only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical phe-
\ j nomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
5 j tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
/1 be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of the
) I great movement of modem Spiritualism. Readers should pro-
) j tect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
/1 the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
< j which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
(I duped who trust in worthless authorities.
(j One or more persons possessing medial powers without know-
) i ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
) | new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc-
) I tions, obtains the phenomena:—
/1 1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup-
(| tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
(I 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
(! the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
) \ to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
) I wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
) | top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
/ i little importance. Any table will do.
(I 3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
< | but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
(j 4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
\ j general conversation or in singing, audit is best that neither
) | should be of a frivolous nature.
) j 5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
)j feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
/ \ indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
(j 6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
(j: to avoid confusion let one person only speak ; he should talk to
\ 1 the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
) i three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
) | “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
) i If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak the
/ i letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
(| to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
(I three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
(| from this time an intelligent system of communication is
) I established.
)! 7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
) I trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
) | messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits,
(j usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
l i the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
(j to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
\ i or the contents of messages than they are forced to do by
) j undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two stances
) ] because no medium chances to be present, try again with other
< | sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensi-
(j tive to mesmeric influences.
(; Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
) i not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
) | week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
)i stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Sept. 5, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
British national associa¬
tion OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &o., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9,30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
■6 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman Road, Brixton.
The object of the Society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well-known mediums, and are entitled to the use of
books on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Host. Sec.
Mrs. WELDON’S WEDNESDAY
RECITALS. Mrs. Weldon gives an Evening's
entertainment weekly, at Tavistock House, her re¬
sidence (formerly Charles Dickens’). The programme
is varied by a short Lecture, sacred and romantic;
serious and nursery songs by Gounod, Urich, and Mrs.
Weldon. Tickets to be had on application free. A
collection is made for Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage,
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White's contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting •punishment of sinners, he answers Yes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter¬
nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; and precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition, enlarged.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE
COMPARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from
Spiritualism with the idea that it is unchristian and
unscriptural, It shows (we think successfully) that
every form of mediumship, now so familiar to Spirit¬
ualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of identical
experiences. Also
HEAVEN OPENED.
Parts 1 and 2, Gd. each. The two bound in one, Is.
These books, consisting of messages given by-
writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth,
and their group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and
sorrowing parents.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, WO.
mHE BANNER OF LIGHT : the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston, Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, <fec., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
IBs. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C. 
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
This second edition is, for its quality and size, the
cheapest large work ever published in this country in
connection with Spiritualism. Price 5s., or 6s. 6d.
post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, WLondon,. C,
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ 0! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VIL—An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C.
Stone.
. XXf.—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVH.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A,, Oxon."
XXIX. —A Sdance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D,
XXX. —“ My Saint." By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon."
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow's Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Beme; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child's Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
HP H E TRAPPED MEDIUM;
JL OR, THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Chr'stian Reimers.—This brochure, con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y.Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Prp-.oplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says
that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price Gd.;
post free, 6£d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Brandi
Office, 83, Britfsh Museum-street, London, W,C.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE of IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SARGENT
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billing—Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr.
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances?—Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S.
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Ross-Churoh, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Bane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A, A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and
Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Medium-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Chaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—^Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments,
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Revelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant — Strauss—Leon Case—
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Reflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O,
Price 5s, Gd,
Inspirational Poetry,
“POEMS EEOM THE INNER LIEE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given,
CONTENTS,
PART I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom —XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live ”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words of
Cheer— XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vula—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
T)EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anongme, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris, Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie,
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 5, 1879.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
ther standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—8. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The
Poetry of Science.— 7. How Hadji al Shaeabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji al Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—16. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbel-hewegung.—18. “ Poor Old Joe!”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes."
—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw,
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. —29. The July Bug.— 30. The Converted
Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past j consequently
any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a genuine
vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who are not too
stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on
the contrary, some of his poems touch on the deepest
and most sacred feelings of our common humanity.
. . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his ad¬
ventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is
quite one of the funniest things that has been pub¬
lished for years. . . . The book contains quite
enough to ensure it a welcome from which its tasteful
appearance will not detract.” The Morning Post says
of The Wobblejaw Ballads “ No one can help laughing
at them,’’ and it says that the rhymes are pitched in
“ something like the same key as The Bon Gaultier
Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably suc¬
cessful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published, and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street). Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, w.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYEIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. These poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7|d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The probable effects of
SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second
Gold Medals oe the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE ALPHA; or, the First Principle
of tbe Human Mind; a Revelation, but no
Mystery. With Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait
Of the Author, E. N. Dennys. 370 pages, price 3s. 6d.
‘We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellows.”
—Athenseum.
“ It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and
logic than any work we have ever read; it is a new
revelation, and one of the most remarkable productions
ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also, just published, with engraving of the Author,
470 pages, price 3s. 6d.
FT1HE RELIGION OF LIFE, as exemp-
JL lifled by Jesus Christ. A series of Lectures by
the Author of “Alpha.”
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
facts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
in an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per
volume.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
T) ESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA
-Lti OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate, by means of self-recording and other
instruments, the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s, The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, British Museum-street, London,
W.C.
“ T E JOURNAL DU MAGNETISMS,”
1 J published every week under the editorship of
Mons. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The ''Poughkeepsie Seer.
The Physician. Vol. L Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
II.
III.
IV.
V.
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the
People 7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-life 3 6
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . ,36
Harbinger of Health   7 6
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . .76
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
THE BIRKBEOK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of tha
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane. 
ESTABLISHED 1851,
A LADY SPIRITUALIST AND
MEDIUM is forming a circle for inquirers,
every Monday and Thursday evening, at eight o’clock.
She wishes to engage a genuine materialisation
medium for once a week.—Kindly communicate to
A., 2, Scarsdale-villas, Kensington.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet 3 Rue de
la Cossonerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
lYTEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
i-Y-L VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C. Price Id.; Post free
for IJd.; or six copies post free for 6d.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at sdances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Now ready, 48 pp. Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS FOE AUGUST, 1879.
The Spiritual Pilgrim. Part II; by“M. A." (Oxon)—
Some Thoughts concerning the Mystical Death; by A.
M. Howitt Watts—Sermons by a Seer ; by J. W. F.—
Materialism in Religious Circles ; by J. T. Markley—
A Pioneer of Modem Spiritualism—The Popular Faith
and the Claims of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Reve¬
lation ; by John S. Farmer—The Religion of the
Future—Notes and Gleanings: Brief Mentions; Dr.
Talmage on the Future Life; A Sign of the Times;
Honour when Honour is Due; A Curious Legend;
Healing Mediumship ; Dr. Coienso ; The Rev. Joseph
Cook on the Spiritual Body; Spiritualism in Australia
The Hopeless Sadness of; Materialism — Spiritual
Lyrics: The Dual Mystery; by T. S.
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
IND AND MATTER.—A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penna,
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J. M.
Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscription
to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in advance
Twelve Shillings. (Send Inter-national Postal Order,)
Sample copies free.
Price 5s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office 88, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. 
CONTENTS.
The British Association:—The Presidential Ad¬
dress—The Hypothesis of “ Spontaneous Gene¬
ration” Untenable—Mr. William Crookes on
the Border Land between the Known and the
Unknown—Professor Lankester’s Lecture—
Mr. Ruskin’s Work in Sheffield—Test Seances
with Mr. Matthews     109
“ Spirits before our Eyes”   114
Experiences in Spiritualism. By Alice Gordon ... 116
Proofs of a Soul. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S. 117
Night Walkers in Brittany  ns
Correspondence:—A Few Questions—Curiosities
in Japanese Temples     118
Harvey's Life Saved by a Dream  119
Second Sight    119
Paragraphs:—Approaching Marriage of Miss
Slade, 119; Mr. Walker's Mediumship, 119;
Moral Dietetics     119
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood's Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by W. H. Harrison, 33, British Museum
street London W,0
