tii
Begistered as a Newspaper.
SK® ^^YdSo^oG^idS^ $di5}X£®<-
^trnrt^ fmtjr S^intitalism m feat Jritam.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON: 33, British Museum-street. PARIS: 5, Rue Neuve des Petits
Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Paris!, Via Della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca, Librario,
Via del Corso., NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly
and Co. NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “ Banner of Light ” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “Religio-
Philosophical Journal ” Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Keamey-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North'Ninth-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
NO. 858.—(VOL.XV.—No. 1.) LONDON : FRIDAY, JULY 4, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
THE HOLBOM HESTATJMIT, 218, HIGH HOLBOM.
One ol tlie Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the quiet and order essential to English Customs.
DINNERS AND LUNCHES FROM DAILY BILL OF FARE.
A Table d’Hote, at Separate Tables, every Evening in the Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the
Duke’s Salon,
G to 8.309 3®. Gd.„
Including Two Soups, Two kinds of Fish, Two Entries, Joints, Sweets, Cheese (in variety), Salad, &c,,
with Ices and Dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of high-class Instrumental Music.
Now Ready.
T7ie THIRD EDITION of Vol. I of MR. SERJEANT COX'S
lECHAIISI OE. MAX
Price 10s. 6d.
It describes the Mechanism—Body—Mind—Soul. Vol. II., completing the work, and treating of “ The Mechanism in Action,”
may be had, price 12s. 6d. The work complete in two large volumes, price 22s. 6d.
JjQNGrMAN and Co., Paternoster-row.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pmfe, Fragrant, and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine) that
PEAES’ TEAISPAMT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by PEARS, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
JAMES MALTBT,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Eer Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Qxiality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent., for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 4, 1879.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street* Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—MR. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the promotion of psychological science
in all its branches. Its object is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communications as to alleged phenomena
are invited by the Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary, Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEO (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand,
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND* HELL (1863). From the. Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. TruBner And Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT- IDENTITY.
By “ M.A. (Oxon.).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : its Place and Function
—Religion and Dogma—Psychism and Spiritualism—The Philosophy of Inspiration and
Revelation—Christianity : its Place and Human Elements.
London : Trubner And Co., 57 and 69, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years’ experience in Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
DR. NICHOLS’ FOOD OF HEALTH.
As Porridge, Blancmange, Puddings, &c.
One Meal a Day will give Health to Thousands
Who are now suffering from Dyspepsia, Constipation, and their attendant maladies.
Eightpence per pound packet.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
N.B.—Mr. Williams’s temporary address during
alterations in the above premises is 13, Milman-street,
W.C. (corner of new Ormond-street).
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
RECEIVES DAILY AT
22, GORDON STREET, GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON,
Close to Oower-street Station.
Lectures every Sunday evening at Steinway Hall,
Lower Seymour-street, at 7" o’clock precisely. Ad¬
mission Free.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is
prepared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,.
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health being restored,
simply by the influence imparted through the hand.
The influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous- or feeble patient. I do
not confine myself to specialities, but treat all diseases
without medicine whatever. Private circles attended
for developing any form of mediumship; and mes¬
merism or healing taught at patients’ own residence, or
by appointment in Bloomsbury-square. Address all
letters,
D. YOUNGER,
1, Sandy Hill, Woolwich.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and children healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Day
and hours of business — Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
\J DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
Blank Paper Magnetised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
DR. NICHOLS’ SANITARY SOAP.
Purest soap made. Sold by Cbemists, Grocers, &c.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21,
Trafalgar-street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
Just Published.
TEE FIBST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity.
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of Spontaneous Appari¬
tions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some of the phenomena connected with
them. The connection between Spontaneous Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism
and Spirit Circles is also made clear.
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work is almost
entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the trustworthiness of the
anonymous narrator.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper, and handsomely bound in half-calf, 8s. 6d.,
post free. Cloth edition, 5s. 6d., post free.
The Sjiiritualist Newspaper Branch Office* 33, British Museum-street, London, W.C.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
OLAIRVOYANTE and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair ; sex and
age required. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism,
Specialities. At home from 12 till 5 p.m. Patients
treated at their homes when desired. 99, Park-street,
Grosvenor-square, London, W.
Folkestone.—Comfortable Lodg¬
ings on moderate terms. References'to Spirit¬
ualists can be given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-
terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, hoard and all included, £3 per week each; or,
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de
la Cossonerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be
obtained in Brighton of {Messrs. Beal, East-street;
Mr. Elmer, St. James’-street; and Mr. Boughton, St.
George’s-road.
S'JpifliP to to Stowes mtl HSttoDS w Sjw^timUsttt*
No. 358,—Voj-UjviE Fifteen;, Number Ojse,
LOlSTDOlSr, FRIDAY, JUDY 4tli, 1879.
A TRANCE CASE AT THE LONDON HOSPITAL. | |
A correspondent writes to us “ The enclosed is j(f
from last week’s Court Journal. I am sure that any of Kj
our mediums could take in hand and understand this j)i
poor, helpless girl. I myself brought round a person j>;
who could not have heard a cannon fired off close to him, K j
and he has never had an epileptic fit since, although that m
was ten years ago.” j)j
The statement in the Court Journal is :—“ The sight i(j
to which all the world is anxious to obtain admittance m
is that of the girl now lying in a trance at the London j(i
Hospital. This case, which puzzles the doctors and sets i) j
medicine altogether at defiance, has occupied the whole rrj
of the medical authorities for the last few weeks. The j\j
patient lies still and motionless upon the bed. She !)j
eats nothing, neither does she drink, her lips being Kj
hermetically closed. Her eyes are close shut, but when j>j
the lids are raised the brightness of the pupil is j (I
almost dazzling. The intelligence, too, with which the j) i
eye seems to Took at you, as if inquiring the reason |)j
of this strange visitation—perplexed and terrified, but K j
neither dim nor vague—is mysterious in the extreme, j) j
The pulse meanwhile beats with formidable power, Kj
although no symptom of breathing is visible. As the m
doctors acknowledge their own incompetency to decide j/j
upon a case of this kind, they are compelled to leave it in j( j
the hands of nature—their own great master, to whose j)j
will they are compelled to bow for a solution of the K j
terrible enigmas which now and then set their science at j>j
nought. The symptoms described by the nurse to the j) j
visitors who, by permission of the authorities, are allowed j \ j
to see the poor girl, are weird and terrible as a nightmare, j) i
The patient had already been in the hospital for abjout a |(j
week, when the ward in which she slept was aroused by ijj
her frantic cries for help. The agony with whic]\;she iu
had been suddenly seized in every limb was so intense |(j
that she felt sure she must be dying. Before the doctor j;j
could be summoned, she rose in the bed, uttered one long K j
piercing scream, and fell suddenly backwards with ex- jjj
tended arms stiff and motionless, as she has ever since K j
remained. Every means known to science has been em- j j j
ployed to restore her to consciousness, but without avail, j/j
Galvanism, electricity, burning, have all proved useless, j (|
and the doctors are fain to own themselves beaten.” !>j
Instances of the power of mesmerism over nervous (j
complaints teem in the history of that subject, so >j
whether this be regarded simply as a case of nervous < j
disease, or whether.the sufferings of the patient are due (j
to obsession, the will-power and the healing influence j/j
of a strong and experienced mesmerist are likely to do j (j
more good than all the drugs of the physicians. The jjj
healing power of mesmerism seems to act upon those I / j
forces which lie behind the nervous system and the j j j
action of the nerve centres, and goes down to the very j/j
roots of causes influencing man’s life in the body. In j(j
surgical cases it is of use only in producing insensibility jjj
to pain while an operation is in course of performance, ■;< j
as set forth in another column, but in nervous diseases, Iu
and in cases of trance and ecstasy, it is probably with¬
out a compeer for its remedial powers. Medical prac¬
titioners live so closely beneath the drill of a stern and
old-established system of organisation, that probably
most of them dare not try mesmerism in this case, even
if they should acquire a strong desire so to do. They
are not free agents.
A MODERN COMMINATION.
I HATE insignificant and impotent people. They annoy
me. They have scorched up my blood and shattered
my nerves. I know nothing more irritating than these
brutes, who waddle on their two feet, like geese, with
their round eyes and their open mouth. I can’t take
two steps, in life without meeting three idiots, and this
makes me miserable. The road is full of them ; the
crowd is made of asses, who stop you on your way to
drivel their mediocrity in your face. They walk, they
talk, and their whole person, gesture, and voice frets me
so much that, like Stendhal, I prefer a knave to a fool. I
want to know what we are to do with these people;
here they are on our hands, in these times of strife and
of forced marches. On leaving the old world we hurry
towards a new world. They hang about our arms, they
run between our legs, with their silly laughter, their
absurd opinions: they make our path slippery and diffi¬
cult. We bestir ourselves in vain; they crowd upon us,
smother us, fasten on to us. What! we are here in this
age when railroads and telegraphs carry us away, body
and soul, to the infinite and the absolute ; in this serious
and restless age, when the human spirit is travailing
with a new truth, and there are men of naught and
blockheads who deny the present, wallowing in the nau¬
seating puddle of their everyday existence. The horizon
widens, the light rises and fills the heavens; but they bury
themselves at their ease in the tepid mud where their di¬
gestion proceeds with a voluptuous slowness; they shut
their owl’s eyes, which are injured by the brightness; they
howl out that we .disturb them, and that they can no
longer enjoy their mornings comfortably, chewing the
fodder which they grind with their mouths full at the
rack of the common stupidity. Let us have madmen;
we can do something with them. Madmen think; each
has some strained idea which has broken the spring of
his intellect; they are sick of mind and heart, poor souls
full of life and power. I like to listen to them, for I
always expect to see some supreme truth shining in the
confusion of their thoughts. But, for God’s sake, let the
fools and mediocrities, the impotent and the idiotic, be
killed; let us have laws to rid ourselves of these people
who take advantage of their own blindness to say that
it is night. It is time that men of courage and energy
had their ’98; the insolent royalty of the mediocrities
has tj disgusted the world; the mediocrities should be
thrown in a body on to the Place de Gr6ve.
I hate them.
—Translated from Emily Zola, “ Mes Haines.”.
2
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 4, 1879.
SPIRITUALISM AND MORALS. j(
There is no way by which Spiritualists can so effec- (
tively commend and recommend Spiritualism as by faith- >
fully living it out in thought, word, and deed. Having /
learned to look with impatience, not to say scorn, on \
professions of faith as exemplified in the creeds, they are )
surely not to be content with merely professing faith in (
Spiritualism themselves. If they indeed believe in it j;
they will make it manifest in the whole tenor of their l(
lives and conversation. Merely to have become con- ||
vinced of the momentous truth of spirit communion is of j)
no practical use; it must be accompanied by daily evi- j\
dence of the influence of such a conviction. When the j)
heavens are opened, it is the Spirit that descends; and | (
the Spirit will inevitably show where it has made its j)
descent by the great change in the lives which it freshly j)
and powerfully inspires. Faith in the great facts of \\
Spiritualism is something more than a subscribing and |)
consenting faith in the theories and systems called creeds, u
which engage only the intellectual faculties. Spiritualism j j
is a belief that takes deep hold of the whole nature of the |)
one convicted, mastering it so as to show that the entire | \
individual life has been changed. j)
It is for so conprehensive a reason as this that |
Spiritualism includes in its care the cause of both pri- j >
vate and public morality. No man or woman can K
indulge in habitually lax courses, whether of life or j>
thought, and still be a genuine Spiritualist. No true |)
believer in Spiritualism can wag a slanderous tongue K
against his neighbour, or pursue the ways of infidelity, j;
or hold the marriage relation lightly, or strive to employ j)
his profession of faith for selfish advantage, or, in fact, |(
do anything that the world — so called—approves j/
against the condemnation of individual conscience. If K
there is anything whatever in this new revelation which j)
is named Spiritualism, there is everything in it. It is K
something to fill the life with an entirely new purpose j >
and meaning. It works with a regenerating force in K
every [part of the being. It bids us put away evil n
thoughts, which bear fruit in evil deeds, and become j)
pure and simple, innocent and holy in the sight of all. K
Only as it affects the life itself is it in any genuine sense i)
Spiritualism. Men and women cannot believe in it, and u
still lead immoral lives. It must make them more \(
religious than ever. It can only publish itself by the |)
work which it performs on the character. !(
Too much talking and wrangling and striving for j)
leadership and mastery have conspired to keep the vital I
fact in Spiritualism more or less concealed, by thrusting |\
it in the background. It is time that the matter be j)
better understood. The rest is but husks when the full | \
corn of the life is thrown away. What matters it j)
whether this or that thing be done in the name of |(
Spiritualism if its real meaning has evaporated or never- |)
been apprehended 1 Who is going to be persuaded into K
abetter belief—one coming through knowledge—if he n
sees the effect only in increased indifference to morality, j)
in a greater laxity of life, and in a course of action which j (
practically ignores what the angels continually tell us is j)
sacred ? If there is to be no better fruit than this borne
pf Spiritualism, it is fated to pass into forgetfulness |\
sooner than Old Theology with its merciless superstitious j)
grip on the human spirit. The organisation for which K
Spiritualism is now waiting with such eagerness is the i)
organisation of pure and exalted influences in outward | (
and visible lives ; of love and gentleness and charity in ! j
the intercourse of individuals; and of a belief in the |)
constant presence of angels, in the words and deeds by |\
which we all best proclaim our inward belief.—Banner 0/ !/
Light. " : ■ v\ . K
WHAT TRUTH IS THERE IN ASTROLOGY?
Ail our hopes of any improvement in the present generally
dull condition of things are dashed to the ground after the
perusal of a little pamphlet “Professor Grimmer” has been
good enough to send us from the other side of the Atlantic.
This gentleman, after devoting serious study to the rules of
Placidas de Titus, whoever that individual may have been, has
come to the conclusion that astrology is a true science; that he
is its latest prophet; and that it is his mission to make our flesh
creep. It appears that the perihelia of the four great planets,
Jupiter, Uranus, Neptune, and Saturn, will be coincident in
1880. Three of these planets being “ malifics,” and Jupiter,
although a “benific,,, apparently sulky for the moment, or
unable to follow the naturally amiable dictates of a good disposi¬
tion, the consequences to the unfortunate inhabitants of the
earth will be dreadful. “From 1880 to 1887 will be one
universal carnival of death.” Asia will be depopulated, Europe
nearly so, America will lose fifteen million people. Besides
plague, we are to have storms and tidal waves, mountains are to
“ toss their heads through the choicest valleys,” navigators will
be lost by thousands owing to the “ capricious deflexures of the
magnetic needle,” and islands will appear and disappear in mid
ocean with the celerity of a clown in a pantomime. All the
beasts, birds, and fishes will be diseased; famine and civil strife
will destroy most of the few human beings left alive by plague;
and, finally, “two years of fire”—from 1885 to 1887—will rage
with fury in every part of the globe. In 1887 the “ Star of
Bethlehem” will “ reappear in Cassiopia’s Chair,” the immediate
results being universal war and portentous floods and ship¬
wrecks. North America is again to be involved in civil war,
unless a “ Napoleon arises to quell it; but during these terrible
days the Pacific States will be a veritable Paradise of
Peace compared to the hellish strife that will be waging
throughout the world.” The few people that may manage
to survive till 1887 have, however, reason to be thankful.
Purified by fire, the earth will yield twice as much as formerly,
and the average duration of human life will be sixty-six years
instead of thirty-three years as at present, the reason being “the
healthy electricity or magnetism that will surround the globe.”
Very few, however, are the lines Professor Grimmer can devote
to the good tidings of what is to come after 1887. His con¬
genial mission is to curse, and he hastens to dwell with eagerness
on the draught which is to afflict seven-tenths of the world, on
the “ oceans of flaming hydrogen gasses” to be discharged by
the sun, and the tremendous showers of meteors which are to-
fall on the earth and remain in an incandescent state for hours.
Then the “so-called scientists” will respect astrology,'•and
teach its “ rules.” Meanwhile we expect most of them, as well
as other people, will come to the conclusion that Professor
Grimmer is either the unfortunate victim of perpetual nightmare,
or that he is an emigration agent in disguise, endeavouring, by
the extraordinary immunity he professes for the Pacific States,
to attract settlers to those favoured regions, which are to prove
a second Goshen throughout a series of plagues, compared with
which those of Egypt were but shadows.—The Echo.
A Seance at Dalston.—Mr. Thomas Blyton writes: “ One
of the best seances in the recollection of many members of the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism took jplace at
the Association’s rooms, 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane, Hackney
Downs, London, E., on Thursday evening last, the 26th ult, in
the presence of Mr. W. G. Haxby (the medium), Mrs. W. Elgie
Corner, Misses Caroline and Nina Corner, Mr. Thos. K. Howden,
Miss P. M. Howden, Mr. Thos. Wilks, Mrs. C. Rice, Mr. E. J.
Davey, Mrs. M. A. Macauley, Mr. R. G. Putnam, Mr. J. Toze-
land, Miss Louise Brassinne, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. Henri Bras-
sinne, Mr. R. Bodmer, and myself. The medium was placed
between the president and a lady visitor. All hands were inter¬
linked throughout the first portion of the stance, which was held
in complete darkpess. A variety of physical manifestations
ensued, such as the manipulation of the musical box as well as of
various articles in and about the room, beyond the reach of the
medium; the appearance of phosphorescent lights; and other
unmistakable evidences of ‘busy hands’ at work. At length an
exclamation from the president amiounced that the back of one
of the chairs was threaded upon her arm, where it was observed
upon a light being obtained, when the company were assured by
her that she had not relaxed her hold of the medium’s hand. A
sitting for the ordinary form manifestations then took place.”
July 4, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
3
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
BY MARY F. DAVIS.
It is with unspeakable reverence that we utter the
name of the great emancipator who so lately entered the
gateway of immortal life. At eleven o’clock on Satur¬
day evening, May 24th, William Lloyd Garrison passed
away in the fulness of a noble and beneficent career. In
common with his kindred and friends, an entire Republic
mourns. And not one country alone, for across the seas
there were eyes that wept and hearts that sank when
the electric wires trembled with the. sad tidings that
Freedom’s great champion was on earth no more.
It is but seldom that there is vouchsafed to us the
spectacle of a life so rounded out, so perfect in its great¬
ness, and with its line of rectitude so clear and unmarred.
Oliver Johnson, in his touching and worthy tribute
in the New York Tribune, gives a glowing picture
6f the agitator when, “Upon his knees, with all
the fervour of ingenuous youth, with his Bible open
before him, he had solemnly consecrated himself to
the task of delivering the slaves from their bondage,
and his country from her greatest crime and curse.”
From that time onward, in the invincible armour
of moral power, Mr. Garrison made war against op¬
pression. Scorn, vituperation, poverty, imprisonment j
and threats of cruel death by the assassin and the
mob, seemed but as so many spurs to his grand and
fearless soul, urging it onward to the accomplishment
of his sacred mission. His noble wife stood by his
side, and with the spirit of a martyr united her moral
strength with his in the face of danger and death.
She was spared to him and to her four beloved chil¬
dren until they saw the fruition of their hopes in the
emancipation of four millions of slaves. When, in 1876,
she passed away, his loving hand wrote,
“ In Memoriam :
S The grave, dear sufferer, had for thee no gloom,
And death no terrors when his summons came;
Unto the dust returns the mortal frame.
The vital spirit, under no such doom,
Was never yet imprisoned in the tomb;
But, rising heavenward, an ethereal flame,
Shines on unquenched, in essence still the same,
As is the light that doth all worlds illume.”
When our Commonwealth became “ a new Union, in
which there is neither a master nor a slave,” Mr. Garri¬
son gave the strength of his arm to other reforms. He
whose love and reverence for his mother “ were such that
he could never speak of her without deep emotion,”
advocated by pen and voice the enfranchisement of
women. His clear eye probed the depths to which a people
may sink when the mothers of the race are held in low-
esteem, and so he insisted that “ life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness ” should be accorded to all women,
inclusive of the despised class to whom Josephine
Butler, of England, has devoted her saving energies.
When the question of Chinese immigration rocked the'
country like an earthquake, his ringing voice was heard
in indignant protest against the exclusion of this
Oriental nation. Since the war he has watched the fate
of the coloured race with the solicitude of a father, and
his last public efforts when nigh unto death were made
in behalf of the sorrowful refugees included 'in the negro
exodus. He grew liberal in religion, and his last years
were glorified by faith in the ministry of angels. This
is a better world to-day for his having lived. And he
has gone to his reward; with the spirits of just men
made perfect, he is in holy accord. In the words of
Wendell Phillips, who stood by his grave, “ Even in
that higher work they wait for our coming also. Let
! j the years yet spared us here be warnings to make our-
! selves more fit for that companionship.”—Religio-PhUo-
| sophical Journal.
)! Patient study and perfect impartiality must precede rational
) i convictions, whether ending in faith or in doubt. Need it be
(j asked how many are capable of such an examination ?—Sharpe.
)j Mr. Charles Blackburn writes to us that in his room at
}i 33, Museum-street, London, Miss Cook will in future hold
(j seances wadiev her own control, and under the supervision of a
<| few scientific gentlemen who will test the various phenomena,
vj and give weekly publicity to the results for the benefit of
/ i science.
(i Dr. Carter Blake’s private class on Natural History and
|f Antiquities will meet in the galleries of the British Museum on
U July 7th, 9th, 11th, and 14th, from eleven to one. Addresses
/j will also be delivered by Mr. Samuel Birch, LL.D., keeper of
)j Egyptian Antiquities; by Mr. H. St. Chad Boscawen, E.S.A.;
(! by Dr. R. S. Charnock, late President of the Anthropological
(\ Society of London; and by Professor Owen, C.B., E.Il.S.,
y superintendent of the Natural History Department.
)| A Dream Pulfilled after Thirty Years.—Two yonng
men, residents of Norridgewock, met one morning, and one said:
P “ Charles, I dreamed last night that you were a judge of the
(j Supreme Court of Maine, and I was a minister, and that you
) j called on me to open your court with prayer.” Just thirty years
/! after this, the Rev. Dr. Charles E. Allen, late president of the
< j State College, happened to step into the Supreme Court room in
\ ! Augusta. Judge Charles Danforth beckoned to him, and asked
) i him to open his court with prayer, and behold the dream was
) i verified. The Rev. Dr. Allen is now pastor of the Methodist
(j church at Fairfield.—Fairfield (Me.) Chronicle.
\j The Late Prince Imperial.—Dean Stanley, preaching at
) | Westminster Abbey, remarked: “ He is gone, and he has left a
a| stainless name behind, honoured and respected even by his
(i adversaries. To his comrades and to you English boys he has
(j left the best of legacies—the example of a faithful and earnest
J! friend, the example of a pure life and of clean lips, as I have been
| told by one who knew him well. To the country which had
); sheltered him, he gave what he could—his service and his life.
< j To him it was permitted to die a soldier’s death, which was denied
\ i to his father and to his uncle; and he has been spared lifelong
f I struggles and temptations, the thought of which drew tears of
/1 anguish from his father as he was standing over Ms baby couch,
p! For her who now survives is there not a tender sympathy which
\ I is good for us, whatever may be our judgment on her career ?
) I Much people and of many lands are with her as she awaits the
)j coming of these remains—much people both of France and
(I England, princely, noble, and humble. Let us all remember that
(j he was the only son of his mother, and she is a widow.”
(j Feminine Perseverance.—The Livermore {Qo\.)Herald tells
)! a story of the wife of a well-known rancher living near that
) I place. Her husband was away on business a whole week recently,
(! and one day while he was absent the pump gave out. The
\ i nearest neighbour lived a long distance, so she hoisted up the
)j pipe herselK and found that the trouble lay in the suction leather,
> | which was too much worn to work properly. Away she went
)i and cut a new one, using the old one as a pattern. On returning
(i she found that a large hog had fallen into the open well.
)! Nothing daunted, she got a strong rope, made a slip-noose, fished
)!' it around the squealing porker, and then, lifting as hard as she
could, made the end fast to the curb, thus raising the animal
partially out of the water and preventing it from drowning. She
S| then harnessed a horse, hitched him to the rope, and, in less
;j time than it takes to tell it, that hog “All dripping with fresh-
) ! ness arose from the well.” But before the rescue of the parent
animal two of her offspring, crowding too close to the curb, pro*
s! bably to sympathise with their mother’s distress, lost balance, and
> | were now floundering around in the water at the bottom. In-
) I stantly the hog was rescued, our heroine set about the recovery
)| of the pigs. She procured a ladder, which, however, though
(j long enough to touch the water, was not long enough to reach
Sj the bottom of the well. Necessity is the mother of invention,
)•; and, procuring a fence rail, she thrust it through the top round,
)! resting both ends on the curb. Then climbing down the hang-
| i ing ladder, she rescued the two pigs, bringing both safely to the
\ I surface. This done, she quietly completed the job by putting in
) I the new suction leather, lowering the pipe into the well, closing
> • the curb, and pumping water for her week’s washing.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 4, 1879.
MRS. WELDON AND FIGARO.
In the Queen’s Bench Division at the Guildhall last Monday
the case of the Queen v. Mortimer came on for trial before the
Lord Chief Justice and a special jury. The matter came before
the court in the form of an indictment for libel, preferred by Mr.
Weldon against the proprietor and editor of Figaro for an article
published in that journal on the 22nd of January last. The
alleged libel, which was headed, “ Our Lunacy Laws : the Story
of Mrs. Weldon, written by Herself,” alleged that Mr. Weldon
had conspired with Sir H. de Bathe to shut Mrs. Weldon up in
a lunatic asylum, with the view of withholding his allowance of
^61,000 per annum, and to obtain a divorce from her in order
that he might marry the daughter of Sir H. de Bathe; and it
further attributed to him that he had attempted to bribe a lawyer
in the matter, and had endeavoured to get rid of Mrs. Weldon.
Mr. Serjeant Parry and Mr. Montagu Williams appeared for
the prosecution. Mr. Mortimer, the defendant, appeared in
person.
Mr. Serjeant Parry having opened the case and given formal
proof of the publication of the articles, proceeded to call
witnesses.
Mr. William Henry Weldon said that he held an appointment
in the Heralds’ College. He was married to Mrs. Weldon in
1860. In April, 1878, he took legal steps, under medical advice,
to put his wife into a lunatic asylum. Sir Henry de Bathe had
been a very intimate friend of his. Doctors Rutherford and
Temple were acting for him. There were no children of the
marriage. Those gentlemen gave certificates as to her state of
mind. His wife was not incarcerated under those certificates..
She still continued to reside at Tavistock House, Tavistock-
square. They were prevented from taking her under the certifi¬
cates. Rightly or wrongly, he acted under the belief that his
wife was labouring under delusions, and that it was necessary
that she should be subject to confinement. He had separated
from his wife in 1876, and had made her an allowance of a
furnished house and a thousand a year, which he had regularly
paid. He had read the article of the 22nd of January last. The
idea of marrying the daughter of Sir H. de Bathe had never
entered his mind. He did not know how old that lady was, and
he had only seen her three times. He had never attempted to
bribe a lawyer in the matter. He had never endeavoured to
obtain a divorce or to get rid of his wife in a bad sense. He had
never’endeavoured to avoid payment of her allowance. (Cross-
examined by Mr. Mortimer): He was aware that the alleged
libel was not actually written by him. The articles were written
by his wife. He was not aware that he bore him any malice.
He was aware that an apology was offered and refused. That
was after the rule nisi for a criminal information was obtained.
In his opinion the article of the 19 th of February tended to
accentuate the libel. He had taken these proceedings with the
object of stopping these libels. His attention had not been
drawn to any articles in Figaro reflecting upon himself since the
22nd of January. If his wife died, of course he would recover
possession of Tavistock House. He was to pay Dr. Winslow
£100 per annum for the maintenance and medical treatment of
his wife.
Mr. Mortimer was proceeding to ask questions tending towards
a justification of the statements in the article when his lordship
pointed out that there was no plea of justification upon the
record, and that therefore the questions could not be put.
Sir H. de Bathe said that he was a general in the army, and
was recently in command of the northern district. He had
known Mr. Weldon and his wife for a long time, and had been
on intimate terms with the former. He had seen the article in
question, and there was not a scintillation of truth in the state¬
ment that he was anxious that his daughter should marry Mr.
Weldon. She was twenty years of age. There was no truth in
the rest of the article.
This being the case for the prosecution,
The following evidence was given on behalf of the defendant:
Mr. George Lewis said that immediately after Mr. Weldon
took proceedings in respect of the article m question, the de¬
fendant called upon him, and instructed him to say that he was
not responsible for the publication of the article, and that he
wished to make an apology. The offer of an apology was
refused. (Cross-examined): Most likely he had coupled the
offer of an apology with a suggestion that Mr. Weldon should
pay his own costs. No apology was published in the Figaro.
He was aware of the rule of the Court of Queen’s Bench
!||. Division that rules for criminal informations were not to be
ju applied for merely for the purpose of extorting an apology.
\\\ Mr. Edwin Reed said he had managed the defendant’s business
j/j for the last two years. The publication of the article had not
| (I increased the sale of Figaro. The .defendant left all the details
U | of the editorial department to his sub-editor, in whom he placed
|>| great confidence. Shortly after these proceedings were com-
])j menced the sub-editor disappeared. (Cross-examined): The
|(j defendant took an interest in the paper himself. The sub-editor
m was the defendant’s servant.
lj| Mr. Mortimer, addressing the jury in his own defence, said
I) I that he had taken every honourable step in his power to endea-
j{ vour to stop these proceedings. He did not know Mr. Weldon
|(; personally, and directly he heard that that gentleman felt himself
! (| aggrieved by the publication of the article in question, he had
|) I expressed his regret that it had appeared, and had offered to
I /1 publish an apology, which offer, however, was most unfortunately
i (| refused. He had, notwithstanding, published what he beheved
Kj to be a frank disavowal of having been actuated by malice in
m publishing the article, for which, in a moral sense, he was entirely
i)| irresponsible. The truth was that he was being prosecuted by
|{j Mr. Weldon for allowing his wife to air her grievances in his
I)] paper, and this case was a striking illustration of the danger of
interfering between husband and wife. It was hard that he
|) | should be punished for having shown sympathy to a defenceless
j (! woman whom he believed to have been cruelly wronged. The
[yj Figaro was an independent* paper, which dealt freely with matters
i)i of public interest, and it was something in his favour that this
|| was the first time that criminal proceedings had ever been taken
•; / i against him in reference to the publication.
||| Mr. Serjeant Parry having replied,
5)j The Lord Chief Justice, in charging the jury, said that the
m first question for them to decide was whether the article was a
I) j libel; and if they were of opinion that the statements it con-
j(j tained were false, and were derogatory to and defamatory of
Kj Mr. Weldon, they must find that it was a libel. Then would
j come the question, Had the article been published by the de-
j fendant ? . Although prima facie he would be liable as proprietor
j(| for any libel that appeared in his journal, still it would be a good
])! ground of defence it he could show that it was published with-
)| out his knowledge or consent, provided the jury should be satis-
1 ( I fled that he had been guilty of no want of care or caution. In
i (| these days, when certain papers lived by publishing matters of a
| (\ libellous character, reflecting upon the private life of individua Is
iff it would not do to allow the proprietors and editors of such
| /1 newspapers to avoid responsibility by saying, “ Oh, I trusted to
|f| somebody else,” Or by eating their words when they found the
| v j law put in motion against them.
I)! The jury found the defendant guilty.
|) | His lordship postponed sentence, to afford the defendant an
1|| opportunity of filing affidavits in mitigation of punishment.—
| (! Fall Mall Gazette.
|| FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
j|| BY EDWAKD APPLEGARTH.
il I have had the pleasure of attending three stances this
m month, held in Mrs. Maltby’s drawing-room, at 61,
l)| Gower-street, London. Mrs. Corner was the medium.
Ki On each occasion the spirit Marie materialised, so that
|)i we could see and feel her, and she talked with us for
1(| about an hour on each evening. As all the stances were
j j somewhat similar as to character of phenomena, I will
! j only give a brief statement of what occurred at the
|)| last one.
|)| On June the 19th, at 7.30 p.m., eleven of us (three
!): ladies and eight gentlemen) sat in the form of a horse-
nj shoe, facing one corner of the room, across which green
|(l curtains were placed, forming a triangular cabinet. The
Kj curtains were loose at each side, and open down the
j)j centre, so that they could be pulled back from the wall
|(| at either side, or opened in the middle. The medium
|>| was seated on a chair at the right-hand corner; I passed
|p; a piece of tape round her waist and sewed it strongly
|)| together, forming a loop fitting tightly round her waist.
Hi Both ends of the tape were then tied to a lady’s chair
July 4, 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST.
outside of the curtain, at the right-hand side, so that the |)|
medium could not go further towards the left-hand corner j \ j
than where she sat without breaking the tape. There j) |
was sufficient light to enable us to see each other quite m
well. About five minutes after we wore seated the spirit m
Marie appeared at the left-hand corner and spoke to us, j)j
returning frequently, she said, to gain power, and in m
a few minutes she came out in front of the curtains and i) |
showed her bare feet and arms. She was dressed in jyj
white Turkish trousers and a loose-fitting bodice, appa- m.
rently all in one garment, and had a large white veil jn
which reached the floor all round, and which she lifted, j j j
showing her face and form. She took it off, and gave it j) j
to us to feel; she also asked for a pencil and paper, and j j j
wrote two short messages. I asked her to show us the I j j
medium and herself at the same time. She said, “I m
will try,” and in two or three minutes she pulled the |jj
curtain from the right-hand corner towards the left, |)j
showing the medium sitting in her chair. Then she |(j
pulled it from the left-hand corner, showing the medium’s | j|
feet and her own form at the same time, and then said— | (j
“Now you have seen the medium at both sides and jj
myself at the same time.” She had touched three of J
the sitters nearest the curtain, when she went out. ju
After Marie saying, “I can do no more to-night,” the |)l
medium awoke from her trance. I examined the tape, and | (!
found the sewing and knot still in the same place, so that it m
was impossible for the medium to have passed to the left- ! /1
hand side of the cabinet. I am quite convinced that m
Mrs. Corner is not only a genuine medium, but is also in |) I
a high state of development at the present time. I wish | (I
here to tender my sincere thanks to Mrs. Corner for Hi
giving us such convincing tests, and also to Mrs. Maltby |||
for inviting me to be present. . m
15, Angel-court, London, E.C., June 21st, 1879. in
— |) |
FAITH VERSUS WOBKS. | |
Mrs. Louisa Andrews writes from London to The j) I
Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.A.):— |(j
On a recent Sunday I attended afternoon service at the j (|
chapel of the Foundling Hospital, Guilford-street. The {j j
music was very good, and the choral singing by the | j
children very pleasant to hear. The crude, but fresh, ju
young voices sounded glad and vigorous, and most of the ||
faces looked rosy and happy. There are about four j||
hundred girls and boys in this institution, beside two jj!
hundred infants who are kept out in the country. The ju
clergyman who officiated preached a very lifeless sermon, j(j
which could hardly have afforded much spiritual help or. ij
enlightenment to the little ones for whose benefit, chiefly, j \ i
it was, as I suppose, intended, as the pews were almost j j j
empty. The reverend gentleman took for his text the j j j
story of the publican and the Pharisee who went up into j j j
the Temple to pray; and the whole gist of his teaching j|
was that humbly to confess our sins, to, have faith in j j
Jesus as our Saviour, and to believe that through Him the j j j
penitent sinner would receive forgiveness and justifica- j j
tion, was all-sufficient. We must not rely in any degree j j
on our own merits, must see ourselves to be the most j<j
abject and miserable of sinners, hopelessly condemned j|j
by the justice of God, and only to be saved through j j
the suffering and death of the innocent substitute ac- j(j
cepted in our place, to bear the consequences of our j j
guilt. Not one word about leading a good life, striv- jij
ing against temptation, speaking the truth and doing n|>|
good to others—all works were ignored. Nothing but i)j
sin, inborn and ineradicable, in human nature ; nothing j(j
but stern justice on the part of the Creator; while all ■ t/|
love, all pity, all hope of redemption must be sought
in and through Jesus. To Him alone we must look
for help and salvation. All Divine love was attributed
to Him who laid down His life on the blood-stained
altar of Omnipotent Justice; a justice demanding, by
the immutable laws of its being, “an eye for an eye,
and a tooth for a tooth ”—and, with the implacability
of a Shylock, insisting upon the fulfilment of the
letter of th^law as laid down in the bond. Well
might children, so taught, think it natural and right
to bend the knee, as these did, whenever the name of
Jesus was spoken or sung, while that of God, our Father,
was passed by unnoticed. How could they honour or
love such a God as had been represented to them 'i
It seemed truly a pity that all these girls and boys,
whose minds might so easily and by such simple words'
have been led into the light, and their hearts fed with
sweet and strengthening food, should get only such dry
and empty husks of doctrine. And yet even such wor¬
ship as this—the learning to look up to something above
themselves, unseen and holy, and to rest in faith upon a
love ever ready to help and save—must be greatly better
than nothing; and, perhaps, whether this love be attri¬
buted to- a being called God, or to one more conceivable
to them, named Jesus, or Christ, matters less than at
first sight it would seem to us to do. I tried to-realise
this in a right and loving spirit, for it was a touching
sight to see so many fatherless and motherless little ones
gathered together; and surely it is a most blessed charity
that takes these poor, forsaken lambs into a safe and
comfortable fold, making them as happy as children who
have no true home, and on whom no warm, personal
affection is lavished, can be. The clergymen of the
Church of England who preach salvation by faith do,
many of them, such faithful and notable work in their
efforts to elevate the depraved and ignorant, and to alle¬
viate the misery of those who cannot help, themselves,
that we who, perhaps, are too ready to pride ourselves
on our more liberal and exalted views of Deity and
humanity, may well pause and ask ourselves whether in
deeds of love and charity we excel or equal those whose
creeds we criticise so contemptuously. We who claim
to be true Spiritualists should be particularly careful not
to manifest, as too many are apt to do, a lack of brotherly
love in dealing with creeds sacred to many pure and
noble hearts. Charitable thinking and speaking is as
much a duty as charity in action. We should remember
that the tree is rightly judged by its fruits, and that
those preach most eloquently, and teach most efficiently,
whose deeds, inspired by the spirit within, speak for
them. Words and actions which are tender, considerate,
and loving, should be to the world the outward manifest
tations of our faith.
Wobshipping the Spimts oe Ancestors.—The worship of
ancestors is a remarkable and prominent feature in Chinese social
life. The rich have in their houses a chamber, a kind of domestic
sanctuary, dedicated to their forefathers. Tablets, representing
the deceased persons, and inscribed ■with their names, are here
carefully preserved; and, at stated seasons, prostrations and
ceremonies are performed before them, according to the Book of
Bites. Death is never alluded to in direct terms. Banquets are
offered to the dead, and pathetic speeches addressed to them.
They meet their end with apparent unconcern, troubling themselves
very little regarding their future state, but showing excessive
anxiety about the quality of their coffins, which they frequently
provide and keep on hand as a neat parlour attraction, or orna¬
ment, during life. Coffins are also most acceptable as presents;
and are frequently given by children to their parents, a proceed¬
ing that in this country would effectually serve to cut off the
donor’s prospects in the will.
6
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 4, 1879.
REDUCTION OF POSTAGE OF THE SPIRITUALIST
TO FOREIGN READERS.
The Spiritualist being now reduced a little in size can
be sent through the post to certain foreign countries for
a halfpenny instead of a penny postage. Henceforth,
therefore, it can be sent free by post for ten shillings and
tenpence a year instead of thirteen shillings, to the
following countries within the Postal Union r—
Austro -Hungary.
Belgium.
Canada (Dominion
of).
Cyprus.
Denmark.
Egypt.
France.
Germany.
Gibraltar.
Greece.
Italy.
Luxemburg.
Malta.
Marquesas Islands.
Netherlands.
Newfoundland.
Norway.
Persia, via Black
Sea or Caspian
Sea.
Portugal (includ¬
ing Azores and
Madeira.)
Roumania.
Russia.
St. Pierre-et-
Miquelon.
Servia.
Spain.
Sweden.
Switzerland.
Tahiti.
Turkey.
United States.
WAS IT A DEATH WARNING?
Apparitions of dying persons are frequently seen at
the death moment by friends at a distance, who also not
uncommonly receive death warnings by dreams, visions,
or impressiops. Is the following a case of the kind ? It
is given in The World of this week:—
“ A week or two ago a young gentleman, whose friends
live near Chislehurst, arrived from the Cape. It was in¬
timated to the Empress that if she cared to see him he
would wait upon her. She was delighted, and listened
with rapt attention to all he had to tell. When he de¬
scribed the assegai used by all the Kaffir and Zulu tribes
she expressed a wish to see one. They were in the hall,
and were forthwith produced. The Empress all but
; fainted at the sight of them, and then burst into a flood
of tears. ‘ Do not think me weak,’ she said; ‘but until I
saw these terrible weapons I never realised the danger
my son ran.’ At that very moment he had been killed
by assegai wounds, seventeen in number.”
MR. EGLINTON’S PROPOSED VISIT TO INDIA.
A GREAT desire exists in India that a medium should
visit that country, but in consequence of there being no
Spiritualistic establishment of any kind in India, by
means of which those residents who are interested in
psychology can make themselves known to each other,
they have found it impracticable to combine to engage a
medium.
Mr. W. Eglinton, of 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court,
Kensington, London, wishes us to make known his desire
to visit India next November, if, at least, his travelling
expenses both ways be guaranteed him. The offer of
European engagements between London and Brindisi
might lighten the outlay otherwise necessary. He says
that he wishes Spiritualists in India to write and tell him
for how many stances they would each engage him, and
how much they would each contribute towards his
travelling expenses.
Mr. Eglinton has often obtained strong manifestations
while he was held hand and foot, and those of the
phenomena which were obtained under such conditions
have, so far as we know, given general satisfaction.
Mr. 'VY. Eglinton, the medium, is now in Paris.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIENCES OF ELIJAH
THE SECOND.
Hhe Monitor, a journal published in Portsmouth, says :—j
“ Many and various have been the conjectures of our ‘ excited
fellow-citizens’ anent the polar-exploration-costumed orator who
has been delighting the silly and puzzling the sage of ‘this
populous and flourishing borough.’ Were his sheepskin dress
and his speeches the consequence of a wager, the craze of a
lunatic, the trick of a mountebank, or the freak of an enthusiast ?
The first hypothesis has perhaps the most numerous favourers,
and the last the fewest. But those who have listened to one of
Elijah’s temperate, grave, argumentative addresses, will have
realised that the first two theories are inadmissible. It lies then
between the two last. But he is too earnest for a mountebank
and too cool for an enthusiast. He is far removed from one
religious trickster—there is no cunning in his face, egotism in his
manner, or unctuousness in his voice—as he is from the religious
monomaniac: there is no abandonment, no declamation, no
denunciation. Withal, he is a fluent and refined speaker: one
who can keep a motley audience in fixed attention for two hours
at a time. Altogether, he is a psychological study of a very
curious and interesting kind; and therefore, leaving out of con¬
sideration the novelty, originality, and desperateness of his
mission, I judged it my duty to ‘ interview’ (as our American
cousins word it) this eccentric individual, that the public might
have fuller evidence upon which to base their verdict concerning
him.
“ When I had been brought into the presence of the prophet,
and had stated my business, I was greeted with a courteous
invitation to the sofa, and an equally courteous intimation of the
pleasure he would feel in affording me information. While I
mentally arranged my course of cross-examination, I took a com¬
prehensive survey of Elijah II., and found him a tall young man
of imposing presence, rendered the more so by his shaggy and
picturesque garb: with brown beard and moustache ; closely-
cropped hair under his sheep-skin cap, which he wears indoors, a
florid and beautifully clear complexion, brick-red cheeked and
wholesome, like a sunburnt child’s; bright, healthy, honest hazel
eyes; a full forehead; white and regular teeth; a straight and
rather small nose; a pleasant voice; a ready smile. These items
make a very attractive whole, as my lady friends will readily
agree; and when I add that there is a quite touching sweetness
and gentleness in his look and demeanour, it will be seen how
engaging a person he is. He might have sat to a painter as a
model for Christ.
“ This is what my questions elicited:—Declined to state name,
for fear of giving annoyance to his relatives. Was nearly
twenty-six years of age, and a native of Peckham Rye, near
London. Had been a landscape-painter, but gave up that pro¬
fession nine months since, in obedience to a supernatural visita¬
tion. This visitation occurred a few days before his twenty-fifth
birthday—the age at which Levites, of whom knew himself to be
one, commenced their priestly duties. At half-past twelve at
night heard the voice of the Lord God commanding him not to
go to bed. Wfent into studio and fell asleep in a chair. Awoke at
three, and was aware of a presence sitting opposite, which spoke
thus—‘I have called thee Elijah, my son; hear me, and say at
all meetings, I am Elijah the prophet.’ Believed the presence
to be that of an angel. Had no clear idea of its aspect, but was
of opinion that it was masculine. Had had six other visitations—
the first in February, 1874, the last a few weeks since.* Was
also guided by the ‘ dark speech,’ an oracle which replied to all
questions by motion. Had never heard of the daimcn of Socrates.
Had never been subject to hallucinations, but had passed a very
common-place Existence previous to above date. Did not know
whether his. friends thought him mad, but they had certainly
never said so. H&d always felt serene and happy, but especially
since entering on his work. Found it much easier to live now
than before, as the Scriptures told him he should. [This utter¬
ance, so frank and ingenuous, is rendered the easier of credence
when it is known that the new Elijah lives with a frugality that
would delight our friends of the Vegetarian Society. I judge by
his breakfast, on which I subsequently intruded, having some
supplementary question to put; it consisted, I could not help
noticing, simply of brown bread, butter, and milk. An example
for more orthodox spiritual guides, who are, people say, some¬
what too conspicuously prone to eat of the fat and drink of the
strong.] His mission was not prediction, but to preach the
restoration of Israelitish rites and customs.”
July 4, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE FIRST SEVERE SURGICAL OPERATION j|
PERFORMED IN ENGLAND UNDER MESMERIC ||
INFLUENCE, j |
.BY CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES. |(|
I have thought it advisable to present in this number k|
of The Spiritualist the report of Mr. W. Squire Ward, |)|
M.R.C.S., the surgeon who performed the operation of Kl
the thigh at Wellow. The two reports—viz., that of the |(
mesmeriser and that of the operator—will thus appear in |)|
two successive numbers, which will be found convenient jvj
for future reference. The following is the report read by K
Mr. Ward to the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society j)
of London on Tuesday, the 22nd of November, 1842:— n
Me. Peesident and Gentlemen,—Being a party con- |)
cerned in offering the present'paper for reading before
your learned society, I feel that, as a member of your n
own profession, and the operator alluded to in the pre- j)
ceding pages, some observations are due from me in j(
addition to those already brought before you by my friend |>
Mr. Topham. |)
The circumstances under which the operation was per- Is
formed are of so novel a nature that they may afford j)
much ground for discussion, if the members of the pro- jc
fession, to whom I have the honour of addressing these j >
observations, will calmly deliberate upon them, and, I)
without prejudice, examine the subject, which (should j\
further experience confirm the anticipations that may |)
reasonably be entertained from the happy result of the js
present trial) holds out such a boon to the surgeon, whose j)
province it is, and whose study it has for ages been, to R
mitigate the poignant sufferings that “ flesh is heir to.” j\
The case to which the attention of the society has been }jj
already called was one of very extensive ulceration of the R
cartilages of the knee-joint of four and a half years’ |)
standing, the consequence of neglected inflammation of R
the synovial membrane, produced by injury, which was R
treated by a quack in the first instance, but did not come i)
under my own notice until about three years before his I
admission into the District Hospital at Wellow; when, ||
supposing ulceration to have commenced in the cartilages, ii
I ordered absolute rest and the usual treatment, which n
was only adhered to for ten days, when in spite of every !<
remonstrance on my part he returned to his ordinary |
employment (an agricultural labour) in his still crippled R
state. -R
He then fell into the hands of other practitioners, whose n
discipline was less rigid, and whose prognosis was more |)
sanguine than mine. I frequently met him, and occa- r1
sionally warned him of the eventual loss of his limb, if j)
he persisted in using it. His last fair prospect was a I
promised cure by cupping ; but this having produced no K
relief, he applied for admission into the hospital. At j)
this time the disease had far advanced; the slightest r
motion of the joint was attended by the most excruciating j
agony; his nights were almost wholly sleepless, in con- j
sequence of the painful startings of the limb; his pulse
weak and rapid; his face constantly marked with a hectic
flush ; his tongue foul, and appetite gone. He was now j
confined to his bed, but could not bear a horizontal posi- j
tion. The joint was supported by a light splint; poultices, I
fomentations, &c., were applied; attention paid to his
general health; opiates, quinine, wine, &c., prescribed,
to get him into a fit state for the operation (which I j
deemed inevitable), without any apparent benefit; but on j
hearing that Mr. Topham was coming into the neighbour-
hood, I determined to request him to try the effects of |
mesmerism upon him, with a view not only of tranquil- j
Using the system prior to the operation, but, if possible,
to procure such a degree of insensibility to pain as to
render the man unconscious of the operation itself;
having long desired to see this accomplished, as the
summum bonum of mesmerism.
I was, however, obliged to leave home from indispo¬
sition at this period, but daily received reports of the
progress made upon my patient; and, on my return, on
the -27th of September—about three weeks after the
commencement of the mesmerism—I was as much
astonished as I was delighted to observe the improved
condition of the man. He had now much more the hue
of health; his nights were more quiet and tranquil; his
appetite had returned; and, in fact, such was his state,
that had I not known the previous history of the case,
much doubt must have arisen in my mind as to the pro¬
priety of immediately amputating the limb. It is true
there was still the pain on the slightest movement of the
joint, and still some of the same painful startings at night;
but he no longer appeared to be suffering in his .general
health, which, on the contrary, was greatly improved.
Nevertheless I felt assured, notwithstanding all this in his
favqur, that there was too much disease to admit of a
final recovery.
As I .had quite determined upon not attempting to
remove the limb while the patient was under mesmeric
influence, unless I was convinced of its safety, and had
opportunities of seeing him in that state, and, moreover,
not without the man’s own full concurrence, on the 29th
I requested Mr. Topham to mesmerise him, when I was
delighted to find his susceptibility so great. When
asleep (if I may use the term) his breathing was un¬
altered, his pulse tranquil, and about eighty; his waking
was slow and gradual, and without the least start, and I
found he was insensible to the prick of a pin.
Under such circumstances I saw no grounds for fear
or hesitation; and having obtained the patient’s consent,
or rather at his own urgent request, I fixed the following
Saturday, 1st of October, for the performance of the
operation.
The patient (as has been already stated) was lifted with
. his bed upon a platform, and although he was consider¬
ably excited by hearing the cries of another patient, upon
whom I had been performing a tedious and painful opera¬
tion in an adjoining room, he was soon put into mesmeric
sleep; but as I wished him to beplacedintheusualposition,
with the limbs extended over the end of the bed, an attempt
was made to draw him down with the bed-clothes, but
this occasioned so much pain as to awake him. I was
now somewhat embarrassed, as his position on the bed,
with his extremity lying in close contact with it, was so
very unfavourable to the operator; but having proceeded
thus far, I was unwilling to mar the first attempt at lessen¬
ing the horror and pain of a capital operation, although,
I must confess, I was by no means sanguine of success.
The patient was again put to sleep, previously to which a
surgeon present raised the limb about two inches from the
mattress, by resting the heel upon his shoulder and sup¬
porting the joint with his hand, promising also if the man
should awake instantly to draw him down, so as to allow
the leg to extend beyond the edge of the bed.
In a few minutes Mr. Topham said he was quite ready,
when having adjusted the tourniquet, the very unfavour¬
able position of the patient precluding the possibility of
otherwise compressing the artery, I proceeded to perform
the operation, as has been described. Having made the
anterior flap without the slightest expression of con¬
sciousness on the part of the patient, I was under the
necessity of completing the posterior one in three stages.
First, by dividing a portion of the flap on the inside, then
a similar portion on the outside. This proceeding (which,
of course, was far more tedious and painful than the
8
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 4, 1879.
ordinary one) was rendered necessary to enable me to
pass the knife through under the bone, and thus complete
the whole, as I could not sufficiently depress the handle
to do so, without the two lateral cuts.
Beyond what has been already so well described by
Mr. Topham, I need only add that the extreme quivering
or rapid action of the divided muscular fibres was less than
usual; nor was there so much contraction of the muscles
themselves. I must also notice that two or three times 1
touched the divided end of the sciatic nerve, without any in-
crease of the low moaning, described by Mr. Topham, and
which to all present gave the impression of a disturbed
dream.
The patient is doing remarkably well, and sat up on
Sunday last to eat his dinner, just three weeks from the
operation, and he has not had a single bad symptom;
none even of the nervous excitement so frequently
observed in patients who have undergone painful opera¬
tions, mnd who have suffered much previous anxiety in
making up the'ir minds.
On dissection of the joint the appearances fully
verified my diagnosis. The cartilages of the tibia, femur,
and patella had been entirely absorbed, except a much-
thinned layer, partly covering the patella. There was
deep, carious ulceration of the exposed ends of the bones,
and. especially on the inner condyle of the femur, which
had wholly lost its rounded shape. Some coagulated
lymph was effused upon the surface of the synovial
membrane in several places, and the joint contained a
certain quantity of dark-coloured pus.
It is not my intention to trespass further upon the
valuable time of the society by presuming to stand for¬
ward as champion of mesmerism generally—a task to
which I feel myself to be totally incompetent. For a
long time I had been a sceptic, and long a cui lono
querist, when, through the kindness of Dr. Elliotson, a
few months ago, I was allowed an opportunity of
examining for myself the power of that agent in produc¬
ing coma, in rendering rigid the muscles, and in causing
to a certain extent insensibility to pain. I saw, and was
convinced that my opposition was ill-founded, and the
result of this conviction has been the present successful
and flattering trial, which is a sufficient answer to those
who are incredulous only as to any benefit to be derived
from it, for there can be very few now, even of the most
bigoted objectors, who will venture to deny its powers
in producing coma. This, too, in the calmest tempera¬
ment ; not merely according to the frequent supposition
in the highly-nervous young female, but even to utter
insensibility in an agricultural labourer, aged 42, to which
class I need scarcely add nervous excitement, in the
common acceptation of the term, is almost an entire
stranger.
Be it observed, also, so complete was the susceptibility
that coma was quickly produced under the most un¬
favourable circumstances, as when in extreme pain from
his disease, when using his own volition to the utmost, to
counteract it, and when on the table with the fear of the
operation before his eyes.
Although the single experiment we have detailed to the
society is scarcely sufficient to set the question com¬
pletely at rest, is it not of a sufficiently encouraging
nature to demand an immediate reflection by those of my
professional brethren to whom the splendid institutions of
the metropolis offer such frequent opportunities ?
W. Squibb Wakd.
Wellow, near Ollerton, Notts, Oct. 29th, 1842.
Mb. S. C. Hall, F.S.A., has. just issued a book, entitled
A Memory of Thomas Moore.
“WHO WROTE SHAKESPEARE’S PLAYS?”
BY HENEY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOK OB “ LETTEES TO
MISS MABTINEAU.”
It would be absurd to expect to find the same variety
in Bacon’s philosophical writings as in the plays, where
we have philosophy and poetry combined, together with
wit, humour, and every kind of character and turn of
sentiment. But here is Ben Jonson’s account of Bacon.
Bacon’s prose, says Judge Holmes, is Shakespearean
poetry, and Shakespeare’s poetry is Baconian prose.
Jonson says :—“ There happened in my time one noble
speaker, who was full of gravity in his speaking. His
language, where he could spare, or pass by a jest, was
nobly censorious. No man ever spoke more neatly,
more pressly, more weightily, or suffered less emptiness,
less idleness, in* what he uttered. No member of his
speech but consisted of his own graces. His hearers
could not'cough or look aside from him without loss.
He commanded where he spoke, and had his judges angry
and pleased at his devotion. No man had their affections
more in his power. The fear of every man who heard
him was lest he should make an end.” Here, then, we
have related, from one most capable of judging, those
very qualities of mind we should expect to find in the
writer of the plays, but which Shakespeare was never
known to have exhibited at any time, or in any place;
and we have not a scrap of his play-writing existing, or
ever known to have existed, nor referred to in his will.
Some of his finest plays were not known to exist until
seven years after his death, in the collected folio of 1623.
Now I will refer to another judge, Professor Fowler,
of Oxford, in his late work on Bacon’s Novum Organum,
who in his preface says:—“To all these sources of
influence we must add the marvellous language in which
Bacon often clothes his thoughts. His utterances are not
infrequently marked with a grandeur and solemnity of
tone,1 a majesty of diction, which renders it impossible to
forget, and difficult even to criticise them. He speaks as
one having authority, and it is impossible to resist the
magic of his voice. Whenever he wishes to be emphatic
there is the true ring of genius about all that he says.
Hence, perhaps, it is that there is no other author,
unless it be Shakespeare, who is so easily remembered or
so frequently quoted. His phraseology, when most
quaint, as in the case of the Idols and the Instances, is
often most attractive to the reader and most persistent in
its hold on the memory. Hence, too, perhaps it is that
there is no author so stimulating. Bacon might well be
called the British Socrates. Even had his individual
precepts been utterly worthless, many men must have
owed their first impulse to the study of nature, or to
independent investigation in general; to the terse and burn¬
ing words issuing, as it were, from the lips of an irresistible
commander, with which he urges them to the work.”
Further on Professor Fowler says: “ What Bacon says
of Plato is pre-eminently true of himself. He was a man
of a sublime genius, who took a view of everything as
from a high rock. Now to the young student I know
nothing of so much importance as to be brought into con¬
tact with works of real genius; and there must be many
men who recollect the transition from dry manuals of
logic to the brilliant pages of Bacon as forming one of the
eras in their lives. Maxims such as these, “Homo rntwrce
minister et interpres,’ ‘ Scientia et jpotentia humana in idem
coincidunt,1 (Lucifer a ezperimenta, non fructifera, queerenda?
(Rede veritas temporis filia dicitur, non auctoritatis,’ ‘ Pessima
res est errorum opotheosis,’ which sparkle on almost every
page, live long in the memory, and insensibly influence
our whole habit of thought. This educational value of
the Novum Qrganum has never, I think, been sufficiently
pointed out, but it seems to me yery real and very impor-
July 4, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
tanfc. As I have already noticed tinder the last section,
there is something about Bacon’s diction, his quaintness
of expression, and his power of illustration, which lays
hold of the mind, and lodges itself in the memory, in a
way which we hardly find paralleled in any other author,
except it be Shakespeare.”
Here, then, we have an independent opinion of one not
agreeing with Judge Holmes. The plays we suppose to
have been intended, not only to expound philosophy to
the many, but to be what Bacon calls “ types and models
to hold the mirror up to nature, and exhibit and illustrate
the varied nature of man himself.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, France,
REMARKABLE PICTURES PRODUCED BY SPIRITS.
NUMBER ONE.
Some of the remarkable spirit drawings and spirit
paintings, carefully collected during the course of half a
lifetime by Mr. Benjamin Coleman, are now on view in
the reading-room, at 88, Great Russell-street, London,
and they are well worthy of inspection. An interesting
history is connected with each of them, and in several
instances the signatures of witnesses attesting their
genuineness are attached. In the course of time the
value of these early evidences connected with the history
of Spiritualism will be priceless.
The autographs of the witnesses are interesting.
Among them is that of the late J. W. Edmonds, Judge
of the Supreme Court, New York.
The following is a description of the method of produc¬
tion of four pictures, three of which are among those now
on public view. They were obtained through the
mediumship of Mrs. French, in New York, in the pre¬
sence of Mr. Coleman, whose description of the circum¬
stances was published as follows in the Spiritual Maga¬
zine for 1861, vol. 2, p. 436 :—t
u On the evening fixed I went, accompanied by Judge I)
Edmonds, who had not seen this new phase of spirit- i)
power, and our party numbered about twelve, including a j (
lady who was the mother of the spirit * Jemmy,’ and he, p
I found, was the principal artist in the production of |I
these spirit drawings. As soon as we were assembled K
Mrs. French became entranced, and with great formality i)
invited each to take a particular seat, reserving the post K
of honour next to herself for mo, where I could best see ||
the exact mode in which the stance was conducted. A R
very small drawing-room table was placed in the centre K
of the circle, and not within three feet of any of i/i
us. A shawl was then tied round the lower part K
of the legs of the table to form a dark chamber, j)
Under this was placed a thin board, to make a k
firm surface, on which to spread the drawing paper, j\
two saucers of water-colours and brushes, a bundle j)
of coloured crayons, some drawing pencils, and a glass of K
water. Several fresh sheets of drawing paper were then |>
handed to the medium, which she gave us to examine, j)
and then she cut them into exact squares. Rolling them j \
up into tubes, she commenced breathing through them, |)
exercising an effort that lasted five minutes, and which \l
appeared to exhaust her. This singular process, she ex- I)
plained, was to give the necessary moisture to the surface j)
of the paper, and superseded the use of wine and acids, \
as at first used by her, for damping it. She then handed /
the roll to me, requesting that I would put it under the (
covered part of the table, whilst she at the same time )
went on her knees, placed her hands under the cover, \
)| spread the sheets out flat, and returned to her seat by my
(j side. All these arrangements being made with the gas
)j burning, she then requested the light to be lowered, which
wa;s done, though it was still light enough for us to see
(j each other, and even the hands of our -watches. Thus
>| seated in perfect quiet, after a brief interval the medium
<| cried ‘ Time !’ when presently we heard a rapid scraping
and scrubbing on the card-board, as if many hands were
h at work with the quickness of steam power j and ‘ Time ’
j being again called, the pencils were heard to drop siid-
>1 denly and simultaneously from the hands, as it were, of
<| the invisible artists. The same process and arrangements
ij being repeated, four elaborate and beautifully-executed
| pictures of birds and flowers were produced in succession,
the first being a pencil drawing and the others in colours,
/! and the time occupied was respectively eight, eleven,
(j twelve, and fifteen seconds. I am aware how difficult it
)| is to realise such a statement, that finished drawings
)i should be executed in such a way, and in such an incon-
<! ceivably short space of time; but all I can say is, I have
)| faithfully recorded the facts. There was, I can assure
(j the reader, an absence of everything like conjuring ar-
)| rangements. Mrs. French never left our sight. I saw
(j the white surface of the card-board before the operations
)j commenced ; and the most striking and convincing fact to
)] those present, of the work having been done on the in-
V stant, was that the coloured drawings were wet when taken
)| up, and that they took some minutes to dry after they were in
r| our hands, and at the close of the sitting I removed, at
M Mrs. French’s request, the shawl that was tied round the
d legs of the table. No one present suspected imposture,
M and, indeed, under the circumstances, it would have been
>j foolish and unjust to do so. The scene and results are not
(| imaginary, as some wise people would suggest, for I have
if the four drawings in my possession, endorsed with the
|f names of several gentlemen who were present, including
\j Judge Edmonds and Mr. J. Gurney, the artist. When the
X fourth drawing was completed, the medium, addressing
'■ me, and still speaking in the trance state, said * That is
all we purpose doing this evening. I am sorry, sir, we
could not manage to put a Bible chapter into one of them,
as you wished. We meant to place it in the centre of
the wreath. We will, however, do it for you another
day.’ ”
At a subsequent stance “ Six drawings were produced
in rapid succession, each occupying but a few seconds.
The first one was presented to me, and I was gratified to
find that the spirits had not forgotten their promise.
They had drawn a beautifully-executed bouquet, with
a hand rising from the centre holding an open Bible,
with a part of the 14th chapter of John—two hundred
words most minutely but legibly written in pencil, and
the time of its production was just eleven seconds”
In a future number we will describe some more of
these pictures. Those of them which Mr. Coleman
collected are for sale, and the proceeds are to be ap¬
plied to a purpose very dear to his heart. Particulars
may be obtained on application to the secretary on the
premises.
Shepherd Tom.—A copy of the Newport Mercury, Rhode
Island, has been sent ns. It is the oldest newspaper in America,
has reached its 6,293 number, and was established by Franklin in
1758. Its issue of June 7th last announces that the veteran
Spiritualist, Mr. T. R. Howard, aged eighty-two, has just
brought out a book entitled Recollections of Olden Times, under
the assumed name of Shepherd Tom. The book contains much
about the early history of some of the chief families of Rhode
Island, and describes some stirring events almost outside the
memories of many of the present generation.
10
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 4, 1879.
SELLING- THE AFFECTIONS.
The following are a few verses from a long poem by
Mr. George R. Sims, published in The, World this week :
Hark! It is over! The organ peals,
The Bishop has mumbled the final word;
Over the chancel the sunlight steals,
Mocking the sob the bridesmaids heard.
Here, in the sight of a God above,
The Earl has taken a fair young bride;
Here they have sworn to honour and love.
And each of them knew that the other lied.
This is a market where slaves are sold;
Bare is the slave that they sell to-day.
They barter ber sweet white flesh for gold
To a noble sheep who has gone astray.
For rank and jewels and vast estates
They forced his badge on her dainty hand,
Sealing her doom to the worst of fates—
Here in a Church in a Christian land.
My lord the Bishop, he bowed his head,
And rolled his eyes with a mellowed grace.
As the beautiful words in the book he read.
And a sunbeam fell on his saintly face.
His lordship knew of the bridegroom’s fame—•
He knew of the women, the cards, and wine;
But up from the altar he sent his name
To be specially blessed by the King divine.
He gazed on the face of the high-born maid,
And saw the mark where the tears had been;
He knew that a daughter had wept and prayed,
He knew that a mother had feared a scene—
Had torn herself from the weeping girl
Whose love was away o’er the distant sea.
And had sold her child to a noble Earl
Who had just got round from a bad d. t.
^
They will come one day to a drunken fool,
And break the news of his crowning shame;
He’ll sit awhile for his brain to cool.
Then snivel and hiccough his rival’s name.
A nine days’ scandal will feast the crowd,
' A couple will hide in a distant land:
’Twere better her mother had sewn a shroud
Than forced that ring on her daughter’s hand!
Me. And Mbs. William Tebb have returned to London from
Eastbourne, to prepare for sailing to New York on the 17th of
July, by The City of Berlin, from Liverpool. The St. Pancras
Guardians have resolved not to prosecute Mr. Tebb again for the
non-vaccination of his child Beatrice, otherwise Mr. and Mrs.
Tebb had some thoughts of leaving her in America until she
became fourteen years of age, the recent ■ persecution for con¬
science’s sake” having had a painful effect upon Mr. Tebb’s health,
Yaccination should be rendered optional, under restrictions, but
not compulsory.
Cremation-.—An argument in favour of cremation is fur¬
nished by the facts set forth some time ago in the following
paragraph from the Daily Telegraph:—“The parish clerk of
Stapleford, a village between Nottingham and Derby; has met
with his death in a most remarkable manner. He was engaged
in making a vault, when unfortunately he struck his pickaxe into
a coffin in the adjoining grave. A horrible stench at once broke
forth, and he was unable to continue his work. He was shortly
afterwards taken seriously ill, and Dr. Bland was called in.
The poor fellow by this time was suffering the most frightful
agonies, and he expired from blood poisoning.”
--l-^Saas—
VISITORS AT THIRTY-EIGHT GREAT RUSSELL STREET.
Sir,—It seems to me that the construction put by Dr. Carter
Blake on the letter of the Council to Mrs. Lowe is the. only
possible one. It is not alleged that the visits of Dr. Blake
since his resignation have been frequent; on the contrary, in his
letter in your paper of 23rd May, he tells us that only on two
occasions, during two months, can he remember to have been
inside the rooms. Nor is this statement contradicted, or Dr.
Blake’s recollection shown to be defective, in the letter of the
Council, which was evidently drawn up with considerable care;
and which, moreover, fails to show why Dr. Blake, more than
any one else who has recently left the Association, should have
been subjected to this strange affront on so slight a pretext.
The only conclusion which I and others in like case can come to
is, that the courtesy hitherto extended to visitors without dis¬
tinction—even, sometimes, to known opponents and vilifiers of
Spiritualism—is to be refused to those whose radical disagree¬
ment with the governing body has been marked by withdrawal.
It is, at any rate, obvious that none of us, with such an unex¬
plained precedent before us, would ever run the risk of a
“ reminder,” and natural consequences must be taken to have
been foreseen and intended. It might, however, be as well if
this exception were expressed in the part of the advertisement
referring to visitors and inquirers. Perhaps this conciliatory
inducement should be taken m connection with the conciliatory
tone of the President at the late Council meeting in inviting the
“ weak and feeble” persons who have “ idly left’’ the Association
to return to it.
C. C. Massey.
Temple, June 30. ■■■■■•——
Sir,—Will you kindly oblige me by inserting the enclosed
reply to the Council’s letter to me of the 13th inst. ?
Louisa Lowe.
June 27th, 1879.
To the Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—I have the honour to acknow¬
ledge your letter of the 13th inst., and to thank you for the
compliment you have paid me in asking me to reconsider my
resignation. But while accepting, as I necessarily now must,
without reserve, your assurance that Dr. Carter Blake’s expul¬
sion from the Association’s premises is not on account of his
religious opinions, I cannot consider the explanation of it given
by you as satisfactory, inasmuch as a similar expulsion has not
been decreed against other ex-members who resigned at the same
time as Dr. Blake, and have since “ used the rooms” to the full as
much as he has; that is, they have, like him, occasionally called
during office hours on their friend your secretary, or gone in to
purchase papers that she had it in charge to sell. I do not
know how far these objects come fairly within the “privileges
voluntarily renounced” by resignation of membership; but, be
this as it may, it is clear that singling out one for expulsion
among the many who, by the Council’s judgment, have equally
incurred liability to it, a very invidious character is given to the
transaction. It is peculiarly unfortunate that this invidious and,
I may say, insulting exception should have been made against
one whose skilled, generous, and gratuitous services to the
Association called forth a vote of thanks from the Council at the
time of his resignation. But I should in any ca& whatever
have felt such an exception to be unjust, and I can no more
be a “ passive participator” in what, rightly or wrongly, I think
unjust than in what I think intolerant. I must, therefore,
adhere to my resignation. With best wishes for the future
prosperity of the Association, I remain, ladies and 'gentlemen,
yours faithfully, Louisa Lowe.
64, Berners-street, W., June 23rd, 1879.
MRS. HARDINGE-BRITTEN’s WORK.
To the Editor of “ The Banner of Light.”
“ I would gladly send you tidings of spiritual progress from
below the equator were there sufficiently interesting material for ;
the purpose, but beyond the bare fact that Mr. Henry Slade has
been and gone, awakening enthusiasm and interest on the part
of believers, and calumny and slander from sceptics, there is
little or nothing of a phenomenal, nature to record.
“ Mr. Thomas Walker and I have kept the ball rolling in
July 4, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
11
Sydney and Melbourne by unremitting platform ministrations |<
during the past twelve months. Large and enthusiastic au- H
diences have greeted us both; warm personal friends have |
smoothed the rugged paths that these distant lands open up to j <
us, and many a grateful thought will turn southward from every
scene I may henceforth visit, in memory of the beloved friends
and fellow labourers I shall, in all probability, never more meet
on this side of the spiritual Jordan. Amidst a full tide of public
services and public successes, my way has not been altogether
unmixed with thorns, and those planted by the hands that should
have been foremost to have rooted them up.
“ Save and except the embarrassments which every industrious
servant of the spirits is liable to suffer at the hands of their own
household, my career in Australia has been one of uninterrupted
success, and missionary work of the most influential and im¬
portant character.
“ Seven months of my time were passed in Melbourne, five in
Sydney, and in each place immense audiences greeted me;
hundreds of letters and interviews from private parties have
borne witness to the direct conversions effected in theological
opinions, and in a thousand ways, both from friends and enemies,
I have positive evidence to show that a greater change has been
wrought in public opinion by my own and Mr. Walker’s last
twelve months’ Australian labours than the dreary platitudes of
old theology can subvert in many and many a long twelve years.
“ Both Mr. Walker and I have visited as many places outside
the two great centres named above as we could afford to do.
“As I have stated in former papers, the lecturers in Australia,
with rare exceptions, are called upon to bear the expenses of
their meetings themselves ; and when the hire of halls, janitors,
&c., the cost of advertising, posting, board, lodging, and travel¬
ling expenses are all required to come out of very low admission
fees to our lectures, it will readily be understood that we were
only able to risk such costly experiments in Sydney or Mel¬
bourne, where we were sure of fine audiences, or in such other
places as a few liberal friends could be found to stand by us as
guarantees against loss. The remedy for this difficulty is of
course most obviously and most justly found in associative
action; but that action must not injustice be allowed, either
here or in any other part of the field, to drift into the exercise of
unrelenting authoritative individualism.
“ One thing is certain: Spirits, the invisible wire-pullers of
Spiritualism, will endure no associative action or authoritative
combinations until those who compose the mass, and assume the
dictation, are thorough Spiritualists in principle and practice, as
well as in mere intellectual belief.
“ In respect to Mr. Slade’s visit to Australia, I have every
reason to believe he effected many conversions, and succeeded
in convincing many persons of the truth of spirit communion.
He excited, of course, the bitter antagonism of those whose
interest or predilections were against him, but their unscrupulous
•and slanderous denunciations were their own best refutation.
Mr. Walker is, I believe, engaged by an association to lecture in
Melbourne for a year; a good move for the public, whatever it
may be for himself. This young gentleman has been indefatigable
in the work of building up and assisting the Progressive Lyceums
both of Melbourne and Sydney, as the flourishing condition of
both institutions testifies.
“ Permit ihe to say in my own behalf that I have added to my
onerous public duties the task of writing and publishing two ’
small volumes, and several tracts, since coming here. The
cumbersome methods of transmission which fetter international
literature prevent my sending on copies for sale, but as I have
written both works in the best interest of bur movement, I shall
certainly bring a sufficient number with me to supply those who
may desire to possess them on my return to the United States.
“ And this brings me to the last and main purpose that now
lies before me. My career as a public exponent of Spiritualism
on the rostrum is to close, as my beloved guides inform me,
even when the powers conferred upon me to move the masses are
at the maximum of their force. My farewell to the rostrum,
then, is to be taken in a brief tour through the United States,
the period of which seems to open up before me some time in
the coming autumn.
“I am even now en route for the last station of my long pil¬
grimage, having finally left Australia for New Zealand, at which
place I am uow located in the beautiful town of Dunedin, and
from whence I send you one of many highly flattering accounts
of my debut last Sunday, also a brief notice of a generous and
beautiful testimonial that was presented to me on the occasion
of my last lecture in Melbourne 
(I “ As I find, to my deeo regret, that Herman Snow and his in-
\| defatigable companion have been obliged to relinquish their
>. bookstore, &c., in San Prancisco, those friends who desire to
)| communicate with me will please address me to the care of Mrs.
| Ada Poye, P.O. Box 1775, San Francisco, Cal. Through the
j friendship of Mrs. Foye, such letters will reach me until I can
j give a more definite address. Cordially commending myself to
«| all who kindly remember me, I remain, yours for the truth,
“Emma. Haudinge-Britten.”
j PRESS OPINIONS ABOUT SPIRITUAL LITERATURE.
From “Public Opinion'' June 28£A.
>| Mesmerism, with Hints eor Beginners. By John James,
h late Captain 90th Infantry. (W. H. Harrison.)—Captain James
(i is an earnest and practical writer, and has taken up the subject
\ | of mesmerism from a thoroughly scientific standpoint. For years
past mesmerists have been themselves to blame for the contempt
) i with which some of their results have been treated by the public,
(I and the fact that their experiments have often been carried on by
l i persons who were not (and could not have been) qualified medical
\| men, has led to a tacit ignoring of some of their statements as
>| being on a par with those of the phrenologist, or the' mere
) i empiric. Tne assumption of Prof. Huxley in a celebrated ques-
(| tion in the evidence of the Royal Commission on Yivisection,
\ I that the mesmeric sleep is a real occurrence, will probably lead to
/| greater attention being paid to the subject than heretofore.
/ j There is no reason why English scientific men should not make
(| the fullest, frankest, and most complete inquiry into the state-
(I ments made by Captain James, based as they are on the testimony
)! of respectable witnesses, and also classified according to a method
/! which leaves nothing to be desired for its precision and accuracy.
< I Certainly he makes out a very strong case, and though the hypo-
(; thesis which Dr. B. W. Richardson, F.R.S., communicated to the
j| Popular Science Review in July 1871, of the existence of a
) j nervous ether may be found to explain some of the facts, and
!j others are susceptible of interpretation on theories proposed long
ago by Dr. R. H.*Collyer, it is clear that the modern “ sensa-
| tional” school of psychologists is impotent to deal with them.
| Still less do they fit m with the “reflex action” theory of Dr.
| Marshall Hall, which, in all its crudity and absurdity, was in
| vogue some thirty years ago. Captain James is doing good,
| sound work; and, sooner or later, physiological students will
| have to face the fact that a number of abnormal nerve-conditions
i are constantly occurring, of which we have no definite knowledge,
< | and can offer no satisfactory theory. Such books as these will
|| tend towards the “rapid and right” progress of the science of
I physiology.
j j From “ The Dundee Daily Advertiser” June 14£A. ’
) I For an hour’s eerie reading before one goes to bed nothing
) i could be better chosen than Mr. Harrison’s first volume of Spirits
) ] before our Dyes. A book of this sort may not be one which
(j timid readers would care to take up about midnight. It is full
11 of ghost stories. These are told with an imperturbable gravity
>| which is apt to produce a feeling akin to belief in a sympathetic
/ i reader. The second volume is to appear at a later date, supple-
( j menting the one before us with further narratives of ghost
| ] appearances. Mr. Harrison has been impressed with the need
ji for a systematic arrangement of facts on which to base his
(! spiritualistic theories. In the first volume he marshals story
(| after story as to the appearance of spirits during the life or at
j i and about the death of the bodies which they are wont to inhabit.
) | In the second volume he promises another inductive array, show-
(i ing that spirits appear long after their separation from the body.
(I . Apart from its spiritualism the book is a very sensible one. The
\\ author sees that his narratives should be well attested, and he
j | endeavours in every case to give authorities. Many of the more
}| wonderful stories are old, and these have, of course, passed
(j beyond our power to verify. For some, however, of the spirit
(| appearances he gives the names of witnesses now living. The
jj narratives occupy most of the volume; and the connecting
M remarks by Mr. Harrison are, while brief, generally to the point,
(j If his induction were admitted to be an induction of facts it
\l would be interesting to go deeper into his theories. A spiritualist
jj will find some satisfaction in his explanation of materialised
)i apparitions and apparitions which are visible only to mesmeric
sensitives. Yarious other theories are clearly put and worked
12
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 4, 1879.
logically into a system. Bat the facts are open to dispute.
Indeed, no amount of testimony can command belief in what
never was the experience of one’s own self or of one’s near
acquaintance.
From u The Civil Service Gazette” June 7 th.
To those who believe in spirits this work may be acceptable.
To those who do not it can possess but little interest.
From “ The Folkestone News,” June IWi.
This volume—the first of two—deals chiefly with cases of
apparitions; most of which are familiar to students of psychic
phenomena. The instances, both old and recent, of the appear¬
ance of the spirits of the living or dying to their friends at a
distance are too well authenticated to admit of dispute; but
whether all the “general conclusions35 which the author draws
from his remarkable array of facts are correct is open to ques¬
tion. His second volume, “ which will be published next autumn,
will deal chiefly with the apparitions of the so-called ‘dead,’
showing that there is no break of continuity in the phenomena of
apparitions in consequence of the death of the body.” Mr.
Harrison writes well and clearly, with true philosophic calmness
and fairness, and occasionally with a fine flow of humour; and
his book will be read with pleasure by many who, though not
agreeing with his theories, yet sympathise with him in his
eloquent protest against the Materialism of the age. “Ma¬
terialism,” he writes, “has at last brought us to the sublime
doctrine of the present orphanage of maruand his future non¬
entity ; it has given us a universe built up of a sea of interstellar
ether, washing the boundaries of infinitely small atoms—a kind
of small shot—governed by natural law; and after conferring
this legacy leaves us without God and without hope, with nothing
to gratify the aspirations of the human heart, nothing to satisfy
either the emotional or the highest intellectual nature. Ideality
has been trampled under foot in its march. At the present time
we have few great poets, and the publishers in Paternoster-row
are inclined to think any of their number mad who attempts to
bring forward a new poet; the book trade will scarcely look at
poetry, because the taste for it has been lost by the bulk of the
public. Men, nowadays, are too much engrossed in the hard,
blind fight for material ascendency, in which they ruthlessly
destroy the finer elements of their own souls, and by habitual
inversion of true affections are ‘ successful’ in life at the cost of
personal spiritual degradation. ... In the daily rush for
material wealth or social precedence, a process of soul-degrada¬
tion goes on, which may be forcibly arrested by demonstration
that life does not end with the grave, and that what to ordinary
minds may be a rational existence on the assumption of there
being no hereafter, becomes the quintessence of folly when the
reality of that future life is brought home to the consciousness.”
Of Mr. Harrison’s humorous treatment of a subject we give, on
another page, a specimen which will specially interest our readers,
as having reference to localities and characters near at hand.
From “The Scotsman” July \st.
It has been said sometime lately that Spiritualism, like
other follies, had had its day, and was dying out. Those
who have imagined this have certainly imagined a vain
thing. The number of Spiritualists may not be much greater
than it was a few years ago, but their activity is certainly no less,
and their credulity is far more. The wonderful stories which are
put forward by men who < otherwise appear sensible would
astonish most people. But in proportion as their books are read
and their manifestations are studied, the inclination becomes
stronger to cease to wonder at anything they do or say. One of
their number is a Mr. W. H. Harrison, who has recently issued
the first volume of a work which he calls Spirits Before Our Eyes.
Mr. Harrison is pugnacious. He does not merely stand upon
the defensive; he carries the war into the camp of the incredulous,
and declares that they are really the foolish people. There is a good
deal of smartness in the introductory chapter of his book, and if
he had anything with which to back it up there might be a fair
amount of amusement derivable from the work. ‘As the case
stands, however, the volume is a melancholy instance of misplaced
and misdirected inquiry. Mr. Harrison starts with the declara¬
tion that the stories of apparitions that he is going to tell are
all vouched upon authority which is unimpeachable, and'which
nobody would think of impeaching. The truth is, there is not
a single story in the book, so far as we have been able to
discover, that any one would dream of accepting as proved. The
most extraordinary statements are made upon the vaguest
evidence, and Mr. Harrison proceeds to theories from the cases
stated as if they were beyond all manner of doubt. Whether
there be anything in the question of what some investigators call
“ psychic force ” it is needless to inquire now. All it is necessary
to say about Mr. Harrison’s book is,.that it is a volume which is
much more likely to frighten foolish young people than to con¬
vince sensible men and women.
A NOVELTY IN PSYCHOGRAPHY.
Mr. John Wetherbee writes thus to The Banner of
Light, June 14th :—
“I attended, June 9th, a very unique and satisfactory
stance given by Mr. W. H. Powell, late from Phila¬
delphia, who is now giving public manifestations every
evening for a short time at No. 8, Davis-street; and
any Spiritualist, or hospitably-disposed seeker after
truth, will be well pleased by paying Mr. Powell a visit.
His phase of mediumship is very novel, requiring no
conditions, and is done in the light.
“ It is a genuine manifestation, by which we mean
done by some intelligent, invisible power, and by some
law not yet understood, claimed to be spiritual; and I
do not object to the claim.
“I have heard of and seen independent slate-writing,
and where I consider it a genuine and marvellous
spirit manifestation. But this young man, when en¬
tranced, seems to be controlled by an Indian, and takes a
clean slate and writes any intelligent communication on
it with his index finger. Any one or all can see the
whole operation, and can be sure that there is no
pencil and no substance on or in his finger, and every¬
thing in connection can be scrutinised, and the ob¬
servers know it to be as it appears. This writing is not
confined to his own finger; the power runs through
any person’s finger he chooses to use, as the power of
a magnet runs through a nail or a needle to the next,
all becoming magnetic. He takes a person’s finger,
holding it as he would a pencil, and writes just the
same as he would with his own finger. This is very
satisfactory, for the said person can know and be
doubly sure that he has no writing attachment to his
own digit. The writing is plain, made with very little
or no noise, as if the substance that marked the words
was soft like a pointed piece of chalk. But, under¬
stand me, there is no substance; a glove on a per¬
son’s finger makes no difference—it writes just the same;
and when his hand was tied up in a handkerchief, his
finger thus protected wrote just as well.”
— —— 
“ What class of spirits haunt houses ? ” is the subject of Mr.
G. W. Fletcher’s lecture next Sunday evening, at Steinway Hall.
Mr. Ernest Tietkins will sing.
The Prevalence oe Suicide in Different Countries.—
The Echo draws attention to an interesting body of figures just
collected by an eminent French statist on this subject. It ap¬
pears that the Danes through a series of years exhibited the
largest average of self-slaughter; while their neighbours of
Norway, breathing a kindred climate, are only seventh on the
list. The second place is held, as has generally been the case,
by France, in which the totals of such deaths fail short of 5,000
annually—one-half due to hanging, one-fourth to drowning; but
among women, in a majority of instances, through inhaling the
fumes of charcoal. Returning to the order of nationalities, the
Swiss, curiously enough, rank next to the French, and, after
them, the people of Baden, the Prussians, and the Austrians in
succession. These last are followed by the Belgians, after whom
come the English. The crime is a rare one in Spain, and not a
common one in Italy; but the country in which it is most rare is
Ireland.
July 4, 1879.
"DRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIA-
J > TION OF SPIEITUALISTS, 38, Great Eussell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred, members, has public offices, a reading
room and Jibrary, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30. daily Saturdays 2 p.m. to
6 p.m.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman EOAD, Brixton.
The object of the Society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well-known mediums, and are entitled to the use of
books on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c.,
apply to— H. E. FLANGES, Hon. Sec.
BRITISH! MUSEUM LECTURES.—
Dr. OAETEE BLAKE will Lecture in the
Galleries of Natural History and. Antiquities, on
Monday, July 7th, Wednesday, July 9th, Friday,
July 11th, and Monday, July 14th, from 11 to 1 o’clock.
Tickets 2s. 6d. each Lecture, or 7s. 6d. for the Course.
Address Dr. GAETEE BLAKE, 28, East-street, Queen’s-
square, W.O.
•ft/TRS. WELDON’S WEDNESDAY.
_LVJL EEOITALS. Mrs. Weldon gives an Evening’s
entertainment weekly, at ‘Tavistock House, her re-'
sidence (formerly Charles Dickens’). The programme
is varied by a short Lecture, sacred and romantic;
serious and nursery songs by Gounod, Urich, and Mrs.
Weldon. Tickets to be had on application free. A
collection is made for Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage,
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London.
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine, economy for all vatieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers Tes ; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, ho
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish
which exist as to the future life arise from the constant
assumption that the everlasting1 punishment of sin is
identical with the everlasting existence of sinners.
Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever will be eter-
. nally punished; torment and misery are everlastingly
inseparable from wrong-doing; arid precisely because
inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or later,
cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility
of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS EROM THE INNER LITE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
PART I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. jPhe Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial ,of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gur.da—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Eeconciliation—XII. Hope
for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The
Eagle of Freedom — XV. Mistress Glenare — XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIII.
My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX. Life—
XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”—XXIII. Words o’
Cheer— XXIV. Kesurrexi—XXV. The Prophecy of
Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or
Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX.
The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same authoress, a companion volume,
price 5s. 6d.,
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
TVEYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
JLAj psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Eue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
M. Leymarie.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Price 3s. Gd. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges. Post
free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems written
by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the public
libraries, and to present or send to those who are un¬
acquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much about
the religious aspect of Spiritualism, given through the
writing mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of
the most refined and elegant works ever printed in
connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ 01 Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
Eichmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Eichmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced: The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind. Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Wel¬
don (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. ———.
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Eesurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XHI.—Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Eainham. By Lucia C.
Stone.
. XXL—A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII.—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Eev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kis-
lingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The. Eelation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Siance in the Sunshine. By the Eev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Eev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Wotherington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Eelation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in
Belation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
■ Gregory.-
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Eussell Wallace,
F.E.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price 5s. Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new Book by
“M.A (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY ; OR DIRECT
SPIRIT WRITING.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C,
iii
Post Free. Price Five Shillings, Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY
BY EPES SAEGENT. f
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the
Past—Psychics—Mr. A. E. Wallace on Spirits—Tan¬
gible Apparitions — The Materialisation of Spirits
through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers,
D. D. Hume, and Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms,
Drapery and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—
Emerson—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immor¬
tality.
Chapter III.—^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia,
N.Y., and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Wit¬
nesses—Mediumship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and
Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—Johp King.
Chapter IV. —Materialisations in England—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr.
Herne—Experiments—Testimony of Various Y7i't-
nesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments
by Mr. William Crookes, F.E.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—
The Dialectical Society of London—Theory of Psychic
Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two
Substances ? — Immateriality — Ancient Belief in
Spirits—Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Des¬
cartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer — Swedenborg —
Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of S.
C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit—The Senses
—^Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegehan
Doctrine of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship - Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. 0. F. Varley, Mr. Wm.
Crookes, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr.
J. C. Luxmore, Mrs. Eoss-Church, Miss Kislingbury—
Conclusive Experiments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony
of Dr. C. Eane, Mr. B. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby
Mrs. A. A. Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Eev. S. Watson, and
Eev. E. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Mediun-
ship of the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness
of Seership — Swedenborg — Kardec — Ohaseray —
Cabanis — Coleridge — Bacon — Luther — Calvin —
Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—-Materialisation of Clothing
and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—-Eolations of Spiritualism to Belief
in God—Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—
Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Eelations of Spiritualism to Morality
—The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality—
Sin Punishes Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings
of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old
Bevelations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—
Humboldt—Newman — Kant —Strauss—Leon Case—■
Indifference to Life — Personal Experiences — The
Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to Spiritualism—The
Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe—James Martineau—
- Voysey—Sentiment must Yield to Facts. - -
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit
Photographs and Materialisations—The Facts and
Inferences—Concluding Beflections.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
By F. J. TheobaIiD. Second Edition, enlarged.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE
COMPAEED WITH MODEEN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from
Spiritualism with the idea that it is unchristian and
unscriptural. It shows (we thiuk successfully) that
every form of mediumship, now so familiar to Spirit¬
ualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of identical
experiences. Also
HEAVEN OPENED.
Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The two bound in one, Is.
These books, consisting of messages given by
writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth,
and their group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and
sorrowing parents.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VABIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful
information for those who hold, or who are about to hold,
spirit circles in their own homes Published at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for l^d.; or six copies post free for Gd.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 4, 1879.
rpiHE ALPHA.; or, the First Principle
L of the Human Mind; a Bevelation, but no
Mystery. With Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait
of the Author, E. N. Bennys. 370 pages, pyice 3s. 6d.
‘‘We can cail to mind few books fit to be its fellows.”
—Athenseum.
“ It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, ;and
logic than any work we have ever read; it is a new
revelation, and one of the most remarkable productions
ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also, just published, with engraving of the Author,
470 pages, price 3s. 6d.
THE EELIGION OP LIFE, as exemp¬
lified by Jesus Christ. A series of Lectures by
the Author of “ Alpha.”
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C
Now ready, 48 pp. Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS FOE JULY, 1879.
The Spiritual Pilgrim ; by “ M. A.” (Oxon)—Voices
from the Ages, The Pimander; by P. Davidson—The
Story of Him who wore the Wreath; by A. M. Howitt
Watts—The Attitude of the Religious World towards
Modem Spiritualism ; by John S. Farmer—The Phila¬
delphian Society; by J. W. F.—The Rev. J. Baldwin
Brown on the Resurrection ; by J. S. F.—“ Spiritual¬
istic Sanity.’’—The Music of the Spheres an inspiration;
by M. C. T. Q-.—Notes and Gleanings: Cardinal New-,
man and the Spiritual Body; Why do Mediums use
Great Names? The Spiritual in Animals ; The Rise
arid Growth of the Brahmo-Somaj; Leibnitz on
Psychomety; What is the Use of Spiritualism ?—
Spiritual Lyrics, the Cure of Care; by T. S.
London : E. W. ALLEN, Ave Maria Lane.
GLAsaow: H. NISBET <fc Co., Ropework Lane.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8 70.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Tfirin, and
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for
the Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
J The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
[ One of the best books published in connection with
Modern Spiritualism for many years, and a standard
work on the subject. The author has studied the
tfacts and phenomena for a lengthened period, and deals
Bn an intelligent manner with the problems and diffi¬
culties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d, per
jvolume.
I The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OK
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
jBy the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
] This second edition is, for its quality and size, the
cheapest large work ever published in this country in
{connection with Spiritualism. Price fis., or 6s. Gd.
post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
fpHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
1 SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
j MORAL, AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
I G. F. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second
Gold Medals of the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 83, British
Museum-street, London, W.C.
T) ESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA
A v OF SPIRITUALISM, by William Crookes,
F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, British Museum-street, London,
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The MominS
Post, Graphic, Court Journal, and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the
Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.
—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man,—6. The
Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shacabac was
Photographed. (A Letter from Hadji L. Shacabac, a
gentleman who visited London on business connected
with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram,
Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at Constan¬
tinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gar¬
dener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Pho¬
tographer.—15. How to Double the Utility of the
Printing Press.—1G. The Song of the Mother-in-Law.
—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “Poor Old Joe!”—19. The
Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—21.
A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “ Under the Limes."
—24 The Angel of Silence.
PART 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
26. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Recep¬
tion at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s
Lament. —29. The July Bug.— 30. The Converted
Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
hook in a review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic
literature which houestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; consequently
any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a genuine
vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who arenot too
stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances ; on
the contrary, some of his poems touch 6n the deepest
and most sacred feelings of our common humanity.
. . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his ad¬
ventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is
quite one of the funniest things that has been* pub¬
lished for years. . . . The book contains quite
enough to ensure it a welcome from which its tasteful
appearance will not detract.” The Morning Post says
of The Wobble}aw BaMadsNo one can help laughing
at them,’’ and it says that the rhymes are pitched in
“ something like the same key as The Bon Gaultier
Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably suc¬
cessful result,”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published, and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street). Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire, which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; hut one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
Le JOURNAL DU MAGNETISME,”
published every week under the editorship of
Mods. H. Durville. Subscription, France, post free
12 francs a year. Within the postal union, 14 francs.
Bureau: 77, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Paris,
France. .
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of
Thomas Lake Harris. Those poems, given while Mr.
Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O.
A T MRS. PARKER’S, 3, BLOOMS-
JA BURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON, W.O., a Philosophical and Developing
Circle is being formed. Those wishing to join will
please send in their names. Terms on application.
Mrs. Parker’s healing power is rapidly developing
into clairvoyance; she is replying to sealed questions
when conditions favour, Office hours from 1? to 5
o’clock.
WORKS by ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS*
The 11 Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . ,76
The Teacher. „ II. „ ..76
The Seer. „ HI. „ ..76
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, . .76
The Thinker. B V. „ ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . t 7 6
Approaching Crisis ; or. Truth v. Theology . 5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the *
People .   7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual , .20
Death and the After-Life . . . , .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . • .36
Harbinger of Health . . ... .76
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . 3 6
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia ; Containing Harmonial Answers , 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . ... 8 0
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves . 7 0
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . 5 0
Tale of a Physician; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .'26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .3 0-
Morning Lectures  7 6
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, British
Museum-street, London, W.O. 
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBEOK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBEOK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Ohancery-lane.
ESTABLISHED 1851,
BIRKBECK BAN K.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and Interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping Accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand,
n. The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purehasa
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFf, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Ohancery-lane.
CONTENTS,
A Trance Case at the London Hospital  l
A Modern Oommination   1
Spiritualism and Morals     2
What Truth is there in Astrology ?     2
William Lloyd Garrison. By Mary F. Davis   3
Mrs. Weldon and Figaro   4
Form Jftmifestations. By Edward Applegarth ... 4
Faith Versus Works  | 5
Reduction of Postage of The Spiritualist to Foreign
Readers      6
Was it a Death Warning?       6
Mr. Eglinton’s Proposed Visit to India   6
The Psychological Experiences- of Elijah the
Second  I    6
The First Severe Surgical Operation performed
in England under Mesmeric Influence. By
Captain John James    7
“Who Wrote Shakespeare’s Plays?” By Henry
G. Atkinson, F.G.S,, Author of Letters to Miss
Martineau        8
Remarkable Pictures Produced by Spirits. Num- ,
ber One        9
Selling the Affections     10
Correspondence:—Visitors at 38, Great Russell-
street—Mrs. Hardinge-Britten’s Work   10
Press Opinions about Spiritual Literature 
A Novelty in Psychography     12
Paragraphs—A Stance at Dalston, 2; A Dream
Fulfilled after Thirty Years, 3; Feminine
Perseverance, 3; Worshipping the Spirits
of Ancestors, 5; Shepherd Tom, 9; Crema¬
tion, 10; The Prevalence of Suicide in
Different Countries    12
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge and Co.,
at the Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and pub¬
lished by W. H. Harrison, 33, British Museum-
street, London, W,C,
