Beg:pt75*d as a Kr KvfPAriB.
SK® joUS}]^®^ f^YdSo^oG^idS^ ^di^>fd^.
&\i£ ©Ibxsf Itetosppr mmiAir foxflj Spntwalxsm m $xml §ntem,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON: u, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque 246, Boule
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuvedes Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LlfiGE : 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : “Banner of Light” Office, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON: No. 10x0, Seventh-street.
No. 339. (Yol. XIV.—No. 8.) LONDON : FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents
On Thought-Reading. By Edward W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law, President of the Psychological Society of Great
Britain... ... ... -   ... ...  85
Cape Jask   -  ' ... ... ... 89
Dr. Halloek’s Last Letter Home   90
The National Association of Spiritualists 90
Mr. Tyerman in England ...    90
Henry Slade in Australia:—Professor Baldwin and Dr.
Slade       91
Traces of Law in the Appearances of Spirits, Embodied and
Unembodied. By W. Stainton Moses, M.A 92
Correspondence:—Mediumship and Medicine—A Request
—Strange Assertions through Mediumship—Spiritual
Phenomena in Birmingham 94
Spiritualism in the Roman Catholic Church 96
Sorrow. By Dollie Maitland. (Poetry.)  ... ... 96
Paragraphs:—Was George Combe a Medium? 88; Public
Tests, 89; A Spirit Message, 90; Is it a True Pro¬
phetic I)ream? 95
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record o/ the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism,
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
J- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica-
ions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Pale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeid (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. O. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer¬
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the -Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fahyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, .F.S.A*.; Mrs. S. 0. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.RI., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places:—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Oapucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Oorso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, RusseU-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: j), Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago : Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritucuist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
T3 APHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
JLVi AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, <fcc.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS.
The Offices of the Association will be open between the
hours of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except
Saturday, when they will be open between the hours of 2 p.m.
and 6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR FEBRUARY, 1879.
Friday, 14fA,'and every succeeding Friday.—Experi¬
mental Research Committee at 6.30.
Monday, nth,.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kisling-
bury's paper—“Apparitions of the
Living,” to be opened by Rev. W. Stainton
Moses, M.A.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
RESEARCH COMMITTEE.
TO MEDIUMS:
This Committee, having in their charge the “ Weighing
Apparatus ” presented to the Association by Mr. C. Blackburn
for the purpose of obtaining absolute evidence of certain phe¬
nomena occurring in the presence of “physical” mediums,
invite such mediums, public or private, to communicate with
them with a view to experiments with the apparatus in
question. Desmond G. Fitzoerald,
(Chairman of Committee).
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman-road, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
The Religion of Spiritualism.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Will LECTURE
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
At the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer Street, W.
Admission Free.
Lecture begins at 7.30. Doors closed at 7.45.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following Engagements:—Hastings, Gensing Hall,
Afternoon and Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial
Society, February 4. Plymouth Mechanics' Institute, February
12 (second time this season). Redruth Institution, February
13. Truro Institution, February 14 (second time this season).
Leamington Institute, February 25. Finchley (Church end),
February 27. Croydon Literary Institution, March 6 (second
time). Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-
street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
March 12th, April 9th, May 14th, June 11th. Tickets 5s., 3s.,
2s., and Is.
N.B.—The Second Recitation of the Series will be given on
Friday, February 28, instead of Ash Wednesday, February 26.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.'
No. 4. January. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—
I.—Is Immortality a Delusion ? By Epes Sargent.
II.—Sister Celeste. By J. C. Earle.
III. —Spiritual Philosophy in Relation to Death and Spirit Life.
By Rev. J. Page Hopps.
IV. —Inspiration. No. 2. By Mrs. De Morgan.
V.—Reminiscences of George Thompson. By his Daughter,
Mrs. Nosworthy,
VI.—Zetalethes, the Truthseeker. By Miss Greenfield.
VII.—The Mound-Builders. By William Denton.
VIII.—Montanism.
Materialistic Mysticism—A Geologist’s Confession—The Seat
of Evil
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O
A YOUNG GENTLEMAN will be glad of any
office, manuscript, or literary employment. Highest
references. Address A. B. C., Sherborne Lodge, Tracey-street,
Kennington-road, London.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W,
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co. London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kislingbury’s Paper.
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mr. Calder, “ The New Era.”
No. 2.”
April 7.—Mr. Morell Theobald, “Experiences in the Home
April 21.—
May5.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., “Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
May. 19.) These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., “ Review of the Session.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can lie
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.'W.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS^
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & CO.
Show Rooms:—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, f.c.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT.”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, <fcc., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
J. TURNER,
LOCKSMITH, BELLHANGER, AND GASFITTER,
Stove and Range Maker,
1, HIGH STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Every description of Patent Close Fire Kitcheners repaired
and fixed.
Hot Water, Steam, and Bath Fittings.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVEN SCBOFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1. Bernard-villas, TTnper Norwood.
Pitz-C-erald, Mrs.. 19, CambTiflge.gtreet) Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G-> M.s.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Honywood. Mrs.. 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
■Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, StanhoneTempleman.M.D., Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
mad, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Grfeat Cumherland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belner.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addise.ombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F A., 24, St Ann s-sauare. Manchester.
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S.. Ya'e of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John. 10. Punkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar.” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road. Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 5, Portmau-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Eflmands, T. H . 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton. R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Olendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill. Kent.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, West.bourne-square, W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. Bart, Lamport-hail, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfield, Wimbledon. S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road. Liverpool.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, TJttoxeter-road. Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. St air ton. M.A., Hniversitv College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, ‘Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newton, W„ 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson. C.. 15. Harnur-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3. B1 andford-square, N.W.
Reimers. Christian, 47, Mornington-mad Regent’s-park.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford
Theobald, Morell. 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath. S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J-, 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh. 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
'White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leedt
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-souare, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1. The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W, Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Resident Secretary.'
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, hex Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq ., Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, TJ.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Dmmmond-slreet, Carlton, Melbourne
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 6, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy 1,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
TJ.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de TEurope,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelies.
Lieut -Col. P. Jacoby, 11 ,Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs. Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan. Esq., 30, Upper Gloueester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
Feb. 21, 1879.
A. R.. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Wamrpn Edge, Duppas-hiU,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, O.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epp-jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Haliock, 64, Denhigh-street, Belgra*ve-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street. Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New Yoi’k,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth; Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff. ■
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola.. Cervantes 34,28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Pi’esi-
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
OYERNMENT PROSECUTIONS FOR
7T MEDICAL HERESY: a Verbatim Report of the Case
“ Regina v. Tebb.” Dedicated to the Board of St. Pancras
Guardians, London. With letters from the Right Hon. W. E.
Gladstone, M.P., the Right Hon. John Bright, M.P., and others.
Forty pp., Price 2d., or Is. 9d. per dozen, or 12s. per 100. This
pamphlet should be circulated largely during elections of
Guardians and Members of Parliament. Published by Edward
W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet.
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small Svo, price 3s. Gd. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preiace describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part 1
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—Vlfl.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part IL
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XU. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXI. Love.—XXII. “ For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer.—XXIV. Resurrexi XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. Gd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,-
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
01, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
1V/FDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
-IvJeL At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 178, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o’clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private sconces attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
MRS. M. G. PARKER, MESMERIC
HEALER and DEVELOPING MEDIUM, 66, War-
wick-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Franklin
gives Seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-square,
from 2 to 5, every day except Sunday, and every evening from
8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engagements can be made
by letter sent to the above address.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vemon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5. Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday evenings, office hours, owing to press of business,
extended to nine o'clock.
A NNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN
JTjL ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15 ih of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Hardee, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Socitti
Anonyms, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 60., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
t By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE, COM
PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It shows
(we think successfully) that every form of mediumship, now so
familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of
identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2,6d. each. The
two bound in one, Is.—These books, consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrowing
parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer.St. James’s-street; andMr.Boughton, St. George’s-road.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science,
price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mdtze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
Brighton.—miss wood, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. — Terms on
application.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.-TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3 per week
each ; or. for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Cos-
sonnerie. Paris.
Ko. 339.—Volume Fourteen; Number Fiqht.
LONDON. FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 21st, 1879.
ON THOUGHT-READING-.0
BY EDWARD W. COX, SERJEANT-AT-LAW, PRESIDENT OF THE PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN,
It is the misfortune of psychology that the greater portion
of the names given to its phenomena are terms that express
some foregone conclusion. It is a too common error in all
science. Scientific names should express nothing but the
fact. They should studiously avoid anything that, however
remotely, appears to assign a cause for, or the source of the
fact.
Such a term is thought-reading. It implies that one
mind reads something that is in another mind. The term is
misleading. It is understood often by those who use it,
and always by those to whom it is addressed, aS being
identical with reading a book or viewing a picture. The
common conception of u thought-reading ” is that thoughts
are things—words printed somehow upon the mind or brain
—which the person having the faculty of thought-reading
peruses, precisely as he would read a book; or that it is a
picture positively painted upon one mind and actually viewed
by the other mind.
With such a name and such conceptions of the thing, it is
not surprising that the fact itself should be received with
incredulity as wholly inconsistent with what we know of
brain structure and mental action. Thoughts are not written
upon the brain, and if they were so written, the eye of
another person could not read them there. Even the over¬
whelming evidence of the existence of the phenomenon has
not sufficed to remove the prejudice caused by the unfortunate
name inflicted upon it. At some risk, I prefer to throw
aside that familiar but misleading name, and to substitute
for it one that precisely expresses the fact, without appearing
to affirm the cause or source of the fact, or the means by
which it is produced. I, therefore, adopt the descriptive but
not prejudging title of mental sympathy and communion, as
being the mental action intended to be designated, whatever
may be the true explanation of it.
The fact is that, under certain unknown conditions, one
mind can communicate ideas to another mind through some
other medium than the bodily senses. Emotions can be
communicated in like manner. Sympathy of emotion
between minds has been recognised long ago, not only by
poets but by philosophers. The fiercer passions were known
to be contagious. The contagious influence of the gentler
emotions was acknowledged under the name of sympathy.
But so far as my own researches have gone I have found no
endeavour to trace the mental or physical process by which
this phenomenon is produced. By many it is assumed to
be excited only by some outward expression of the emotion
in face, form, or voice which, being perceived by the senses
of the other party, excites in him the corresponding passion
or emotion by simple suggestion. But a larger survey of
the phenomena contradicts this conclusion. It is within the
experience of all careful observers that sympathies are often
excited without a visible or audible sign. A striking in¬
stance of this is shown in panic. A sudden fear seizes on a
multitude. It may be wholly without cause, or if there be
a cause it is known only to a few. Nevertheless it is felt by
all, being communicated so instantaneously as to appear
simultaneous. Ask why they fly, nine out of ten will
answer, (i I do not know ; I felt an ungovernable terror; I |
lost self-control ; I rushed on I cared not where, nor how,
nor why.” And this sympathy seems to be multiplied by j
the number of communicating minds. A fear that would |
not turn one man pale will make half-a-dozen men tremble j
and put a hundred men to flight. The influence of sympa- j
thetic emotion upon public assemblies is too familiar to need j
description. It is exhibited in the remarkable phenomena j
I of that which has been so absurdly called electro-biology.
| It is seen in natural somnambulism and its allied abnormal
j conditions, treated of in a later chapter. But while sym-
(| pathy of mind is undisputed in relation to emotions, there
I has .been no distinct recognition of a similar community of
| ideas.
| Yet does it exist. There are few who could not tell of its
I i frequent occurrence within their own experience. Who has
| not many times found some thought straying into his mind
II apparently without a cause and associated with no previous
) | thoughts (perhaps on a theme long forgotten), and the friend
| by his side has been thinking the same thought? The
< | saying “ Talk of the devil and you see his horns” is the em-
| bodiment of a fact so common as to have become a proverb.
(I A person of whose very whereabouts you are ignorant, and
I who had not “ been in your mind” for years, suddenly comes
| into your thoughts without any perceptible cause, and pre-
! sently he appears. Such an instance occurred lately within
| my own knowledge. A near relative had heard nothing of
| an old schoolfellow for fifteen years, did not even know if
i she was living, nor had that friend of long ago been once in
| her thoughts. At breakfast she said, u It is very odd, I
] | have been thinking all the morning of Mrs. D . I had
| quite forgotten her.” That very day’s post brought a letter
(| from the long-forgotten friend. This is surely something
j more than a coincidence. But similar cases scarcely less
| striking in their circumstances are continually occurring to
! all of us.
| I venture to suggest if something like the same pheno-
| menon may not exist in the lower animals ? Is it certain
i that they do not communicate thus ? All who have ob-
| servantly noted their ways agree that they do in some un-
! known manner exchange ideas as well as sympathise with
I emotions. All bird communities that flock together, such
I as rooks, starlings, plovers, and the like, have leaders, and
5 i obey commands that certainly are not conveyed by the voice.
; Ants and bees silently carry to their fellows notice where
i rich spoil is to be obtained. Dogs are often seen to meet,
put their heads together, and then depart on a common
( expedition of plunder. I have a pair of ponies who silently
say to each other as plainly as by words, u Faster,”
i “Slower.” Observe any of our domestic animals. Can you
doubt that they possess some faculty that performs for them
some such process for communication of ideas and thoughts
as speech does for us ? Certainly their converse is neither
|! by sounds nor by signs. May it not be by that communion
[ | of mind which we find to exist among ourselves, and which,
> | abnormal now and of infrequent occurrence, may once have
• j been the means of intercommunication with ourselves also ?
[| It is consistent with the theory of evolution. Is what is so
; | absurdly called “ Thought-reading ” a survival from a time
' | when it was with us—as it is now with the lower animals—
J the sole means of mental communication?
This is, however, merely a suggestion thrown out to the
| thoughtful, for as yet it is little more than a reasonable and
| probable conjecture.
I am referring strictly to that sympathy and communion
| between minds which are found in the common intercourse
| of the world under purely normal conditions, and which
| probably occur very much more frequently than our con-
! sciousness informs us. We are, in truth, quite ignorant how
| ideas and emotions come into the mind. It may well be
I that many, if not most of them are prompted by the
i imperceptible influences of other minds about us. You
i suddenly think of something because my thought has sug-
| gested your thought. If, when three or four persons are
i together, what is passing at the same moment in each mind
i could be revealed on the instant, doubtless some curious and
I instructive discoveries of simultaneous ideas would prove
* A paper read at a recent meeting of the Psychological Society
86
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 21, 1879.
the fact that there is between these minds an unconscious j (
communion and sympathy. 1 (
No supernatural power need be invoked to explain this ;
phenomenon. Physiology will assist psychology to a solu- j |
tion of the problem. The brain is the material—that is the |
molecular—organ by which the operations called mental are i |
conducted. This brain is constructed of a countless multi- |
titude of fibres, so fine that many millions of them are j
contained within the compass of a sixpence. These fibres j
are instruments of infinite and inconceivable delicacy, j
They vibrate to waves of the atmosphere and respond to j
vibrations of other brain fibres that are imperceptible to any |
sense. Even the vastly coarser strings of a harp take up j
waves of the atmosphere that our senses do not perceive, |
and echo the sound made by other harp-strings in motion. |
But the atmosphere is not the only medium for trans- j
mitting motion. Itself floats in a more pervading fluid j
which physicists have agreed to call “ the ether.” Any j
person who has witnessed the experiments of Professor j
Tyndall with sensitive flames, showing how the atmosphere j j
in a large room cannot be stirred so slightly that the flame j
will not betray the motion, will readily understand how the j
vibration of the finest brain fibre may be communicated to I
other brain fibres. The telephone is a still more startling !
illustration of the multitudinous atmospheric waves imper- [ j
ceptible to our very obtuse senses, which can perceive only j j
the smallest fraction of the things and motions that sur- j j
round us. But infinitely more delicate must be the waves j
of the ether. They must penetrate the most compact j
substance—solidity being only a human conception, not a |
fact in nature. Brain action is brain motion. When any j |
mental act is done, the fibres of the brain are set in motion, j
and of these motions the conscious self takes cognisance, j
The psychological conclusion from this physiological fact j j
will be at once apparent. An idea or thought in my mind j
is attended with certain molecular movements of certain j
fibres in my brain. The motion of those fibres in my brain j!
is communicated by ether waves to the corresponding fibres j
in your brain, setting up in them a similar motion, precisely j j
as the harp that is played upon evokes the same tone from j I
the strings of the untouched harp. Those motions of my | |
brain impart to your brain identical impressions, and con- j
sequently we think and feel in unison—not, of course, always i
in concert, but in the same direction. i
These impulses communicated from brain to brain are not |
perceived at all times, because we are constructed to be con- j
scious of one impression only at one instant of time, and for J
the most part consciousness is engaged in taking cognisance
of some other more vivid impressions. Moreover, some
brains are less sensitive than others—have coarser fibres— j
and therefore are more slow to catch the finer impulses. j
Let it be understood that this explanation is presented to I
society not as the assertion of a proved fact, but merely as a | j
suggestion of the manner in which the undoubted pheno- j j
mena of mental communion and sympathy might be accom- i j
plished by purely natural means, without attributing them | |
to the supernatural, the miraculous, or the spiritual. S I
That it has a distinct existence as a distinct mental or |
psychological faculty, is proved abundantly by the numerous j
cases reported in the medical journals, and recorded by j
eminent physicians of all countries, attesting an extraordinary | |
power of perception in patients suffering from cerebral or j j
nervous excitement. A few of the multitude so recorded ! j
will suffice to satisfy society that like cases, occurring in j j
other abnormal conditions, are not necessarily untrue because j j
they are strange, and because physiology cannot at once j] |
explain them. j j
A great service will be done to science if the abundant j j
proofs of natural exhibition of the phenomena should incline j
the student not summarily to dismiss, as being delusions or j j
frauds, the like phenomena when produced artificially.
As already stated, the mechanism of man is constructed j! j
for the support of his being in this molecular world, j ] j
It works in compliance with certain conditions imposed ! | j
upon it by the physical laws governing that world. The j j
individual whose mechanism is in its normal state can receive 11 j
intelligence from the external world only through the media j j j
of the senses. He can perceive nothing of whose presence j j j
and qualities the senses do not inform him. The eye conveys 1 ‘1
I forms and colours, the ear sounds. But in certain conditions
| of the organism, when the machine is more or less disordered,
i and its parts thrown “ out of gear,” perception by the self
I appears to occur directly, without the intervention of the
senses. The evidence of this phenomenon is overwhelming.
No fact in science is supported by a larger array of proofs.
Ingenuity has exhausted itself in endeavours to find other
explanations of these phenomena. But the proofs are too
many and too well attested by competent observers to be
accounted for upon any theory of imposture or delusion.
If the cases reported in the medical journals and by
| qualified observers were collected, they would fill many
volumes. Restricted space compels the selection of a few,
! gathered from the multitude that offer themselves to the
{ student of psychology.
Considered in its physiological as in its psychological
aspect, two differing explanations have been suggested for
scientific inquiry.
The physiological explanation is the same as that offered
in explanation of somewhat similar phenomena occurring in
somnambulism.
The psychological process may be suggested as thus. If
the conscious self be an entity distinct from the body, which
is merely the material mechanism for communication
between the self and the material world, it is a reasonable
| assumption that, when released from the conditions of its
| world life, it will exist under the altered conditions of a
changed stage of being. Whatever the form in that new
existence, its structure will certainly be something other than
molecular, and therefore subject to such new conditions as
may be demanded by a new form of atomic structure. It is
not in itself improbable that, in this stage of being, in
certain abnormal states of the mechanism, the relationship
between the component parts of the triune structure—body,
mind, soul — may sometimes be so dislocated that the
> conscious self can have a partial release from the condi-
( tions imposed by the material mechanism, and obtain percep¬
tions by impressions directly made. Certainly it will be so
| under the conditions of a new state of being, which is not a
| process of transformation, as is the vulgar notion, but of
| evolution, as is the scientific view of the scheme of creation.
| It this be a reasonable suggestion, it is not unreasonable to
| ascribe the proved facts of mental communion of ideas and
I of supersensuous perception to a like direct perception by the
I conscious self without the interposition of any sense.
The following case was reported to me by a surgeon of the
Royal Artillery. It occurred some years ago.
( A party of children, sons and daughters of the officers of artillery
[ stationed at Woolwich, were playing in the garden. Suddenly a little
(! girl screamed, and stood staring with an aspect of terror at a willow
(] tree there. Her companions gathered round, asking what ailed her.
|! “ Oh!” she said, “ there—there. Don’t you see ? There’s papa lying
j | on the ground, and the blood running from a big wound.” All assured
(i her that they could see nothing of the kind. But she persisted,
) ] describing the wound and the position of the body, still expressing her
] | surprise that they did not see what she saw so plainly. Two of her
(j companions were daughters of my informant (one of the surgeons of the
(j regiment), whose house adjoined the garden. They called their father,
| who at once came to the spot. He found the child in a state of extreme
[ | terror and agony, took her into his house, assuring her that it was only
j “ a fancy,” and having given her restoratives, sent her home. The
j j incident was treated by all as being what the doctor had called it, and
j i no more was thought of it. News from India, where the child’s father
j | was stationed, was in those days slow in coming. But the arrival of
( | the mail in due course brought the information that the father of the
| | child had been killed by a shot, and died under a tree. Making allow-
j 1 ance for difference in the counting of time, it was found to have been
j | about the moment when the daughter had the vision at Woolwich.
| This case is of exceptional value, inasmuch as it occurred
| in the presence of a large party, from two of whom I re-
1 ceived it, and was vouched to me by the medical man who
| heard the assertion of the child and treated it as a waking
| dream.
As nothing was seen by her companions, it was clearly not
j a ghost story. It admits of explanation as a case either of
| supersensuous perception or of mental communion. The
11 child was (as in so many other instances of which the
} | evidence is overwhelming) in an abnormal condition. The
I conscious self had power of perception by some other means
| than the ordinary machinery of the senses. She perceived
I her father himself, as he was, and not his ghost. To what
i i extent mental communion and sympathy may operate in the
Feb. 21, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
87
directing of such a perceptive power, or if it may not be the
sole agent, is a question that well deserves consideration.
A gentleman "of my acquaintance has, from childhood,
possessed this faculty in a very singular form. Deaths of
relatives are known to him, however distant they may be.
These are not, as are so many of such cases of supposed
clairvoyance, impressions remembered after the event or
suggested by previous knowledge of illness. He names at
the moment the impression upon his mind. His father
died suddenly while he was at Winchester School. He felt
the warning intimation, and told his schoolfellows that he
was sure his father was dead. A telegram afterwards
arrived calling him home, but announcing only severe illness
of the father. In fact he was dead, as the boy had declared.
This is not an accidental incident with him. It has occurred
many times.
The Rev. Chauncy Hare Townshend has reported the
following, which might possibly be the result of excessive
exaltation of the senses, but was more probably an instance
of supersensuous perception :—
The Chevalier Filippi, of Milan, doctor of medicine, and a most
determined opponent to mesmerism, has acknowledged to me that some
of his patients, more particularly women after their confinement, when
suffering from nervous excitement, have distinguished the smallest
objects in darkness which appeared to him complete. The same physi¬
cian related to me the following occurrence Visiting a gentleman who
had an abscess, he found that the patient had not many hours to live ;
this, however, he did not tell him, but answered his inquiries about
himself as encouragingly as he could. Taking his leave, he shut the
door of the sick chamber, and passing through two other rooms, the
doors of which he also carefully shut, entered an apartment where some
friends of the patient were assembled. To these he said, speaking all
the time in that low and cautious tone which every one in a house
where illness is unconsciously adopts, “ The Signor Valdrighi (that
was the name of the invalid) is much worse. He cannot possibly
survive till morning.,, Scarcely had he uttered these words when the
patient’s bell was heard to ring violently, and soon after a servant
summoned the doctor back again into his presence- “ Why did you
deceive me?” exclaimed the dying man; “ I heard every word you said
just now in the further apartment.’’ Of this extraordinary assertion he
immediately gave proof by repeating to the astonished physician the
exact expressions he had made use of. Subsequently, upon Dr. Filippi
testifying his surprise at this occurrence to the servants of Signor
Valdrighi, they declared that their master’s hearing had become so
acute since his illness that he had frequently told them all they had
been talking of in the kitchen, which was even more remote from the
sick room than the apartment before alluded to.
Perception by tbe mind through some other medium than
the senses could not be better authenticated. They are not
ghost stories, like so many that are presented to us. No
form was actually before the child in the garden. There
were, at least, twenty witnesses to the first who saw nothing,
though their attention was strongly directed to the imaginary
object.
Had the child been alone at the moment of the vision, and
credence been given to her statement of what she had seen,
it would have gone forth to the world as a wonderful ghost
story verified by the event. Nobody would have doubted
that the spirit of the father had appeared to the child. But
the noonday light and the presence of so many companions
prove that it was only a vision of the mind, which perceived
what, through the limited sense of sight, it could not
possibly have seen. Doubtless a vast number of the best
authenticated ghost stories are to be explained in the same
manner.
Having devoted much time and care to the inquiry, I am
satisfied that an experiment probably often witnessed by the
reader is explicable by supersensuous perception. It had
been exhibited in private rooms, but it was first introduced
as a public exhibition by Houdin. It was afterwards shown
in London by Anderson and his daughter. Other cases of
the possession of this faculty have been discovered since. The
most satisfactory (because of the conditions under which it is
produced and a great number of persons who witness it
together) is that of Little Louise, lately exhibited at the
“ Royal Aquarium.”
She is blindfolded and seated on a chair raised upon a pedestal just
above the audience and in the midst of them, so that many persons are
surrounding her throughout the experiment. She is about twelve
years old. Whatever the communication, certainly it is not by sight;
for even had she the use of her eyes, nine-tenths of the objects
“ described ” by her are beyond or out of the range .of vision. Her
father goes among the seated audience, and asks to be shown some¬
thing. He says (and Anderson so informed me) that it is a condition
of the experiment that the object should be seen by him. I was
desirous to detect the trick, if such it was. I tried various tests, pro¬
ducing a variety of articles in different parts of the room of my own
choosing. No objection was ever made to my standing anywhere.
Thus it was : I produced a key. “ What is this ? ” “A key, papa.”
“ Anything on it 1 ” “ Yes, 36, Russell-square, on the handle.” Right.
This was answered without hesitation. Then a railway ticket. “ What
is this, Louise?” “A railway ticket, papa.” “From where to
where ? ” “ From Marlow to Paddington, papa.” “ What number ? ”
“ Two thousand one hundred and fifty-eight, papa.” Right also. I
produce a letter. “ What is this? ” “ A letter, papa.” “ What is the
address?” “Mr. Serjeant Cox, Moat Mount, Mill Hill, N.W.”
Right. u What is the postmark ? ” “ Hendon, N.W.” Right. Next
a seal. “ What is this ? ” “A seal, papa.” “ What is on it1 ” She
described the crest correctly. “Any words?” “ Ves, ‘Onward,
Upward,’ papa.” Once more, a coin. “ What is this ? ” “ Money,
papa.” MWhat is on it? ”' “A lot of queer marks, papa; I cannot
make them out.” It was a Chinese coin. I tried many more, but
these suffice to show the character of the exhibition. She never made
a mistake—never hesitated or paused for an answer. That the answer
came from her lips is certain, for many were close to her and saw and
heard her, as I did when the experiment was being tried by others.
How is this communication effected ? Is it a clever trick, or is it
supersensuous perception, or mental communion, or marvellous
memory ?
Many suggestions have been offered on the assumption of trick.
When I first witnessed it with Anderson and his daughter, I suspected
ventriloquism. She was placed upon a stage, far from the audience,
with her back turned to them, and I surmised that Anderson’s voice
was directed so as to appear to the audience as an answer returned by
her. He at once satisfied me that this conjecture was wrong by per*
mitting me to stand at her elbow during the performance. The voice,
beyond question, came from her lips, for I saw them move, heard the
sounds, and when I placed my hand on them the answer was stopped.
Another suggestion is that the floor is supplied with communicating
wires which, when pressed by the foot of the father, convey to the
child by signs the answer to be given. The objection to this is that it
is much too ingenious. Objects are inspected in at least twenty different
parts of the large room of the Aquarium, and so many points of com¬
munication could not be concealed. To test this I continually changed
my position. But everywhere the answer was given as rapidly and
unerringly. Moreover, the experiment, tried in a private house where
no apparatus can possibly be introduced, is equally successful.
The most plausible suggestion has acquired some importance, because
it was asserted by Houdin himself. He states in his memoirs that his
son was educated to the work by an elaborate system of pre-arranged
signs. The tones of the voice of the questioner indicated the answer.
The signs were, he says, arranged thus: They stood before a shop
window, for instance, and agreed upon, a different intonation or ex¬
pression for each familiar article there exhibited. Thus, by the special
manner of pronouncing in French the words, “ What is this ? ” he
suggested the desired answer. Obviously this would not explain the
doings of Miss Anderson, Mademoiselle Prudence, Little Louise, and
others of Houdin’s successors. It is possible, but not probable, that a
vocubulary of tones and words might be agreed upon to indicate a
certain number of familiar objects—such as a watch, a seal, a hat, a
letter, and articles that an audience would be likely to have about them.
But no pre-arrangement could possibly anticipate the number upon a
door-key, the motto on a seal, the address of a letter, or the places and
numbers on a railway ticket. If a child of twelve years could be
taught the infinite variety of ideas that were to be expressed by an
equally infinite variety of mere tones, in simply saying, “What is
this ? ” it would certainly be far more miraculous and really more inte¬
resting to mental philosophy and psychology than the assigning of it to
the abnormal condition in which supersensuous perception and mental
communion certainly occur.
The psychological explanation is simple, intelligible, and
rational.
The case is one of what is commonly called “ thought-
reading,” but which is more correctly termed l( mental
sympathy.”
The mental impressions (that is, the motions of the fibres
of the brain that attend every mental act) of the father are
communicated to the brain fibres of the child; for as the
harp-strings vibrate in unison, so do the brain-strings.
Identity of brain action is identity of idea. Therefore, when
the father read the seal in my hand, the impression of it was
conveyed to her by the process of (1) motion of his communis
eating nerve of sight; (2) this motion communicated to the
connected brain fibres; (3) perception of this by the conscious
self. Identical motions being set up on the child’s brain,
they produced in her identical mental impressions. Thus
what he saw she perceived, and doubtless these impressions
presented themselves to her conceptions as being the results
of actual vision.
The facts that prove a power of perception by some other
process than the medium of the senses are so numerous, that
a collection of them would fill many volumes. It is not found
in the condition of hypnotism alone. It occurs, as already
described, in natural somnambulism. It attends occasionally
upon fever. It has been seen, though rarely, where no
83
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Eeb. 21, 1879.
abnormal state of the mechanism can be detected. There is
some ground for concluding that it is a faculty possessed by
all human beings in varying degrees, but called into action
only under conditions of rare occurrence.
Physiology offers but an imperfect explanation of these
phenomena. It attributes them, not unreasonably, to an
excited state of the brain, consequent upon some diseased
condition of the structure, by which its sensitiveness is
increased to an extent that appears miraculous as compared
with the limited action of the healthy brain. This argument
is supported by reference to facts familiar to all, as, for
instance, the painful effect of very slight sounds upon fever-
patients, and in many nervous disorders. Each sense is
undoubtedly capable of an excitement that largely multiplies
' its capacity, and if the cases of supersensuous perception had
recorded nothing more than instances of extreme sensitive¬
ness to external impressions, the physiological theory might
be accepted as a complete solution of the problem.
In truth, but a fraction of the phenomena can be thus j I
accounted for. Allot to hysteria, to fever, to nervous excite- J;
ment, all the cases in which the senses could have been acted | <
upon directly, there will be a residue of still more numerous j!
cases that admit of no such explanation—cases in which the
nerves of the senses could not have been acted upon, at j
least according to any known physical law.
“ Mental sympathy and communion ” will explain many j
more of these cases. The motions^ of one brain setting up j
like motions in another brain will account sufficiently for j
manj' of the recorded instances of supposed supersensuous
perception. In such cases the patient has not perceived the
object itself, but only the reflection of it, as it were, from the j
brain of the person en rapport with him. But | after these i
also have been eliminated, there will be found a large
number of well-authenticated instances of perception of j
things beyond the utmost range of the senses, however
exalted, and certainly not within the knowledge of any person
present.
Such cases have been unfortunately classified with others
partially resembling them, under the general name of clair-, j
Yotance. But this, like so many of the terms used in mental j
and pneumatological science, implies an unproved cause, and,
therefore, is open to the grave objection, that it takes for
granted a certain state of things which probably is not the
true one. u Clairvoyance,” or in plain English, “ clear see¬
ing,” assumes that the phenomena so designated, is an act j
of vision ; that it is an abnormal exercise of the sense of j
sight. The unhappy consequence of this and similar terms j
implying foregone conclusions is that they provoke prejudices j I
not afterwards easily removed. When the phenomena so j |
termed are reported, it is contended, not unreasonably, | <
that inasmuch as we know the mechanism of vision and the i \
functions of theorgan of sight, we know that the sense cannot j J
extend so far or be exercised at all under the conditions stated | j
in the alleged phenomena. These are, therefore, summarily |
rejected as delusions or frauds, instead of being investigated, I
with purpose to ascertain if there be any and what truth in |
them, and what their value and .their sources—as science I
would have been done eagerly if the name had provoked no j
prejudices.
In this instance it will appear that the name has been too j
hastily given to the phenomena; that they are not abnormal j
operations of the sense of sight; that the objects are not j
seen by the organ of vision ; that the process is by a mental j
perception obtained by some other medium than the eye; j
consequently that it is not “ clear-seeing ” at all, nor are the j ]
bodily senses in any manner'engaged in the process—that, in ! )
truth, it is a supersensuous perception. Its sources and how 1 j
it is exercised are not yet discovered, but the proofs of its I <
existence are potent and abundant. • 1)
The existence of such a process of mental perception, not j
alone without the aid of the senses, but under conditions in j
which the senses would be' impotent, is established by over- j
whelming evidence. No person who has carefully and !
extensively examined the phenomena of somnambulism, j j
whether natural or artificial, has failed to find multiplied |
proofs of it. The cases medically reported supply conclusive !
^evidence that supersensuous perception is naturally developed j
in natural somnambulism. Very little experience of the |
phenomena exhibited in artificial somnambulism will satisfy
the most incredulous that what is thus naturally exhibited
in the one condition may be reproduced by art in the other
condition. The physical or psychic causes of the pheno¬
mena are, it is true^ undiscovered as yet. But so are the
causes of many other facts in science, which nevertheless are
accepted as facts. After centuries of experiment, we are
wholly ignorant now, as ever, by what process the magnet
lifts the steel; by what formative force our bodies are moulded;
what life is ; by what power a scratch is healed. We do not
deny nor dispute fact§ because we cannot explain them. The
facts of somnambulism are not in themselves one whit more
wonderful nor more inexplicable than any other unexplained
facts—only they are not daily presented to us for explanation.
Like all other asserted facts, they are questions of
evidence alone. Three such volumes as this would not con¬
tain all its recorded cases. If every scientific observer of
psychological phenomena were to report only his own experi¬
ences, the records of supersensuous perception would fill a
library. I have personally witnessed many hundreds of
instances, exhibited under the most careful tests, in the
presence of the most competent observers. In this treatise,
a few only have been presented, not for lack of matter, but
for lack of space.
The explanatory theories have been many, but although
even the best of them are conjectural merely, they are of
value as showing that the phenomena are not supernatural,
but capable of being brought within the domain of science.
First, it is urged that they are not necessarily super¬
sensuous perceptions, but may be accounted for by abnormal
exaltation of the senses, such as is sometimes seen in fever
and other excited states of the brain and nerves.
The answer is decisive. The special perceptive power
now under consideration is not merely an extension of the
senses ; it is found under conditions that preclude the
exercise of the senses. The sense of hearing might con¬
ceivably be so excited as to recognise a footstep distant by a
mile, the ear being practically converted into a microphone.
The sense of sight might conceivably discern an object so
far off or so small as to be imperceptible save by an abnormally
sensitive nerve. But no such explanation will suffice for
things perceived through opaque substances, or placed out
of the line of vision, unless we can conceive of opaque sub¬
stances being penetrable by some rays of light which,
though imperceptible in the normal condition of the senses,
are perceptible in some abnormal states of sensibility.
The recent discovery of the microphone may not im¬
probably suggest a solution of this, as of some other
problems in psychology. That curious instrument proves the
presence about us of innumerable waves of sound, so slight
as to be inaudible to us. It reveals to the ear a new world,
as the microscope has opened a new world to the eye. This
revelation is another proof of the fact, so important to
psychological science, that our senses are constructed to per¬
ceive only an infinitesimal portion of the sights and sounds
about us ; that the invisible and inaudible world by which
we are surrounded, and of whose very existence we have no
knowledge, is infinitely more populous of forms, of sounds,
of life, than the world which our senses reveal to us.
Therefore, that it is mere folly and presumption to pass an
d priori judgment, and to pronounce of anything that it
cannot be. Still more presumptuous is it to assert that
molecular matter, which alone is perceptible by the senses,
is all that exists in this world, remembering that those
senses cannot perceive a thousandth part of that which we
know to be, and that if our eyes had been microscopes and
our ears microphones we should be actually seeing millions
of things in that which now is solitude, and hearing millions
of sounds in that which now is silence.
Another theory has been advanced, having better claim
to acceptance. The mechanism of man, it is contended, in
its normal condition, permits of perception by the conscious
self of external existence through the evidence of the senses
alone, which are the mechanism specially constructed to
receive impressions from the outside world and convey them
throngh the nerves to the consciousness — whatever that
may be. If vision be the sense so impressed, the convey¬
ance of the impression made upon the recipient nerve is
subject to certain restrictive conditions. Sight is conditioned
upon the passing rays of light from the object to the retina ;
and these rays are themselves subject to conditions, one of |
which is that they cannot pass through certain substances, j
which are therefore called opaque, as substances through |
which they can pass are called transparent. But light is |
not the only force in action about us. There is another j
force far more penetrating—the magnetic force—which per¬
meates all molecular structure. If, therefore, an intelligence !
can be conceived having a mechanism contrived to receive
the impressions of the magnetic force, as the mechanism of |
man is contrived to perceive the rays of light, to such a
being what we callu opacity ” would not be. To him all would i
be transparent. There would be no obstacle to his percep¬
tion, but diminution of size by distance, and it is problem a- I
tical if even such an obstacle could impede a perception
which would be almost boundless.
Psychology suggests, for as yet it is unable to prove, that
in this may be sought the solution of the problem of super-
sensuous perception. May it not well be that the conscious
self has, in certain abnormal states of the mechanism,
capacity to obtain perceptions of external objects directly, or
through some other medium than the mechanism of the
body. For an instance. Isolated from the influence of the
bodily senses and the conditions of their action (which is
the actual condition in somnambulism), may not the con¬
scious self be enabled to exercise its own larger percipient
powers somewhat as they may be expected to exist when
that self is wholly severed from the body? May it not con¬
ceivably—nay, probably—be enabled then to obtain percep¬
tions of external objects by means of the waves of the
magnetic or electric force, as in the normal condition of the
mechanism it sees by perception of the waves of light?
Again; is it not reasonably probable that in some conditions
of the mechanism there may be perception of the waves of
the ether (the senses can perceive only the waves of the
atmosphere) ? In either of such cases, to the conscious self
there would be no opacity. Every substance would be
transparent, and no interposing molecular matter would
suffice to prevent that perception. This must be the future
condition of soul, if there be a life hereafter. May not that
power of independent perception be exercised more or less
here, under certain abnormal conditions, when the mechanism
is thrown out of gear and the conscious self is partially
emancipated from the restraints and conditions imposed
upon it by the needs of its present state of evolution ?
Thus does another stage of our examination of the
mechanism of man in action compel us to the same conclu¬
sion—that the man is not material, that is to say, of mole¬
cular structure, merely; that the conscious self is a definite
existing entity, distinct from the molecular structure,
exhibiting its individuality and independence in a continuous
series of extra-corporeal perceptions and expressions, pre¬
sented in the familiar phenomena of dream, as in the other
more rare abnormal conditions of delirium, insanity, som¬
nambulism, catalepsy, mental sympathy, and communion
and supersensuous perception? In all of these we find the
common feature of a severance, more or less, of the con¬
scious self from the influence of the senses—a loosening of
the links that bind it to the material structure, with a
temporary exercise of that independent action which may be
reasonably looked for when the severance is completed by
the dissolution of the molecular mechanism with which the
soul (or self) is clothed for the purpose of existence in a
molecular world.
CAPE JASK.
Spiritualism lias taken root at Cape Jask, on the borders of the
Persian Gulf, and in one of the hottest regions on the face of the earth.
A correspondent sends us the following description of the place :—
Jask, or Jashk, appears as a small coast-“ town ’’ on the borders of
Beloochistan, in any ordinary map of Asia, in (approximately) lat.
25' 45" N., long. 57' 15" E. In reality Jask is an unpretending Belooch
village, presided over by the usual “ Sheikh ; ” its inhabitants are more
or less nomadic: and their huts—while they last—may sometimes
number one hundred. This village is situated in a rather deep bay,
and is twelve miles from our own telegraph station, which, for political
reasons principally, was located on the narrow neck forming-the pro¬
montory termed Cape Jask. We established ourselves here in 18(j8, as
the spot offered, I believe, more conveniences in every way than our
previous station, Mussendom, on the opposite coast, a spot devoid of
everything but pure and simple rock and sea. When we arrived, even
this place presented nothing enticing; in place of the highlands of
Mussendom we found lowlands of sand, which we built and vegetated
on. The station being, as I said, a dozen miles from the village of
Jask—the only place where supplies could be procured in quantity—
you can imagine how badly everyone of us fared for the necessaries of
life. However, as money is apparently the same in all lands,* money
soon induced first one and then another of the villagers to bring in
supplies to satisfy the ordinary wants of nature ; and as they found the
British raj, or prestige, great (by reason of a never-failing supply of
coin), and that labour was required, it was not long before quite as
large and as worthy a collection of huts on the promontory appeared as
had existed since the days of Alexander, and that, too, months before
our own were finished.
Our own buildings were, for reasons not generally known, but which
may easily be guessed, very massively built, low, and with a breast-
high parapet running all round the perfectly level roofs.
The telegraph village, which has sprung up since our arrival, consists
of about 150 huts, with a population of perhaps 500 souls. The latter
are permanent residents, as they in the main comprise the Government
menial establishment, together with their wives and belongings. A
number of outsiders are gradually drawing nearer day by day to the
boundary line dividing the British limits and Persian land. The natives
suffer most atrociously at the hands of their own sheikhs and sirdars,
who do not scruple to pillage them of nearly all they possess whenever
an opportunity offers ; hence their anxiety to get within British juris¬
diction, for they are perfectly well aware of the fact, patent to every one
in India and the East, that security and peace are always found inside
English limits. Prudence forbids any such near acquaintance in
quantity ; for although the Beloochee at a distance is generally of com¬
manding appearance, I regret to say that any admiration for him is
entirely dissipated immediately he takes your hand with the usual
“ Salaam Ali-kum” or <£ Bismillah.” He smells horribly, and is fear¬
fully uncanny in his behaviour. For instance, a Belooch chief, or any
of his suite (ill-clad warriors of the Red Indian type, but without their
grace or beauty), does not hesitate, should the introduction go beyond
mere formalities, to squat on the cleanest linen you have, or stain your
newly purchased couch with his unshod feet, or soil your last and
treasured photographs. When I say that a Belooch is never washed
but once in his life, and that at his birth, need I say more ? I could give
your readers some rather good anecdotes of these people. I may, some
day.
Those who are not British subjects acknowledge Meer Abdul Nubi
and Meer Ali as their chiefs. These two are subject to the Governor of
Bunder Abbas, who is himself appointed by the Shah. Meer Abdul
and the other grandee cordially hate each other, and are always “looting ”
one another’s followers. Should the people “ looted ” be unable to gain
redress at the hands of the looters, they come to us for justice, which
means support enough to go and loot in return. Of course we decline
promptly. Abdul Nubi goes out occasionally on exploring excursions,
either along the coast, or into the interior. His domicile is at Jask,
where he has a so-called fort, mounting one gun, which is supposed to
have been a bit of plunder too. While away his dame, a lassie averaging
forty-five summers, assumes command of the fort and gun, and, if
rumour speaks the truth, she makes a far better soldier than her
husband. Meer Ali, chieftain No. 2, is not always to be found near
Jask. His explorations are of a more unassuming character; that is
to say, he forages in a more quiet and unostentatious style. Both chiefs
visit the telegraph station whenever they are advised that our usual
supplies of European stores have arrived. H. H.
Was George Combe a Medium ?—At page 181 in first vol.'of the Life
of George Combe, it is stated that he considered his “ Essay on Re¬
sponsibility ’’ as an effusion, rather than a scientific paper. Writing
and reading it afforded him the greatest delight he had ever experienced
in this world. Writing about it to the Rev. Dr. Welsh, 11th February,
1826, he says:—“ Right or wrong, it was the spirit of inspiration that
produced it, for it poured forth in torrents from the pen, at the rate of
four and a quarter pages of my close MS. per hour, without premedi¬
tation, and almost without requiring a word of alteration in the style.”
Public Tests.—Last Sunday week, after Mr. J. W. Fletcher had
finished the ordinary service at the Cavendish Rooms, he, through his
mediumship, began to tell those present what spirits he saw. The
following were spme of the cases :—1. I see a boy in trouble ; now he is
on the sea, dressed like a sailor; he is much larger now. Again he
appears. I see him walking down the street; he staggers and drops
dead. The name of “James” appears. He is near that gentleman
(indicating a gentleman at the back of the hall, a stranger to the
medium). The test was recognised. 2. An old man walks up and
down the aisle; he looks eighty years old; he comes to some one
whose name is Frederick; his own name is William P  ; and his
coming is in answer to a desire on the part of that gentleman. After a
short message, the spirit was recognised by his son. 3. A young girl
comes to her mother; she has been gone some time; she wishes to
comfort her mother over recent troubles, &c. I see “ April 28th, 1864,”
after which is “ Annie.” Recognised as being the daughter of a lady
present, the date given being the day of her death ; the communication
correct in every particular. 4. A gentleman spirit, whose name is
Henry B , comes to his two brothers, Charles and Philip. Recogr
nised by a gentleman present. 5. Sister Mary, a lovely spirit, comes
to her two sisters. Recognised by a lady. Mr. Fletcher is now regu¬
larly conducting a Sunday school, or Lyceum, in the morning, and a
service in the evening, at the Cavendish Rooms.
90
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 21, 1879,
DU. HADDOCK’S DAST DETTER HOME.
The following is an extract from the last letter of Dr.
Hallock to Mrs. Hallock. It was dated New York, January
17th, 1879, that is to say, the day before he died:—
You must know that I have been dabbling to the extent
of one dollar in a benevolent lottery, and, moreover, that I
have drawn the prize against forty competitors for it. Do
you know what is an “Afghan?” I do not, but I have
reason to believe that it is a worsted fabric more or less
artistically constructed for the purpose of spreading over the
laps of well-to-do ladies when they take carriage exercise for
the purpose of getting up their appetites for dinner. Now
for a full and complete understanding of my interest in this
work of art, I must refer you to the two numbers of the
Spiritualist—one for December 20th, and the other for
December 27th—containing a very interesting account of a
Miss Fancher. Blind, with but one hand to work with, and
with the work done over the back of her head, where mortal
eyes would have been of no use had she been able to see with
them, the colours all selected by herself and worked into the
fabric with great taste and skill, that Afghan as a physical
fact has a value that cannot be measured by money. I have
seen the girl. I think there is not a greater marvel to be
found in any of the well-attested records of human expe¬
rience. Now, as the Afghan has been exhibited at the Con¬
ference here, and also at the Republican Hall, two or three
times at each place, it occurred to me that the best use
that it could be put to would be to send it to you (should a
convenient opportunity offer), that you might leave it for a
reasonable time on exhibition at the rooms of the British j
Association of Spiritualists, or do with it whatever else your |
better judgment may suggest. I think such of our British j
friends as take an interest in the narrative of Miss Fancher,
as contained in the Spiritualist, will be glad to see this I
specimen of her work. It was after much persuasion that
Mr. Partridge prevailed upon her to allow him to dispose of
the work for money ; but having gained her consent, he took
this method, which resulted in forty dollars for Miss Fancher,
and the ownership of the Afghan by Doc.
THE NATIONAD ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUABISTS.
Mr. C. C. Massey has sent the following letter to Mr.
Harrison:—
My Dear Harrison,—I see that the Council has adopted
the recommendation of the General Purposes Committee,
relating to the termination of your tenancy, after having
its attention distinctly called to the circumstances
under which the committee entertained and decided that
question.
I have, therefore, written to the secretary withdrawing
myself from the Association, and it is my intention to transfer
my subscription for the future to the “ Guarantee Fund of
The Spiritualist ” newspaper.
There is an error which I should be glad to have
corrected. Mr. Stainton Moses, in his kind remarks about
me with reference to my retirement from the Council, is
reported to have said that my “ decision to leave the
‘ Association ’ was final.” That is, no doubt, a mistake in
the report. When I wrote my letter which was before the
Council, I had no intention whatever of leaving the Asso¬
ciation, though I wished to retire from active participation
in its business. I must, however, add that at no time
would I have remained a member after it had once become
evident that the influence which seems to be at length pre¬
dominant, must prevail. But upon that subject, since I
have now ceased to be interested in the principles upon
which the affairs of the Association are conducted, I have
as little right as inclination to enlarge. You are at liberty
to publish this letter.—Yours very truly,
C. C. Massey.
Temple, February 15, 1879.
Mr. Harrison has sent the following letter to Mr.
Alexander Calder, President of the Association :—
11, St. MichaePs-terrace, Folkestone, Feb. 17, 1879.
Dear Sir,—I believe that you did not like my applying
the words “ and “ subterfuge” to the motion of Mr.
j| Dawson Rogers at the Council, which was so(worded as to
I I cover subjects which the Council while passing it never in-
| | tended, and my applying them also to the motions in com-
j I mittee of Mr. Bennett, seconded by Mr. Rogers, dealing
| I with the said subjects which the Council never intended,
111 and in the absence of members of the committee who would
j | have liked to have voted thereon had they known what was
| under consideration. I now write to publicly withdraw the
i two words “ trick” and “ subterfugef my reason for so doing
j being personal respect for you, sir, and because you are
| President of the body in which these things took place.—
| Truly yours, W. H. Harrison.
j j Alexander Oalder, Esq.
| At the formation of the National Association of Spirit-
| ualists, and in consequence of the semi-mistake of esta-
| | blishing a very large Council, not a few persons who had
j never made any mark in the movement were put on the
i | managing body, simply because each of them was proposed
j j by some personal friend. In the subsequent working, the
| ! majority of well-known Spiritualists have been absentees at
| j Council meetings, especially of late, and the untried people
I I who were put on in the way already mentioned have been
| I having everything their own way. Matters might be put
| | right by reorganising the Council, reducing its number to,
I | say, twelve efficient persons appointed by a general election.
| | We have no doubt that three-fourths of those who are now
I j I practically managing the Association would not be chosen
i by the members. At all events, nobody has any right to
| object to the putting of this question to a full and free vote.
MR. TYERMAN IN ENGLAND.
The Rev. John Tyerman, who has done some of the
! hardest work in connection with the pioneering of Spirit-
! ualism in Australia, is now in England, and lectured last
| Sunday at the Doughty Hall, London. We believe his
| stay in this country will be brief, and hope that before he
| departs, this faithful worker will tell us much about
| Spiritualism at the Antipodes.
HEALING AT A DISTANCE.
| The New Testament tells how St. Paul sent “ aprons to the sick,” and they
I recovered. Are there many authenticated cases of persons having been
I similarly cured by mesmerised fabrics ? Wo quote the following from the
I Banner of Light:—
! “ While reading the Banner of July 13th, I noticed an article concerning
j Dr. J. R. Newton, the healer, of Yonkers, N. Y. And I would like to add my
j testimony to the long list of persons who have been benefited by his treat¬
ment, hoping to encourage some poor sufferer to make the trial that I did.
| After a long and painful illness, and after many previous discouraging trials
| and failures with other physicians, I concluded to write to Dr. Newton,
j describing my disease, which was perhaps the worst case of lameness on
! record, caused by cancerous affections of the right foot, limb, arm, and wrist,
i with the most excruciating pains in the bones and all through the body;
i nodes gathering and breaking, indurated ulcers three and a half to four inches,
| &c., &c., preventing sleep for weeks. I was perfectly helpless, and when I
i could walk at all was obliged to use crutches. I had been a great sufferer for
| four years.
)! “ After receiving two mesmerised letters from the doctor I was enabled to
t ! go about considerably at ease, to sleep and eat well; and ere three months
(j had passed I was enjoying myself, travelling with ease, and I feel that I can
) ] now safely say that I am well, quite well. It is impossible for me to describe
I> \ what a sufferer I was, and the benefit and relief I have experienced
| through this treatment, and wholly at a distance from Dr. Newton, and not
I having seen him. Words fail to express the gratitude and unbounded pleasure
j I feel. “ Mbs, Cordelia R. Ray.
| 13, Stuyvesant-avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y.
I A Spirit Message.—Men will soon recognise the fact that every
! human being has an immortal soul; that that soul cannot be lost, nor,
i indeed, was ever in danger of being so, and that that soul is capable of
j improvement without limit. When they perceive these great truths,
i your prisons, your penitentiaries, your gaols will he doomed, and in
| their place will arise those great moral hospitals which will do so much
i to regenerate mankind. There men will be first taught to earn their
i living, and to pay by their labour for their own support, whilst they
| will be able to accumulate such excess as they may earn for their own
i use when they are fit to be trusted again amongst their fellow men.
Ii Instead of by prison rules and harsh regulations, the prisoner will be
won over to virtue by the actual love of those who endeavour to help
him ; he will have every incitement, every inducement to pursue a life
of virtue, whilst preparing himself to renew the battle in the outside
j world. Men will then be sentenced, not to penal servitude or solitary
confinement, but to be sent to a hospital until reformed.—Harbinger of
Light (Melbourne).
Feb, 21, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
9i
HENRY SLADE IN AUSTRALIA. j I
The highly successful career of Dr. Slade in Australia has, as usual, i j j
raised up professional imitators of genuine manifestations, whereby j i
some excitement has been caused. The following is from The Melbourne \ \
Evening Herald, of November 26th, 1878:— j !
PROFESSOR BALDWIN AND DR. SLADE. ' (I
There was a large attendance at St. George’s Hall last evening to | j
witness the clever entertainment of Professor and Mrs. Baldwin. One | •
of the items in the programme was the slate-writing of Dr. Slade, and j
considerable curiosity was manifested as to how this was done. As [
will be seen later on, during the expose of the Slade writing the audience j j
were treated to a sensational item not on the programme. Professor ] (
Baldwin, on Saturday night, had denounced Slade as an impostor and a | >
humbug, and challenged him to a public test of his slate-writing. Last | /
evening, just before exposing the slate-writing, Mr. Baldwin again j j j
denounced Slade, and others like him, who prey on the sorrows and j j
sufferings of poor weak women. Professor Baldwin declared that he ||
discovered Slade’s modus operandi by means of a mirror in a locket, i |
and that when in America he used a table similar to that now on the i) i
stage. The table was not unlike that used by Slade, but something j / i
smaller. The leaves were, however, supported by an arm, which, when j ( j
they are let down, fits into a slot; and when the leaves are up, the place | j
into which the arm fits presents an opening of about four inches, into i!
which a small slate can be placed, and held while the writing is done. | ( j
Mr. Baldwin states that tables of a similar kind are much used in J |
America, but that the slot or opening was not necessary for the per- j | j
formance of the trick. Mr. A. P. Martin sat at the table, and the i |
audience saw how easily the slate-writing was done. The sound as of a J f
pencil writing was produced, as the Herald stated some time since it II
could be, by the finger-nail. The illusion was complete, and the sitter | ( I
at the table with the professor was much puzzled, while the audience i |
were thoroughly enlightened. After the operation Mr. Terry, at whose j j
premises Dr. Slade performed, and who was on the stage as one of the i j
committee, rose and said that the earlier part of the entertainment was j | j
a fair representation of the Davenport seance, but that the slate-writing j I i
was but a miserable imitation of Dr. Slade’s seances, and that Mr. (|
Baldwin had made misstatements about Dr. Slade; further, that there j | j
was no slot in Dr. Slade’s table ; that he had a larger slate, which was j | j
covered with writing. Mr. Winter, who sat in the body of the hall, j (!
said that he and another pressman had attended Slade’s performances ] j j
on three occasions, and had arrived at the conclusion, published at the j j j
time, that the whole affair was a clever trick; that Professor Baldwin’s j (
expose was a fair duplication of the slate-writing which he (the speaker) ] | j
witnessed at Slade’s ; that there was no slot in Slade’s table, but that ] I j
Mr. Baldwin had just stated, and had demonstrated to him in private, that j (j
a slot was not necessary; that the slates he brought to Slade were small, and 1 j j
that at two seances only two or three words were written on the slate, j 11
suchaS',£We will try,” “We cannot;” that these words were very j(j
indistinctly written; but that at the third seance, in the evening, at j) j
which three persons besides Dr. Slade were present, a long message i I j
was given on a slate picked up by Dr. Slade from behind him, and that j (j
it was the unanimous opinion of the three investigators that that mes- i /!
sage, which was a general one, and written clearly and well, was on the j 11
slate before it was used by Dr. Slade. After Mr. Winter sat down, Mr. j (j
4 Baldwin said the discussion could not then be continued, but that he j j j
would be glad to pay half the expenses of that or any other hall for j (j
Sunday evening, and would discuss spiritualistic phenomena with Mr. j! j
Terry or any one else. He then took from his pocket a roll of notes, j j j
and said, “ I have here about £25 or £30. I will place this sum in the j ( j
hands of any respectable man, and if Dr. Slade will give a sitting to j (j
Mr. Winter, Mr. Terry, and myself, I will give him £b for every word j)!
lie writes on a slate. My manager will give Dr. Slade, or any other ] (•,
medium, £20 to come on the stage and get any manifestations.” j (j
Further, the Professor said he would give £50 to every medium who j) j
would do anything which he could not do and explain after witnessing ] I j
it three times. Turning to Mr. Terry he said, “ We have a simple j (I
way of doing these things in our country. When any money is at stake 111
we say, * Put up, or shut up.’ ” The performance then went on, some j 11
persons chaffing Mr. Terry, when Mr. Baldwin at once interfered, and j (]
reminded his audience that Mr. Terry was his guest on that stage, and | / j
should be treated like a gentleman. During the evening Mr. Baldwin | j |
indicated how mediums got their feet free, and stated that he had shown ] (j
to two gentlemen from the Herald, how by means of a pair of “ box ” j 11
shoes, he. could get his feet out, and yet the shoes remain as firm as ill
though his feet were in them; so that any person who kept his feet on j j j
top of such shoes would believe that the medium’s feet were in them, j) |
while they were out producing manifestations all the time. i (i
After the performance, Mr. Winter asked Mr. Terry whether he had i j!
any objection to allow him to again examine Dr. Slade’s table. Mr. j)!
Terry very courteously offered to show it at once, and to permit Mr. i (
Baldwin to examine it, and a start was made for that gentleman’s place i (
of business in Russell-street, which was found closed and in darkness, j /
but which he opened and lighted up. Mr. Terry was most courteous j (
to our representative during the evening (for which we thank him), and ! (
is evidently an earnest and sincere believer in Dr. Slade’s mediumship |)
and spiritual phenomena generally. The table was examined, and jl
found to be larger than that used by Mr. Baldwin. There was, how- | \
ever, no slot in it. The arm, which in Baldwin’s table is movable, so i /
that the leaves of the table may be let down, is in Slade’s table a fixture, j (
so that there is no need of a slot for it to fall into, as the leaves cannot I)
be closed. Baldwin, however, pointed out at once that this fixed arm j v
formed an excellent support to place a slate against; and while it was j (
held there by the little finger of the right hand a few words
■cun be readily and quickly written by the thumb and fore- i I
fiuger with a small piece of pencil — the smaller the better. 1'
He further declared that to-night he would not use the slot in his
table, but would do the trick without it. He said, moreover,
that he would make a declaration, before any magistrate, that he dis¬
covered how Slade did the writing by means of a locket mirror, and
that it was a trick, and that the table used by Slade in New York
was similar to that which he (Baldwin) had used that evening at St.
George’s Hall. Mr. Winter, being a justice of the peace, was pre¬
pared to take the declaration, when Mr. Baldwin went on to say that
Slade was a swindler and an impostor. At this, Mr. Terry fired up,
and declared that no such language should be used in his room, as he
knew well that Slade was as honest a man as Baldwin, if not more
so. Baldwin was ready to reiterate his statement, and Terry was ready
to champion his friend’s cause by doing battle for it. Coat sleeves went
up a little, and matters looked ominous. It seemed as though the room
was to be cleared for action, and Mr. Winter got ready to take the dying
depositions of one or both of the champions. However, the storm blew
over, and quiet reigned again. Baldwin asked where Slade was, and
was informed that he had left for Ballarat that morning, and would
probably be absent for about a week. The seance-exposer then repeated
his previous offer to put up £25 or £30, and pay Slade twice the usual
fee, if he would give a sitting to Mr. Winter, Mr. Terry, and himself;
and also to give Mr. Slade five pounds per word, for every word he
wrote upon a slate, while held by him (Baldwin). Further, to tie two
slates together with a bit of string, and to give Slade five pounds for every
word he wrote within the two slates. Baldwin pointed out that as Slade
worked for money—so much per sitting—he was afforded an opportunity
of making a considerable sum, if his manifestations are not the results of
trickery and fraud. One of the Spiritualists present, a thorough believer
in Slade, thought this a fair offer, and considered that the seance should
be arranged for. The question of Dr. Slade’s manifestations now narrows
itself down to a very small point. Baldwin declares that the writing
can be done by pressing the slate against the arm of Slade’s table, and
we have ascertained by experiment that this can be done. To do this,
however, it would be necessary that Slade’s hand, with the slate on it,
and a portion of his arm, should be under the table. The believers in
Slade, of whom there were two present, declared that at no time is his
hand out of sight. Our representatives, one and all, aver that, at every
seance at which they attended, Slade’s hand and arm were under the
table for some seconds, under pretence of asking the spirits if they
“ would write for the gentlemen,” and that, during this time, there was
noticeable a peculiar gurgling and coughing noise in Slade’s throat,
which was no doubt adopted partly to drown any sound raised by the
pencil writing, and partly to distract the attention of sitters. As Slade
is still giving sittings, there should be no difficulty in ascertaining
whether or not his hand, with a slate in it, is ever under the
table, even for a second. If it be, then the trick is very easy, as any
one can write a few words in the manner shown by Baldwin. If long
messages are wanted, a pin, spirits of wine, or sleight of hand and
cheek are all that are necessary to produce them. These are only
attempted when believers are present. Our representatives say they
were not favoured with a slate full of writing.
In order to call to mind the view which our representatives took of
Slade’s performances at the time, we publish condensed reports of the
seances, which appeared in the Herald. Let it be remembered that the
articles were written before the arrival of the Baldwins in Melbourne,
and if the suggestions as to the mode of doing the trick made therein
are similar to those now publicly made by Professor Baldwin, the coin¬
cidence arises from the fact that these were the rational solutions of the
so-called phenomena, and that where these could be accounted for by
natural means, our representatives preferred accepting that solution of
the mystery to rushing off for an explanation to the supernatural. As
these articles have appeared before, we print them now in small type.
Those who are interested in the subject will no doubt overcome the
difficulties of reading it, while there will be all the less to skip for those
who do not care for Slade or Sladeism.
On the 30th August we published an account of our first seance with
Slade, from which we extract the following:—
“In response to an invitation from Mr., or, as he is known to the
Spiritists, “ Dr.” Slade, the writer and another member of the Herald
staff attended at the establishment of Mr. Terry, bookseller, &c., in
Russell-street, at ten o’clock on the morning of the 21st inst. We found
Mr. Slade to be a young man of some thirty years of age, an American,
but muscular and powerfully built, with nothing of the lank and lean
appearance which Britishers usually ascribe to Americans. We were
duly ushered in a small, neatly-furnished, well-lighted room upstairs,
with one large window in it. In the centre of the room was a table of
rather peculiar make, inasmuch as the legs were close together in the
centre, the sides extending beyond the supports. The table was not
unlike an ordinary dressing-table, on the frame of which a cover much
too large had been fixed. A careful examination failed to show any
concealed works, nor is it probable that there are any.
“ In answer to an inquiry, Mr. Slade stated that he did not promul¬
gate any theory as to how the manifestations which took place in his
presence were accounted for. He said, however, that they were not
produced by him. At a subsequent sitting he intimated that he
employed his talents as a medium in obtaining messages from deceased
friends and relatives of those who choose to consult him.
“ On being seated, Mr. Slade was at one end of the table, opposite the
window, and just in front of the legs of the table. As a rule, he sat
sideways on the chair, so that his legs were not under the table; but
their position was frequently changed. It may be mentioned, en passant,
that he wore slippers, which could, if necessary, be slipped off and on
easily. One of us sat at the side of the table on his right hand, in such
a position that his feet could be occasionally seen. The other sat with
his back to the window, opposite the medium.
“ Our hands were placed on the table, touching. Soon raps, of a
muffled and somewhat peculiar nature, were heard, which were accepted
92
THE SPIRITUALIST.
as evidence that spirits were about. We had brought with us two new
slates—one a small folding-slate, the other»an ordinary child’s slate.
The slates were marked, so that they could not be changed. On the
face of the slate was placed a small piece of slate pencil, about the size
of a grain of wheat. The slate was then placed under the table, and
there held by Mr. Slade with his right hand, his left being on the table,
touching ours. Soon after, the sound as of a pencil writing on a slate
was heard, and on the slate being produced an indistinct written mes¬
sage was found upon it. We were informed that the writing would
improve, and subsequent messages, of which there were several, were
somewhat more legible. Mr. Slade then handed the slate to us to hold,
but no writing was effected on it, and the mysterious power intimated,
on another slate, held by the medium, that it could not write for us.
Meanwhile, Mr. Slade informed us of the wonderful feats occasionally
performed in his presence, keeping up what sceptics irreverently term
‘ conjurers’ patter.’ The one nearest to Mr. Slade then held the slate
in his right hand under the table; but there was no writing, though, on
one occasion, the slate was jerked in a violent manner from the table.
A piece of pencil was next placed in the folded slate, the covers of which
were closed by the medium, and the slate placed on the shoulder of the
person sitting next to Mr. Slade. A sound as of writing was heard, and
on opening the slate a few words, in answer to a query by the medium,
were found written. A small slate was placed under the table, Mr.
Slade holding it in his right hand, and the person sitting next to him
pressing it close to the under side of the table with his left hand;
sounds of writing were again heard, and on the slate being produced, a
message was written upon it. The chair of the person next to Mr.
Slade was suddenly and violently pushed back a few inches, and, so far
as any manifestations to us were concerned, they were invariably vouch¬
safed to the one sitting close to the medium; whether it was because of
his proximity, or in consequence of his greater disposition to believe
and praise, rather than to sneer of scoff, neither of us has yet
determined.
“ A small mark was then made on the slate, and the piece of pencil
placed on this mark. A full-sized wooden pencil was then laid on the
slate, which was held under the table in one hand by Dr. Slade. In a
few seconds the large pencil was seen flying across the room, and on
the slate being produced, the small pencil was found on the mark
where it had been placed, the inference being that it was impossible for
Mr. Slade to have thrown the other pencil without disturbing the
smaller one, which, by the way, does not follow.
“ One of us asked if the power would not move the pencil slowly, so
that we might see it moving about the room; and although the medium
informed us that this was sometimes done, the pencil moving so
slowly that it might be caught in the hand, no such convincing proof
of mysterious power was afforded us. At some small distance away
was an ordinary toilet table, and we were told that the power occa¬
sionally levitated articles of furniture. We asked that this table might
be moved. Mr. Slade then asked the power if this could be done,
and placed the slate under the table with the small piece, of pencil on
it for an answer. On being produced, the words, ‘ We will do all we
can,’ were found written on the face of it. The table was not moved,
nor was the pencil levitated slowly, as requested. We were, however,
informed that these manifestations would be given on some future
occasion, as the power increased with repeated sittings. We frankly
admitted that we were unbelievers, and asked that some unmistakable
demonstration of mysterious power should be granted to us, but it
came not.
“Once, on raising our hands slowly together, the table rose a few
inches from the ground, remained poised for a second or two, and then
descended suddenly. During the time the table was being moved, the
person sitting next to Mr. Slade kept his foot on the medium’s feet,
and he declares that he did not feel them move. So ended the first
seance,
“ Looking at the conditions to ascertain if one of us would be per¬
mitted to sit away from the table, we found it distinctly set out that
all present must join hands. Shortly after being seated at the table
raps were heard, and Mr. Slade informed us that the force was strong.
Soon after, the table behind, and at some distance from the medium,
was thrown over with great force. • Very little writing was done, the
power not being propitious. Both of us again held the slate, but were,
as before, informed on a slate held by Mr. Slade that no writing could be
done for us. The chair close to one of us, and at a considerable
distance from the medium, quite beyond the reach of his feet or hands,
now turned suddenly over. We asked to have the gymnastic move¬
ment repeated, and though the power, as at the previous sitting,
promised to do all that he, she, or it could, the chair was not again
moved. Shortly after, a slate held by Mr. Slade under the table
seemed to dart suddenly forward. The slate, indeed, often did this,
the medium declaring that it was pulled by some invisible power, and
that he could not retain it. On the present occasion, the slate moved
with great violence, but did not leave Mr. Slade’s hands. A loud
crash was heard, and the slate, on being again produced, was found
with a large hole punched in its centre. An accordion was now pro¬
duced and placed under the table, and while waiting for some music,
celestial or infernal—it mattered not which—Mr. Slade’s cane sud¬
denly fell into the room from an opposite corner to that at which he
was sitting. The medium had placed his hat, coat, and cane in a
corner of the room, from which the cane appeared to have travelled
unbidden, and in a most demonstrative manner. Altogether, the
spirits on this occasion were boisterous in their manifestations. The
force was unmistakably strong, and the medium appeared from time
to time much agitated. A bell was now placed on the floor under the
table. Mr. Slade sat sideways, one foot away from the table, and on
the other one of us placed his foot. The power had promised us to
play the accordion, but did not keep bis word. While the instrument
was under the table*the sliding top was wrenched off and jerked acrots
the room. Some few notes were touched, but no tune was played.
Feb. 21, 1879.
) | The bell here suddenly made its appearance, coming up between Mr.
(| Slade and the person who sat next to him, striking the latter on the
rj shoulder, and falling on the table. The small table again turned
) | turtle, and the medium appeared greatly frightened and distressed.
(| Here the seance ended, Mr. Slade inviting each of us to drop in some
(i evening, when he would be more at liberty than in the daytime, and
) | when he believed we should witness the manifestations which we
(| so much desired. With respect to the levitating of the furniture, Mr.
j i Slade believes that can be accounted for by the electricity engendered
.) j in the atmosphere, but the writing he declares to be directed by some
(I higher intelligence. He appears to regard it as his greatest feat, and
j I it certainly is marvellous.”
) | The Herald then adds another of its reports, describing a stance.
It TBACES OF LAW IN THE APPEARANCES OF SPIRITS,
(| EMBODIED AND UNEMBODIED*
( i BY W. STAINTON MOSES, M A.
! The chief value of these meetings has always seemed to
i me to be that they afford a regular and simple means of
/1 interchange of thought and experience for those who are
I interested in a common pursuit. Here we may bring our
11 ideas, our experiences, our difficulties, and our theories, with
! the certainty that they will meet with patient attention and
I careful sifting. As an educational process this is simply
j I necessary.
| At the present moment it is simply invaluable. And this
(| view it is that influences me in doing what I can to keep up
| the interest in these meetings. We have come to a crisis in
| the public—mind, not at all in the domestic or private—
(| development of Spiritualism. That has come to pass which
| they, whose eyes have been open to the tendency of events,
| have seen to be inevitable.
A constant repetition of phenomena, unexplained by a
I coherent philosophy ; the reiterated discovery of fraud; the
! wide prevalence of folly; the frequent suggestion of untruth,
(| have shaken the popular mind. Phenomenal Spiritualism
/1 does not satisfy; and there has gone up, there is going up
| all round us, a cry, which to me is one of most pathetic
| i earnestness, for something that shall satisfy the inner yearning
11 that cannot feed on these husks.
Phenomenal Spiritualism not only does not satisfy this
craving, it introduces a gradually-increasing element of
| uncertainty and perplexity into the mind. The border-land
(i between the world of matter, and that to which the gates that
I are set ajar give access, is a land of fantasy : a land where
j human judgment finds itself without a standard to which it
I j can always appeal; a land where the canons of human
criticism are little worth, and where human experience
ransacks the past in vain for precedents, and finds (as George
I f Macdonald puts it in David Elginbrod) thati( verisimilitude
|{ is no essential element of truth.”
! The mental attitude engendered by this introduction to a
h new order of things is one of insecurity. The mind was
| never yet constructed, I believe, which (being healthy and
11 sound) can continue to observe a number of phenomena
? | without seeking to discover the law that governs them. The
) | time comes to all of us—to some later than to others—when
! we must strive after this law. Its discovery, however, is no
) | easy matter.
11 For, first, it is not easy to know what is a fact—to
(j differentiate the true from the false when we have no known
)! standard, and when what seems true shades so imperceptibly
i j. into what seems false. It is not easy, when one has not the
\ | key, to unlock the secrets that accumulate around us, and
) | cause bewilderment and anxiety by the very consciousness
| ] • that we have in us that me can't unlock them. It is not easy,
(| in many cases, to get face to face with the intelligent operator,
) j and one feels rather as if one were the victim in a game of
11 spiritual blind man’s buff.
I Then fraud and trick and buffoonery step in to compli¬
cate matters still more, and to make the phenomena (which
in their proper place, as the signs that testify to the under¬
lying philosophy, are beautiful and true) mean, and con¬
temptible, and puerile, and ludicrous, by divesting them of
| their true significance, and linking them with the accidents
of imposture and deceit.
And so it has come to pass that those who have devoted
most time and pains to the subject have reached a point—
whether spirit-guided I do not presume to say—where they
I * A paper read before the British National Association of Spiritualists at last Monday’s
Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, February 17 th, 1879.
Feb. 21, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
93
must take a new departure. Their mental estimates have j
been changed. They must construct a new scale. Their \
philosophy has been shattered. They must reconstruct a new j
scheme from new experience. Their religion, in its external i
form, has been modified, shaken, shattered, perhaps anni¬
hilated. They must look for another system. They must |
seek, if haply they may find a truer, nobler faith, suited to the |
greater light that is in them. Whether that system be one !
already existent, or whether it be evolved from the neces- I
si ties of the yearning spirit within, or whether it be suggested
in germ by the ever-watchful guardian, and moulded by the
pressure of circumstances; or whether, like the holy city, the
New Jerusalem, it descend out of heaven from God, with a
beauty not of earth, and a Divine adaptation to extraordinary
needs, such as was the voice of inspiration to the prophet of j
old, all this will depend chiefly on idiosyncrasy.
But in some way, and at some crisis in the experience,
all earnest thinkers, children of the new dispensation, who j
come within the sphere of this spiritual influence, will be j
driven to correlate their facts with a philosophy, and with |
some form of religion. To these it will matter little, once j
they have grasped the phenomena and made them their own, !
whether they are ever represented. The external system, the !
concrete system, typified by the phenomena, may die. Nay,
it may be in some cases, the Pauline analogy will be true.
It will not be quickened except' it die; but dying, it will bear j
abundant fruit. That which is of the earth, earthy, must |
give place to the reign of spirit, and the physical be super- j
seded by the spiritual, in just such sort as the physical body, j
dead and buried, is replaced by the resurrection body of the |
new life.
Now, some of us have reached this place where two roads j
diverge. Some of us, I say, for we must not expect that |
there will ever come a time when the simplest and most j
elementary phenomena will not be necessary to some, aye, j
to many for whom they form the only adit to spiritual |
knowledge. For some, I verily believe, during the whole j
period of their bodily life, these phenomena, appealing as j
they do to the bodily sense, will be as essential as the daily
meal to the physical system. The members of the one body
have varied needs, and the wise agencies of the all-wise
Father have various ways of satisfying them.
But for some of us the time has come, by a beautiful and
orderly evolution, when the cry for spiritual enlightenment
is bearing its fruit. The husk is being cast aside, because
the time of germination has come, and it is the spring-time
of spirit.
This has been very clear from the tone of the papers that
have lately been read here, and especially from the corres¬
pondence that they have elicited in the Spiritualist.
The papers which Mr. Harrison, Miss Kislingbury, and I
have lately read here have been concerned with the action of
embodied and unembodied, or, perhaps, disembodied spirit.
I spoke of the action of disembodied spirit through a
medium, Mr. Harrison of the action of unembodied spirit
without a medium, and Miss Kislingbury of the rarer and
less-known action of the embodied human spirit.
Can we discern any underlying law that governs these
phenomena ? Miss Kislingbury described some of the
phenomena which she recorded as apparently objectless. (I
do not profess to quote her exact words.) They were, as
I may say, the vagaries of a wandering spirit, in some cases
at least.
Perhaps some light may be thrown upon such phenomena
by the community of sensation which has been observed in
the case of those between whom there is a strong natural or
induced rapport, such as that which exists in the case of
persons twin-born, and between a powerful mesmeriser and
his subject. Dr. Passavant records such a case of sympathy
between a sister and her twin-brother. She was suddenly
seized with unaccountable horror, followed by a strange con¬
vulsion which, the doctor said, resembled the struggles and
sufferings of a person in drowning. Her brother, then
abroad, was drowned at that precise time, as was afterwards
ascertained. There the accident of birth provided the inti¬
mate rapport.
The same phenomenon is frequently observed in the case
of a mesmeriser and bis patient.
[Transoorp. Action. Human Nature, July 1877, p. 297.]
In the cases recorded by Miss Kislingbury it may be that
I there was a magnetic rapport between the persons of whom
j she speaks. Strong community of feeling, identity of in-
| terest, an interblending of the personality might set up con¬
ditions in which the astral spirit might make itself tempo¬
rarily manifest. The link is often too subtle for us to
discover ; but I believe that we shall find a link in all cases.
None of these things are objectless. It is that we are too
dense to discover the rationale.
Nothing, indeed, is more curious than the strange links of
attraction that we can discover. The depths of the nature
when stirred seem to cloud the spiritual faculties and to
defeat the desired object by the very intensity of the forces
| that are set in action, but causes the most trivial will
operate when the power of transcorporeal action is present.
There is a familiar story of a cook in the Sister’s House
j at Ebersdorf, whose double was constantly seen by the herb-
| bed, her natural body being in the kitchen, when she wanted
| some herb for her stews. il There you were again by the
I onion-bed” was a standing joke against her. Her mind,
directed to a very trivial matter, caused an apparition of
herself to be seen, and that, apparently, by a number of
persons.
This same projection of thought, intensified by mental
anxiety, has, in many authenticated cases, produced an
apparition. Dr. Kerner (in his Blatter aus Prevost) records
such a case.
[Transcorp. Action. Human Nature, July 1877, p.,298.]
We have then got thus far.
T. There is an observable community of sensation in the case
of some persons such as twins.
2. Where the power of disengaging the spiritual body exists
either naturally or by development, very simple causes will
set it in action.
3. This power is intensified by any mental anxiety.
This transcorporeal action exists with much frequency
during sleep.
Sir Humphrey Davy records such a case of himself.
He was in bed asleep, and dreamed that he was ill in Italy.
| The details were most vivid—the room, furniture, his nurse,
! | a young girl whose features he remembered distinctly. He
j | thought no more of it, but the details were imprinted on
II his mind. Some years after he was actually taken ill
I j while travelling in Italy; he did occupy the very room he
II had seen in his dream or vision, and was nursed by the
11 very same young woman whose features he remembered so
I well.
We must all know or have read cases in which the spirit,
! I liberated during the sleep of the body, remembers more or
j | less perfectly what it then experiences. In this category
[ | come all the cases of prophetic dreams and warnings which,
11 however little we may be able to explain them, are too
! | numerous to put aside as coincidences.
Cases of activity of spirit outside of the sleeping body
11 present less difficulty, it may be admitted, than do those
| I equally authenticated cases where the body is active as
[ | well as the spirit, but in different spheres of action. Many
11 such cases are within my knowledge, and they are to me
11 inexplicable, except on the hypothesis of a sub-division of
| consciousness, or of the control of the body by an external
| spirit, or, alternatively, of the personation of the spirit of
I the individual whose apparition is recognised by another
| spirit. Unless we admit a sub-division of consciousness, an
| external agency must be postulated.
| We go one step further, then.
| 4. This power exists naturally and frequently during sleep.
Many recorded cases also point to its action during
| abnormal states of the medium.
! Judge Edmunds records that a circle at New York used
| regularly to evoke the spirit of the medium then sitting at
| a circle in Boston, and obtain communication from him, and
| vice versa. His daughter, in certain abnormal states, had
I the power of projecting her spirit. So had Mrs. Tappan,
I and Mrs. E. Hardinge Brittain, and other mediums of my
| acquaintance. It would seem that one note of mediumship
I is the facility with which the spiritual body is disengaged
| from the trammels of the physical body, and that in a high
| degree of development the spirit suffers no lack or cessation
1 of consciousness.
94
Feb. 21,1879
THE SPIRITUALIST.
One point more, therefore. j j
5. This'power is an attribute of what we call mediumship, m
and exists in the highest degree in those in whom psychic power j <. j
is most developed. j j j
We shall be prepared, by what we have now observed, to j j I
lay down one more law, or rather to note how the stirring | (j
of the inner nature under the influence of affection pro- jjj
duces these phenomena. Love is the strongest motive- | j j
power that spirit knows; and the cases are very numerous i (|
when it has caused an objective appearance. Such a case j i
is recorded very circumstantially in Glimpses of the m
Supernatural by the Rev. F. G. Lee. It is too long for j |
quotation, but the facts are these : A lady and her husband |) j
were, returning from India in 1854, when she was taken m
dangerously ill in Egypt. She was aware of her danger, I /1
and had one desire only—to see her children who were in m
England. On the day of her death she fell into a deep j j
sleep, from which she woke suddenly, saying that she had j
been and had seen her children. Shortly after she departed. I j
At the time of her sleep it was ascertained that the |j
children, then at Torquay with a friend, were playing in the j !
house during a thunderstorm. All were in one room, and j j
each, together with a nursemaid, saw a lady in white come | |
into the room, and slowly glide by and fade away. The j |
three elder children recognised their mother. The date, | j
September 10, 1854, and time were noted, and the two j|
events above recorded were found to have taken place jj|
simultaneously. j
I need not multiply instances. They are on the tongue j <
of every one who has paid attention to these subjects. |)
Referring in passing to one of the most remarkable cases j j
of the kind, which I recorded on the authority of Mr. Cole- j
man, in Human Nature, July, 1877, p. 295, I pass on to !
note 11
6. The most active cause of such appearances is the Law of j
Love. !
We have seen that the spirit wanders readily while the ||
body is asleep. There is another state, akin to sleep, in h
which it also finds it easy to manifest at a distance from the ij j
body. Before and at the time of death, as well as for a |
variable period after death, the spirit frequently leaves the j
body and follows its impulses of anxiety or affection. It
seems as though it ,were hovering between this world and j
the next, not yet free, yet not so closely prisoned as before, j
Numberless cases of death warnings, death compacts, and of j
apparitions at the time of death are recorded, and that on j j
testimony the most authentic. In many such cases the j) i
wandering spirit is moved by care. Worldly affairs need j !
settling; an injustice has been done, and must be remedied ; (
sometimes even the most trivial business will, being “on j
the mind,” suffice to send the spirit wandering. Or, again, | j
affection is at work, and drives the spirit to visit those loved j j
friends or relatives from whom it is to be shortly separated, j |
or whom it has left behind. Many such apparitions occur at j j
the time of death, or very shortly after, before the spirit jjj
takes its leave of the earth, and “goes to its own place.” uj
This leads us to another law. ! j
7. The time of death is one when the spirit is most free to jjl
wander, and most frequently manifests its presence at a dis- ]
tance from the body. m
What has been said applies chiefly to cases where the j |
apparition is that of a spirit still in the flesh. I believe j.j j
the laws that govern the return of the departed are much j j
the same, save that with them there is one more motive to j j
be superadded, viz., guardianship over those committed to j I
their care, and the fulfilment of the mission with which
some of them have been entrusted. In some cases, too, it i j
would seem that the spirit that manifests its presence in j j
a manner which our superior wisdom would call objectless, j !
is really occupied in a process of purification—is working i I
out its salvation, and rising, through labour and suffering, ! !
to a state of greater progress. I I
Many cases of the return of departed spirits that have i !
occurred in my own experience have been referable to the I !
commands of a spirit higher than themselves, who directed i I
their action for a special and beneficial purpose. j| j
Hauntings are referable, usually, if not always, to the ]||
action of earth-bound spirits. In some cases, “where the j j
treasure is, there is the heart also; ” in others, a crime p
has been wrought, and the spirit is linked with it till ex¬
piation has been made. In others, cupidity and avarice
have survived, and bind the spirit to earth. The laws are
in all cases to be found in the affections, the desires, or the
passions, or else in the effects of deeds done in the body.
No doubt we may discover stories of apparitions for which
no adequate motive can be discovered; but first of all we
must be sure that, in such cases, the appearance was
objective, not the fancy of an excited brain or the mere
projection of thought acting on a sensitive, but a positive
objective presentation. In such a case the reasons dis¬
coverable in almost all cases may well lead us to believe
that there is a motive, only lying too deep for us to discover
it at once ; and that one or more of the motive-springs of
spirit has been secretly touched.
The sum of what I have said may be stated thus :—
1. We have general indications of what we may expect
in our search for law in the observable community of sen¬
sations, e.g., in twins, and between the mesmeriser and his
subject.
2. So far as we can see, the power of action independent
of the body is inherent in spirit; only some are more
closely prisoned than others.
3. It apparently exists in the highest degree in those
whom we call mediums.
4. In all cases it operates freely during bodily sleep, or
when the body is in repose.
5. It acts more freely still in a medium who is in a state of
entrancement.
6. It is especially active immediately before, at, or just
after the time of death.
7. Very trivial causes—a mere desire to get something
that is wished for—will suffice to liberate the spirit and
allow it to appear apart from the body.
8. Any disturbing cause that stirs the depths of the
spiritual or mental being, such as mental anxiety, acts more
powerfully still.
9. But the most potent motive-spring of all is affection.
10. The return of the departed would seem to be affected
by—
{a) Mental anxiety, e.g., about worldly business that has
been left unsettled.
(5) Affection for those left behind.
(c) Guardianship.
id) Distinct mission of mercy or instruction entrusted
to “ ministering spirits ” by those higher than themselves.
Lastly. Haunting spirits are usually earth-bound, and
even bound to certain localities with which their earthly
life has been associated.
In some cases they would seem to exercise a certain
monitory care over certain families, manifesting themselves
only before death of certain members of them, or at epochs
in the family history.
They are usually unhappy, and may frequently be released
by the presence of a medium or by prayer.
I have, no doubt, omitted much; I have designedly con¬
fined myself to brief notices of what I have dwelt upon ;
and I do not presume to do more than suggest material for
reflection.
<ffflm0ponT)ence.
[ Cir eat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
he returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.]  
MEDIUMSHIP AND MEDICINE.
Sir,—A few remarks contained in a letter received from Dr. F. L. H.
Willis, of America, some months ago, relative to the exhaustion sus¬
tained by mediums, and the action of homoeopathic medicines upon
them, has struck me might prove useful to some of your readers.
Dr. Willis, who visited this country several years ago, is known to
be a medium of eminently refined power, and his reputation as a
physician in America is on a par with the best, some of his cures
having been most remarkable.
My object being only to circulate information of a physiological fact
regarding those who have for a long period been under the immediate
sensible action of spirits, I hope I shall be acquitted of egotism when
those remarks apply more particularly to myself. The same law holds
good, more or less, for all; and a knowledge of those laws which are
essential for the preservation in health of a body changed as the bodies
of mediums sooner or later become, will obviate much dangerous
blundering.
Feb. 21,1879.
95
THE SPIRITUALIST.
I append those portions of Dr. Willis’s letter which may be useful
to many:— j
“ For a long time your forces have been drawn upon by spirits and
mortals both, with no commensurate return, and the result, as is always
inevitable in such cases, is that at the great nerve centres there is ex- I
haustion of nervo-vital force and functional derangement of all the
organs controlled by the nerves that meet at those centres. Especially I
is this the case with liver, spleen, stomach, and heart; they are all
functionally disordered from failure of force in the governing nerves of
each, especially the heart and spleen.
“When a person has been long subject to spiritual influences, the
body itself becomes spiritualised to a greater or less extent, and cannot j
bear crude drug forces. This is eminently the case with you. You I
should never think of taking anything below the thirtieth attenuations I
of homoeopathy ; from the thirtieth to two hundredth. These are so
spiritualised or dynamised by the process of attenuation that they act
as spiritual forces in the system, and are readily assimilated by the
spirit as aids in controlling the body.”
Thus crude drugs, and sometimes the lower attenuations of homoso- j
pathic preparations, become obstructions, painful, and perhaps equiva¬
lent to disease, to the healthful or preservative action of the spirit upon
its earthly tenement—an action strengthened and intensified as the .
body, losing its grossness, becomes more amenable to those laws con¬
trolling more especially the spirit, And the coarse, violent action of
crude drugs must necessarily have a destructive effect upon bodies
which are undergoing, or have undergone, this species of change,
sapping the very foundations of life. Catherine Woodforde.
90, Great Russell-street, February 16th.
A request.
Sir,—May I ask any of your readers to assist my astrological studies
in the following way ? I am endeavouring to prove (or disprove) the
signification of “ houses ” in one particular branch of astrology (solar
revolutions) by a strictly inductive method. For this purpose, I require
a greater number of instances than I can obtain by private application
to friends and from published nativities, and an appeal through your
columns may possibly bring me a larger supply. What I want is the
time of birth within an hour; the place of birth; and the dates of any j
bereavement (including fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, husbands,
and wives) of any serious illness of the person giving the information,
or of any of the above specified relatives. Also of marriage, birth of
children, appointment to office, promotion, &c. I do not ask for names,
as your paper does not circulate among people who are likely to practise
any silly hoax upon me. Anonymous information on a post-card to the
subscribed address will be gratefully received.—Yours,
C. C. Massey.
4, Harcourt-buildings, Temple, E.O., Feb. 17th, 1879.
STRANGE ASSERTIONS THROUGH MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—The Primitive World is, properly speaking, a highly interesting
medial dictation, wherein the origin of our globe is clearly traced out.
Three planets in process of formation, while wandering through space,
were hurled one against the other, and became united in the shock of
meeting. Chance played no part in this amalgamation; it was brought
about by the law of attraction. This triple origin has determined the
triplicity of the human peoples, who are always the visible manifes¬
tation of latent forms. As matter, although one in essence, becomes
differentiated in combination, each of these globes impregnated in dif¬
ferent proportions with the inherent forces of matter brought its con¬
tingent of energy, and introduced into the whole dissimilitudes which
were faithfully reproduced in the constitutional aptitudes of each race.
The indigenous races of each planet lived at first on the soil that had
witnessed their birth, then, increasing in numbers, they spread about,
and eventually came in collision with their neighbours, as their respective
planets had done with each other, when, after fighting and struggling with
one another, they became united, without, however, losing the distinctive
stamp that marked their peculiarities. The history of the planet runs
in parallel lines with that of its inhabitants; the same universal law
inexorably calling for implicit obedience is seen everywhere. If man,
who is but a microcosm, is obliged to develope and suffer in order to rise
to the height of his capabilities, so it is likewise with the earth, which
also lives an existence proper to itself. Its infancy is marked, like
man’s, with exuberance of uncultivated growth, and no progress can be
made but at the price of anguish and suffering, as shown by the
periodical cataclysms separated by intervals of 30,000 years of tranquil
development. Each cataclysm is followed by a step in advance, and
humanity, which has, like the earth, to pass through periods of con¬
fusion and disturbance, can only rise through suffering to a higher state.
Such is the law which rules us still, for after having traced upon a
blank map the principal geographical lines of the ancient world, where
the Mediterranean is represented by a river, where Plato’s Atlantis is
seen approaching to the centre of what afterwards was to be America,
and after having mentioned the submergement of this Atlantis, which
disappeared in the depth of the ocean to allow America to grow up out
of the water in its place, the inspired medium foretold us of new dis¬
asters. In six thousand years the inclination of the earth’s axis will be
again changed. England will be, as it was formerly, reunited to France,
and the Atlantis resuscitated, like the island of Santorin, will reappear
radiant in beauty, while New York will join the infinite number of cities,
whose names even have not reached us, that lie at the bottom of the sea.
I only indicate here briefly the chief features of this book, which is
calculated to excite the greatest interest, for every one must wish to
know how the planets are formed and the history of the stars, and will
pause to consider the certainly strange theory of the androgynal man
that preceded bi-sexual humanity. By a curious chance I find myself
in a position to be able, perhaps, to supply some evidence in favour of
j the assertion of the spirit. I brought with me from Mexico, among
other curious things, several statuettes of Aztec deities ; among the
number there is one which so unmistakably marks a complete her
| maphrodeity, that upon reading the Primitive World my attention was
drawn to it. May it not be that in this little figure of the greatest
j antiquity there is shown the recollection of a tradition referring to the
| revelation of the existence of these primitive androgynes ? All Spirit¬
ualists know M. Pierart, the founder and almost the only writer in the
i Revue Spiritualiste, le Concile de la libra pensee, and le Penedictin de
i St. Maur. A single-minded man of vigorous temperament, incapable of
compromising the truth, the love of which he pushes to its extreme
j limit, he has defended Spiritualism for thirty years. He is loved by all
I who know him, and appreciated by all who have read him. He was
| about to finish his labours by founding a little society of sympathetic
j Spiritualists, who would work together for the propagation of truth,
j The idea is praiseworthy, and if the ill health of the founder has
j delayed its execution, let us hope that upon recovering his strength he
will be able to carry it out. Such a revelation as that which I have
just sketched could not fail to greatly impress an investigator of M.
j Pierart’s stamp. Although he may allow his thoughts to soar in the
| supernal regions, he does permit himself to be unduly carried away by
j enthusiasm. His disposition would be sceptical were not his faith so
j great. The intellectual scalpel is his favourite weapon; and what is not
less curious than the revelation itself is the patient investigation he has
| made, and the scrupulous exactness he has employed, to corroborate, by
quotations from authors of undisputed authority, the statements of his
I medium. Every chapter dictated to him is followed by another intended
| to elucidate the communication, and it is marvellous to see savans, both
| ancient and modern, with investigators of acknowledged merit, called
j upon by M. Pierart to give their testimony in favour of his statements.
I Our friend has promised us a series of publications in continuation of
| the Primitive World. Let us hope that his restored health will enable
| him to keep his promise, and that I shall have to draw the attention of
] the readers of The Spiritualist to other wonderful things.
F. Clavairoz.
i Paris.  
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN BIRMINGHAM.
Sir,—I send an account of a few of our sittings. The circle is held
' ! at 57, Yyse, Birmingham. Mr. John Summerfield and Mr. Thomas
i ( Horton are the mediums. A seance is held every Monday evening, and
I j is free to all earnest investigators, who are proposed and accepted by the
[ j members of the circle; but all friends from a distance calling will
) | receive a cordial welcome. A second stance is held every Thursday, but
! I is strictly private. At our first seance, January 6th, 1879, the light was
| turned out, and two bells, a violin, and tambourine were played upon,
| and floated round the room all at one time; the sitters were touched by
| materialised hands, and beautiful lights were seen in all parts of the
) I room. A chair was carried from one end of the room, over the table,
I to the other end. At our subsequent sitting materialised forms were
| j felt, and heard walking about outside the circle, at the far end of the
i room, away from the medium, the medium meanwhile patting his hand
/1 on the table to show us that no trickery was being enacted. The violin
( | was played upon and floated from one end of the room to the other, the
) | spirits rapping it against the wall to inform us where it was. A pair of
) | large tongs were taken from the fireplace, and beat time to the singing
| in all parts of the room.
| At our next sitting, and according to a promise made by the controls,
II three wild birds were brought into the room and given to the sitters.
|! One sitter, who was not sitting in the circle, had his necktie taken off,
j! and a lady her brooch from her dress; the brooch was handed to her
(| husband at the other side of the room. A little girl, the medium’s
\ j daughter, was lifted from her chair and placed on the table.
) j At our private seances the members number nine persons. We have
(! had some wonderful manifestations, such, for instance, as materialised
) j forms standing on our shoulders ; the hands allowed us to give them a
} j firm grasp, and to examine the muscles and the beating of the pulse.
\ i At our next seance this was repeated, but instead of the feet and legs of
) | the forms being clothed they were naked. Bare arms have been felt to
/ J the elbow.
j ] At our next seance a naked foot was felt by some of the sitters. The
11 foot was icy cold, but flexible; one of the outside sitters felt four different
/1 hands at one time, and the feet, and at last a form of great weight stood
(| on his knees. The naked foot was placed on the head and forehead of
) j one of the sitters.
(| I may say that we place the utmost confidence in the medium, several of
{| the sitters having been present at many of the tests he has been subjected
/ i to ; and in every case, when physical manifestations are going on, his
] hands are heard beating the table. As we progress we will forward
II anything we may think will be worth your readers knowing.
j | John Colly, Sec.
) | 312, Bridge-street, West, Birmingham, Feb. 17th, 1879.
(! The first pamphlet, or booklet, ever published in connection with
j | modern Spiritualism was by a Mr. Lewis, shortly before Mr. Capron’s
)! book was issued in the United States. Its title was, A Report of the
|| Mysterious Noises heard in the House of Mr. John D. Fox,inHydes-
( ville, Arcadia.
| i Is it a True Prophetic Dream ?—The Daily Chronicle of last
| i week (Tuesday) says:—“ Yesterday morning the Deal magistrates
) j sentenced a seaman, named George Wylds, to two months’ imprison-
| i ment for refusing to proceed to sea in the barque Vmzinto, on a
\ | voyage from London to Port Natal. The man told the magistrates
) | that he was satisfied with the ship, officers, and food ; but he had had
y j a dream that the ship would be lost, and would not go to sea in her
j j for any amount of money. Once before he had a dream that a vessel
in which he was sailing would be lost, and it was lost.”
96
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 21, 1879.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
In the account of the conversion of Catherine de Sandoval,
the following incident is related
“ Soon afterwards [Le., after her first call to the religious
life] she was favoured with a remarkable vision which,
nearly twenty years afterwards, she related to St. Teresa.
‘ She told me,’ says the saint, (that she went to bed one
night, desiring to discover the most perfect religious Order on
earth in order that she might enter it; and she dreamt
that she was going along a very narrow path, in the greatest
peril of falling down deep precipices which lay on each
side of her, when a person, in the dress of a friar, said to
her, ie Sister, come along with me.” He took her to a con¬
vent in which were many nuns, and where she saw no light
except that which came from the candles in their hands.
She inquired to what Order they belonged. All were silent;
but they lifted up their veils, and, smiling, showed her their
happy countenances. The Prioress took her by the hand
and said, “ My child, I wish you to be here,” showing her,
at the same time, the rule and constitutions.’
“ From this time, 1565, Catherine persevered in her purpose
to enter religion in the Order which had been thus revealed
to her; and after eighteen years of painful trials, arising
from the apparition of friends, and long and severe illness,
from which she was at last miraculously restored, she ascer¬
tained from one of the Jesuit fathers that the vision which
she had seen had reference to the new Carmelite reform.
“ In the Lent of 1575, permission having been with great
difficulty obtained from the Knights of St. James for the
foundation [of a new convent], St. Teresa-began her journey
to Yeas, with Mother Anne of Jesus, whom she summoned
from Salamanca to undertake the government of the new
convent.
“ As the travellers were passing the high mountain peak
of the Sierra Morena they lost their way, and came to a
point where it seemed equally perilous to advance or to
recede. The Saint enjoined her sisters to recommend them¬
selves to God and to St. Joseph in a strait where human aid
seemed hopeless. A voice, as from the highest peak,
answered them: 4 Stay where you are; if you pass on you
will be dashed down the precipice.’ The muleteers instantly
stopped, and asked the friendly voice to point out to them
the way of safety. They were directed along a path so pre¬
cipitous, that nothing short of a miracle could have enabled
them to follow it. When the fearful passage had been safely
made, some of the party wished to go in search of their
benefactor. 41 do not know,’ said St. Teresa to the nuns,
as the men set off upon their search, 4 why we have let them
go; for it was my Father, St. Joseph, whom assuredly they
will not find.’ In fact, they returned after a fruitless search,
and from that moment the mules travelled with such rapidity
that the muleteers swore they went rather like birds than
beasts, as if the rugged rocks had been changed into a
smooth and easy road. On February 18th the party reached
the entrance of Yeas, where the principal citizens, who had
come forth on horseback to do them honour, brought them
in triumph to the church, where the priests in their cottas
were waiting for them, and preceded by the cross, and
accompanied by the two ladies of Sandoval and other nobility
of the place, they were conducted in procession to the house
of Dona Catherine. As soon as she was alone with the nuns
they raised their veils, and the joy of that faithful and long-
suffering heart was full, for she recognised the faces she had
seen in her vision. She recognised also the friar who had
guided her in her dream in the person of the venerable
brother John of Misery, who had come to meet the holy
mother at Yeas.
44 The convent of St. Joseph the Deliverer was founded on
the feast of St. Matthias, in the house of the ladies of
Sandoval, who on the same day received the religious habit,
with the names of Catherine and Mary of Jesus.”—From the
Life of St. Teresa^ edited by Cardinal Manning.
At the reading of the paper of Mr. Stainton Moses, before the
National Association of Spiritualists last Monday night, Mr. H. Wedg¬
wood occupied the chair. The speakers were Mr. G. R. G. Tapp, Mr.
J. W. Fletcher, Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. R. A. March, and Mr. Wedg- j
wood, who proposed a vote of thanks to Mr. Stainton Moses, seconded !
by Mr. F. W, Percival. i
SORROW.
BT DOLLIB MAITLAND.
Therb’s a beauty in sorrow that joy cannot give,
When the soul seems to fly to her Maker above,
To ask for the pity that nowhere can live,
Except in the birthplace and cradle of love :
’Tis a chain that unites the child to its home,
A chord which is touched by the angels in heaven,
A guide, that our feet may not wander or roam,
A taste of the happiness yet to be given.
The links of the chain are slender—slender,
They are gently joined by the angels’ tears ;
And their touch on the chain is Render—-tender,
As they sigh to our hearts that the Father hears.
We feel our hearts stirred by the distant whisper,
We are filled with the breath of the spirits above,
And the chords in our hearts softly move to the murmur,
When we gaze on the faces and scenes that we love.
The beauty that moves us speaks ever of sorrow,
It fills us with sadness, though dimly sweet;
’Tis the sigh of the angels our trembling hearts borrow,
For they know that our pleasures are never complete.
The soul ever longeth—it yearneth and pineth
For the home and the beauty from which it was torn,
And the shadow of splendour that round it extendeth,
Makes it sigh for the beauties to which it was born.
Will be ready in a few days,
SPIRIT-IDENTITY,
By M.A. (Oxon).
Cloth 8vo, red edges, price 5s, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
44 RIFTS IN THE YEIL ”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN TIBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
IVie Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges,
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spmtualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Feb. 21, 1879
THE SPIRITUALIST
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOOT,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published, to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor o.
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals .were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
Inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BT ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.”
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III. „
TheReformei „ IV. „
The Thinker. „ V. . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. .
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the Peop.e
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual .
Death and the After-Life . . . •
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . •
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
. he Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures .....
d.
15 0
7 6
T 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
2 0
3 6
3 6
7 0
3 6
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . ‘
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds ......
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) '. . .
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . :
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ....
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts
The Life and Teachings of Confticius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
pretod by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind"; or. A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaistkesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 G
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople . ... 1 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
'The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them ; the facts, therefore, should he multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘drop about ’ cr
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authoe and Other
Observers in London,
by william h. Harrison.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is, Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, IF. (7.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, hut also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every.reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and ‘hose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—NomIA Wales Daily
News
Limp doth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV ^Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Herbert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proof* of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Rovd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—^Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune:
Chapter XVI Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt —
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory—Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPEE.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes's
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot bo had separately. Price,
carriage.paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, JE110s.
London: W. II. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new hook by
“ M.A. (OXON), ’ ON
PSYCHO GKAP II Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I. —That Attested by the Senses:— ‘
1. Of Sight Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II. —From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—E> idence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black-
hum (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation ol
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Siade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J
Page Hopps, W.H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wvld
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Proiessor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The N ature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place in public libraries, and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ O ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
tranoe-mediumship oi Gora L. V. Tappan-Riehmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of
Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium
Ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life o) Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals
By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marry at.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A.
Oxon.”
XVII Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adeiuia Von Vay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burxe.
XXII—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—‘‘ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “H.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIll.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV. — The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“ M.A , Os.on."
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Predic :ion. By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis¬
lingbury
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science, By W.H. Harrison.
XL Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Cald er.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
xLfl Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XIjIII.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. ByLisette iMakdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for Cd.
THE SPIEITTJALIST.
Feb. 21, 1879
iv
Price 6d.; post free, 7jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OP SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. P. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, Janies
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
MRS. PARKER’S NEW ART OF HEALING.
(Scientific, Psychological, and Restorative.)
66, WARWICK STREET, BELGRAYE ROAD, S.W,
N.B.—References to eminent medical gentlemen.
Lectures to Ladies on Wednesdays, 'at 3 o’clock: subject,
‘ Health.” Her Tonic for the Skin gives youth and bloom,
instead of age and wrinkles. When conditions are favourable
Mrs. Parker is clairvoyant.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
Eubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
he problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
IN thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser of the radiometer, and discoverer of the
new metal thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Yarley, Prof. Zbllner, and a great
number of intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and wdthout deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
are not), they are so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every household, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and
two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtained, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. fehould no results be obtained at the first two stances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences, 1
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.'—16. Wirbel-bewegung. —17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.
24. The Public Analyst.—25. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welconie from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“No.one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’-’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and. so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint hears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine,
How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.... Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“ In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
Frbm The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...‘How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself... . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover. ... If oui readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the mgoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is * How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not gjve an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous....
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequa
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.” »-
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in.
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may be read many times over. ..The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” \N. B. An
irate member of the Town Council'officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,’’ but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is "bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.’’
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late "Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author'by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
" in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs. Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in YariousWays—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—-Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—^Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retro vision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentiaUy the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—■
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric -
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extatics not all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S li ritual
World.
CHAPTER VHI: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reiohenbaeh—His Odyle is Identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications o*
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan
ity. Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Suhiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Studentz-Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis's Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Ma^ic Crystal Induces Waking'
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised. Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER Xlll:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight oui of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases: Sir J. Franklin; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVICurative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridgb & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Amdrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London E.G.
