Begisteeed as a Newspaper.
Wyt #Ifresf j§p|® toit| Spiritualism iu €r^at Iritaitr.
No. 398.—(Yol. XYI.—No. 15.) LONDON: FRIDAY, APRIL 9, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty's Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can he given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, HANOVER. PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
JxrsT Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING- LIBRARY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
33, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may be had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a Year, exclusive of the cost of postage of books.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue.
THE THEOSOPHIST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEYOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY,
LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. BLAVATSKY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to u The Proprietors of £ The Theosophistj ” at the above address.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-booh by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that tbe author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms * a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the benefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with having written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.O.
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Abril 9, 1880,
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLEKGYMAN ON SPIKITTJ ALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
Will Lecture at Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
ALLAN KARDEC’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubneb and Co., London.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painf ul maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
MESMERIC HEALING.
NATURE’S CHIEF RESTORER OF IMPAIRED
VITALITY.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVENTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W.
D. YOUNGER,
By this mysterious gift of God to man, the most
shattered constitutions can be built up in a short
time, acute cases cured in a few minutes, all pangs
and pains disappearing and health restored simply by
the influence thus imparted has the property of re¬
storing an equilibrium of the vital forces, thus giving
a new life-power to the nervous or feeble patient.
Any form of mediumship developed. Clairvoyance a
speciality.
Mesmerism and healing taught. Written instructions
with anointing oil for home use, or self-treatment.
Address all letters,
D. YOUNGER,
Moscow House (corner of Moscow-road and
Hereford-road), Bays water, London.
Stamped directed envelope for reply.
■yDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
J-Y-L Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 178,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing
and Healing Medium. Any form of Medium-
ship developed. Ladies and cnildren healed by
Mesmerism. Terms according to circumstances. Days
and hours of business—Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays and Saturdays, from 1p.m. to 5 p.m.
4, Keppell-street, Russe 11-square, W.C.
Crown 8vo., pp. 166, cloth, price 3s.
AN ESSAY ON SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION,
Considered in its hearing upon Modern Spiritualism, Science and Religion.
pHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 82, Fop-
stone- road, Earls-court, S.W.
By J. P. B.
“ This is a very ingenious work. . . .His eclecticism has led him to recognize philosophic
unity and system in more than one popular scheme of metaphysics; and we have rarely
had a more complete resume of all the prevalent schools of philosophy.”—Tall Mall
Gazette.
London : Tbubneb and Co., Ludgate Hill.
32 Pages, Price 2d.; by Post, 3d.
RATIONALE OF SPIRITUALISM.
T UNACY LAW REFORM
Li ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W 0. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 pm. Saturdays 1 to 2
OTEINWAY HALL
N_} Lower Seymour Street, Portman Square, W.
MISS ADA OSBORNE,
WILL GIVE A
DRAMATIC RECITAL,
at the above hall,
On Tuesday Evening, April 13fk, 1880.
To Commence at Eight o’clock.
Miss Osborne will be assisted by
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
ost free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum*street, London, W.C,
Miss MATHELDE LENNON, Contralto.
AND
Miss ALICE BATEMAN, Pianist.
Stalls, 7s 6d. Reserved Seats, 5s. Unreserved, 2s Gd.
Balcony, Is.
Tickets to be had at the Hall, or of Miss Osbobne,
York Place, Portman Square, W.
A llegorioal sketches,
Xjl The Christmas No. of
“THE BETTER LIFE.”
Price Is. 6d.
Victoria Steah Press, 117, Praed Street, London, W.,
pi HINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Ea-then ware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system
J. M. DALE,
50, Crawford-street, Bryanston-square, London.
eJW»
eJAa
eJws
% 1^ECtiji(il of of j!t[Hjttoj nnh of ^pttpteaftojn.
No. 398.—VOLUME SIXTEEN; NUMBER EIFTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 9 tR, 18 8 0.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published "Weekly. Price Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
EDITED BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist :—
His Imperial Highness Ni-|
cholas of Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Lord Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
of Caithness
The Baroness Yon Yay, Coun¬
tess Wtirmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof,
St. Petersburg
Sib Charles Ishak, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S.
Alfred Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alexander Caldbb, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Olcott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
Gerald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne)
Captain John James
S. 0. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
Mrs. S. 0. Hall
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.
0 .Blackburn, Esq., Parkfield,
Didsbury, near Manchester
J. T. Marxlby, Esq.
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baron Yon Dirckinck-Holm-
fbld {Holstein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
the Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M. Adblberth de Bourbon
M. L. F. Clavairoz (Leon
Favre)
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. Varley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
St. George W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Friese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D,
Epbs Sargent, Esq.
Henslbigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. George Wyld
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.,
M.D., Melbourne
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq., J.P.
C. Carter Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq., B.A*
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Marthszb, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
John E. Puedon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
{Miss Florence Marry at
Madame Isabel db Steiger
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 83, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G- Parisi, Yia Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Yilla Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue Florimont, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-South, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai ; 61. East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
U.S. ; lleligio-JPhilosophieal Journal Office, Chicago ; 819, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; 326, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. 1010, Seventh-street, Wasnington.
Advertising terms on application.
THE PROSECUTION OF A MEDIUM.
Mr. F. 0. Matthews is one of those clair¬
voyant mediums, who sometimes from public
platforms are able to reveal information about
the private affairs of those they have never
seen in their lives before, even to the extent
of giving the proper and other names of
their departed relatives. Occasionally, on
the other hand, their utterances are altogether
untrustworthy, from changes in the bodily
state of the mediums, inharmony in circle, or
little understood variations in mental and
mesmeric conditions. Mr. Matthews has re¬
cently been prosecuted at Keighley, and the
following one-sided report from Keighley Herald
omits all but a bare allusion to the case for
the defence:—
MB. F. O. MATTHEWS CHARGED WITH “ SUBTLE CRAFT AND
DEVICES.”
This was a case which was adjourned from the last
court, in which Frank Owen Matthews, of Saltaire,
was charged on three separate counts, two of which
was of obtaining by certain subtle devices, certain sums
of money from various persons, and the third charge
were that he did unlawfully pretend to tell fortunes,
contrary to the statute. The prisoner who has a very
respectable looking appearance is about SO years of
age.—Mr. Neill appeared for the defence, and the
court was crowded.—Supt. Ireland, in opening the
case, said the prisoner was what was generally known
as a “ Spiritualist ” or “ clairvoyant,” and held private
stances in Eastwood-row. On the 22nd of the present
month, he thought he should be able to show by the
witnesses he should call before them, that the prisoner
had attempted to deceive them, but their Worships
would be best able to judge of the circumatancos of the
case by hearing the evidence. He should prove that
he made certain statements which were not true.—
James Sharphouse, tailor, 37, Marlborough Street,
said: On the 21st inst., which was on a Sunda, yl
went at half-past five o’clock, to hear the prisoner
at the Spiritualist Lyceum. When I got there I found
that the admission was by ticket, and saw a person
named Jonas Sunderland and two other persons,
who were selling tickets. I purchased one for six¬
pence, as the whole of the threepenny ones were
sold. On the platform I observed the prisoner, who
gave out a hymn and conducted a kind of service,
after which he went into a clairvoyant state. He
twitched his countenance, and dwelt upon the poli¬
tical, social, and religious phases of the world. (Loud
laughter.) He made the announcement that he would
give stances on the following day, and applications
were to be made to Mr. Morrell at the close
of the service. I made application to Mr. Morrell
and asked him what the charge would be. He
170
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 9, 1880.
replied that it would be five shillings. I went in
company with another man, who works at the Keigh¬
ley gas works, and who is an inspector. We then
asked him at what time we could have a seance, and
we were told that all was engaged from ten o’clock in
the morning to six o’clock at night, with the exception
of the hour from twelve to one at noon. We agreed
to take that time, as it would be convenient to the gas
officer as it was his dinner hour. Nothing more was
said on that occasion, and we retired. On the Monday
morning following I went along with Mrs. Sharphouse,
who wished me to go to the place with her. She asked
him to proceed with her case first, as she had locked
up the shop. Mrs. Sargerson said that she wanted to
know all. He had no occasion to be frightened at us,
as we were all friends, as it would go no further what¬
ever statement he made concerning her. She wished to
be informed of something concerning a previous sitting
six weeks before. He sat himself down, and made
certain spasmodic twitches of his countenance (laugh¬
ter), and went into a clairvoyant state. He then said
he saw a shop; an influence told him that—[The chair¬
man : we may take it for granted it is a spirit you are
going to tell us about (laughter) ;*) continuing—the shop
was situated in Bradford Road, and was a provision
shop. She wanted to know for certain if her husband
was keeping company with another female (loud laugh¬
ter). Prisoner said that he had been, but it was broken
off. Mrs. Sargerson asked him how long it had been
broken off, and he replied that it was two nights since
he was with her (laughter). He said the woman mes¬
merised her husband, but it might be done voluntarily
or involuntarily. Her husband knew very well that
she was up to all his ways, and he was giving it up,
as she had done everything she could and she had
succeeded, and the influence was now abandoned. She
had been talking about going to law, but he advised
her not to do so. Mrs. Sargerson then wanted to know
how her husband and the woman got together, and he
said there was a short woman who went into their shop
with slips of paper, with writing upon them, and that
was the way they arranged to meet. After that, she
paid 5s. and left. The- prisoner accompanied her to
the door, and when he got back he said “ Yond is a
queer case.” (Loud laughter.)—Cross-examined: Mrs.
Sargerson produced a piece of flannel, and he told her
that her husband had been using chloroform and opium
to her in order to get to that woman. He then sat
down and again began his motions. He spoke to my
wife, and said she had been in business, but had not
done very well. My wife never has been in business
on her own account. The prisoner told her that if she
entered into business again she would do very well,
especially if she kept a private boarding house. He
then said she was not looking very well, she had a bad
appetite, and her food did not agree with her. He
then said “ you have a sister who is a widow,” and she
said, no I have not.” I said “ there is Hannah,”
but of course there was not (laughter), but I thought I
would see what it would lead to. He said her sister
had had a deal of trouble, her husband had not done
right to her, but she was now going to do very well.
He then turned to me, and said David Weatherhead
was looking kindly at me, and said do you know him,
and I told him I did. He said I see another influence
between you and your wife, a female with grey hair;
it is your mother, and she is looking very kindly upon
you (laughter); she is a kind old soul. (Continued
laughter.) He then said have you a brother named
John, and I said no. He said I mean a brother-in-law,
that is in a spiritual sense. At twelve o’clock I went
and had my sitting along with the gas inspector.
When we went in the door was locked, and he came
| and opened it. He said I must get rid of the other
influence, or they will be getting mixed up. (Loud
| laughter.) After walking up and down the room he
afterwards sat down and got into a clairvoyant state.
He addressed himself to the gas inspector, and said he
I had had a quarrel with some person with regard to
i the transmitting of some goods. He said he had not,
and prisoner put his hand to his brow and said “ I see
a railway accident, the plates tom up, people killed,
and you are standing by.” He had been in some
accident of that kind, and he told him he had not. He
>l then told him he had had something to do with horses,
|and he said he never had. He then told the Inspeetor
i that he had a sister-in-law, named Sarah, and he told
>j him he did not know that he had. (Laughter.) He
;i then said have you made sport at the spirits and their
doctrine, and he replied that he had, to which he said you
M have laughed and skitted at them, and now it is their
>1 turn. The inspector said well its tit for tat (loud
laughter). He then told the inspector that he saw
gasometers and large fires, and men shovelling coals,
which he had to pass every day, and he had to go to
: write things down and often had to go into the dark,
n and he said, I have that.
Sarah Sharphouse, wife of the last witness, gave
>i corroborative evidence.
Mr. Neill then suggested that the remaining cases
>| should not be proceeded with, as if they were it would
>i only drag Mrs. Sargerson into the mire, and that he
n had no wish to do, but he must necessarily do so in
i cross-examination unless the other cases were aban-
c| doned. He then asked the magistrates whether they
m should fine the prisoner or no.—The Chairman : What
i is this man?—Mr. Neill: I should like him to answer
that for himself:—The prisoner: I am a member of the
Spiritualistic Society. My labours are voluntary, but
I)} my time is devoted to the philosophical and scientific
K and religion of the Spiritualist Society.—Do you live
>j upon the air or spirits? (Laughter) Prisoner: Neither—
How do you live ? I am supported by the society,
which receives contributions, by Spiritualists through¬
out England.—What becomes of this money you get ?
Prisoner : It goes to the fund. (Laughter).
The magistrates then retired, and on their return the
Chairman said they were willing to let the issue rest
with the first case provided the prisoner pleaded guilty.
After some discussion had taken place, Mr. Ireland
said he should withdraw the charge of telling fortunes,
|p as the person who had been sununoned had refused to
j>j attend.
Mr. Neill addressed the Bench on behalf of the defen¬
dant, and pointed out that in law the prisoner could not
! (| be convicted, but this the Bench overruled.
The Chairman said they had decided to commit the
| prisoner to prison. If they did not do so they would
neither be doing justice to the public nor to themselves,
as if they were to inflict a fine, it would be easily paid
by the society, and the prisoner could continue the
|)i same thing. He would therefore be committed to
| prison for three months. He might add that the
| [; magistrates were glad that Mr. and Mrs. Sharphouse
cj had come forward to give evidence in the manner they
| S | had done.—Keighley herald, April 2nd, 1880.
1 Except as setting forth the cose for the pro-
| secution the above report is so biassed as to be
I worthless. It leaves the impression (by in¬
ference) on the mind of the reader that
j>| Matthews pleaded u Guilty ” towards the close
J of the trial, in order to escape being tried on
April 9, 1880.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
171
the second count, whereas we have just as- b/
certained by telegraph from Mr. Morrell of \i\
Keighley, that he did nothing of the kind.
Some additional details of the case have <
been furnished us by Mr. Morton, as follows :— ?
In the case of the Polices. Frank Owen Matthews, j)
who was tried at the Keighley Pob'ce Court, County In
of York, on the 2nd inst. Defendant was charged with K|
“ unlawfully using certain subtle means or devices to i)j
deceive and impose on certain of Her Majesty’s in
subjects, to wit—James Sharphouse, Susannah Sarger- Kj
son, and others, contrary to the statute in that case j)|
made and provided.”
The statute referred to is Statutes United Parliament jS
5 George IV, c. 83, an act for the punishment of idle
and disorderly persons, rogues and vagabonds, in that Kj
part of Great Britain, called England :
IV. “ And be it further enacted. That every person |c
committing any of the offences hereinbefore mentioned S
after having been convicted as an idle and disorderly i)i
person: Every person pretending or professing to \\\
tell Fortunes, or using any subtle craft, means or j)i
device, by Palmistry or otherwise, to deceive and c
impose on any of Her Majesty’s subjects, &c., &c., shall Kj
be deemed a rogue and a vagabond within the D
meaning and true intent of this Act: and it shall be Kj
lawful for any Justice of the Peace to Commit such K
offender (being thereof convicted before him by the ])
confession of such offender, or by the evidence on oath
of one or more credible witnesses) to the House of Kj
Correction, there to be kept to hard labour for any n
time not exceeding Three Calendar Months.”
The Defendant pleaded ** not guilty,” whereupon two Kj
witnesses wore called by the prosecution, who testified |sj
to having a seance with the Defendant, and related Kj
what was said, which they averred was without a K
semblance of truth. What the prosecution claim to s
have established, is that the Defendant is a person Ki
who has no visible means of support, and in this case i?
was using certain means and devices, for the purpose K
of deceiving and imposing upon the inhabitants of Kj
Keighley. Had Mr. Matthews^friends, and Spiritual* c
ists from London been in Court to testify as to his Kj
character, as they should have done, and under oath K
had said to the Court they believed, and were certain kj
that Matthews was frequently controlled by spirits of Kj
the departed, it is possible that the disgraceful con- jo
sequences now attending this poor man, may have been js
averted. As the matter now stands, he is sentenced Kj
to be imprisoned for three calendar months, in the K
goal at Wakefield. Until the magistrates and jury Kl
shall know something of the laws governing spirit jo
force, or the law as it now stands be stricken from the K
Statute Books, mediums have no protection whatever, Kj
and are liable to be arrested at any moment. Nor ?i
can a lawyer be of any avail as long as they are to be Kj
classed with, and treated as rogues and vagabonds. K
If the next medium who is arrested shall exclaim, as
did Matthews, “ God save me from my friends,” it j
won’t be because Spiritualists are not forewarned.
F. T. Morton. j<|
April 6th, 1880.
Mr. J. W. Fletcher suggests public action jsj
in the matter, and that some such memorial as k
the following should be sent, largely signed, j>l
to the Home Secretary:—
c
This petition xcitnesseth as follotcs.
Whereas, on the second day of March, A.D. 1880, si
Frank Owen Matthews was, upon information and
complaint of Thomas Ireland, of Keighley, County of
York, England, charged with “ Unlawfully using
subtle means or devices to deceive and impose on
certain of Her Majesty’s subjects,” and on the 2nd day
of April, 1880, was tried at the Keighley Police Court,
in said County of York, and sentenced to be imprisoned
for three calendar months, in the goal at Wakefield,
in said County. And whereas, your petitioners
believing the said Matthews to be a man of excellent
character, and that he is most unjustly deprived of
his liberty, and of his rights as a free man, respectfully
request his release from goal, and for the following
reasons:
First.—Frank Owen Matthews is a clairvoyant, and
has the gift of second sight. That in giving seances in
the Spiritualists’ Meeting Room, in East Parade,
Keighley, and in other places, he is engaged in what
he believes to be a most holy calling, and doing the
work he believes God has appointed him to do.
Second.—That said Matthews is at times controlled by
spirits of the departed, and when under such control
delivers lectures, and gives messages to those in
Earth-Life. And whereas, the power of the spirit
to control matter, i.e. mediums, having been most con¬
clusively proved and attested by the leading scientific
men of this, and other countries; and whereas, the
Magistrates before whom said Matthews was tried are
ignorant of said fact, and believing him to be an im¬
postor, have, by reason thereof, caused him to be
imprisoned, and unjustly restrained of his liberty.
And whereas, the laws of this country were made to
protect each and every citizen in their rights to worship
God according to the dictates of their own conscience,
Therefore, your petitioners represent and declare,
that the said Matthews has not had a fair trial; that
he is unjustly deprived of his liberty, and earnestly
request his release from confinement without delay.
And your petitioners will ever pray.
Mr. Matthews was aware that on some oc¬
casions his clairvoyant visions were untrust¬
worthy, for we have been present when they
were inaccurate throughout the evening, as
well as upon some occasions when they
were precise and true. But to charge five
shillings to uninformed persons, totally unac¬
quainted with the subject, and while he was
fully aware that his clairvoyance was some¬
times untrustworthy, was a line of action quite
certain, as anybody could see in advance, to
sooner or later lead him to the county prison,
and to bring discredit on the movement. Sur¬
rounded by all the prejudice of the ignorant
against psychical phenomena, he could hardly
expect anything else but a prosecution after
charging disbelievers for admission, and then
describing to them untrustworthy visions.
Warnings to mediums have been published
in the past, of the necessity of taking reasonable
care while in pursuit of their calling to give
no opportunity for prosecutions, because if for
want of reasonable care they bring the move¬
ment as well as themselves into discredit, it
weakens their position when they desire help
from the body of people their want of reason¬
able care has been the means of injuring. No
172
THE SPIKITUALIST.
April 9, 1880
doubt Spiritualists will do all they can for Mr.
Matthews if, after all the details of the case
have reached London, the case is found to con¬
tain no aspects prohibitory of public action, but
the want of forethought just mentioned is a
weakening influence.
As to the idea that London Spiritualists
should have defended Mr. Matthews at Keighley,
he and his friends were so dilatory in sending
us information even that he had been arrested,
that the news came to hand so late as to make
it impossible to publish it in The Spiritualist
until the very day that the trial and conviction
took place at Keighley. If the readers of a
journal learn in London in the morning, that a
medium is to be prosecuted in a town several
hundreds of miles away in the afternoon, they
can hardly be blamed for doing nothing in the
matter. And before public action can be taken,
it is not sufficient that the mere information
should be possessed that a medium is being
prosecuted; all the main details of the case are
required, to learn whether the actions of the
medium were such as to be defensible from a
Spiritualist’s point of view. Had the necessary
information been sent, it would have been
possible to have called a meeting, as we did at
the outset of the Slade case, to consider what
action, if any, should be taken.
If, after due examination this case of Mr.
Matthews should be found to be one in which
Spiritualists at large can take action on his
behalf, a deputation to the Home Secretary to
call attention to the state of the law as well as
to this particular case might be the best line
of action. As to the suggested memorial
quoted in this article, the reply of the
authorities to it probably would be—u We do
not punish Mr. Matthews for his religious con¬
victions, but for telling people what was not
true, and charging five shillings for the same.”
And if one paragraph in the suggested
memorial should be taken to mean that Spirit¬
ualists believe that all utterances from the lips
of clairvoyant or trance mediums, come from
the spirits of dead persons, numbers of the
signatures of Spiritualists whose names are best
worth having would be withheld.
But the suggestion is a step in the right
direction. If, when the full details of the
defendant’s side of the case came to London
from his friends in Keighley, the matter is
seen to be one over which public action can
be taken, the attention of the Home Secretary
should be called to various matters. There is
an Act of Parliament which punishes indi¬
viduals for finding lost property by clairvoy¬
ance, but notwithstanding the uncertainty of
clairvoyance under present conditions, lost
property has in exceptional cases been re¬
covered by its aid. This law, therefore, is a
direct prohibition of a branch of scientific
research. The case of Mrs. Tranter, who was
sentenced to five years’ imprisonment for dis¬
obeying it, might again be brought under the
notice of the Home Secretary. Hid she die in
prison under the monstrous sentence, or is
she now free ?
Newcastle and other provincial Spirit¬
ualists might do some good, by collecting and
sending to us as soon as possible, the testimony
of those who have had good evidence of Mr.
Matthews’ clairvoyant powers ; the full signa¬
ture and address of each individual who has
had good tests, should be appended to his or
her statement.
 + 
STONE-THROWING- SPIRITS IN NATAL.*
In 1869, a rumour spread over the county
"Weener that the house of a certain farmer on
the banks of the Little Tugela, was the scene
of nightly devilries of a harmless but annoying
description. The family complained that when
the doors were shut and the windows secured,
stones of a large size, maizecobs, and other
ponderous matters began to be pelted about by
unseen hands, inside the boundaries of their
narrow and well-lighted sitting room. Every¬
body knows what the appearance of a South
African waggon team is. There is a long double
row of oxen carrying yokes, to which is at¬
tached a heavy chain or rope, a waggon-pole
and the weighty African waggon. The spook
at Van ’s used to vary its stone-throwing
entertainment by arranging oranges and pump¬
kins in something like the appearance of the
African oxteam, the oranges yoked two and
two with thorns, and a pumpkin, or in some
cases, a very large head of Indian corn attached
to them by a chain of straw. This was evi¬
dently a hint for the family to go. The mani¬
festations which at first were only of occasional
occurrence, became after a while a cause of
nightly dismay and consternation to the poor
Boers; and by the beginning of the winter of
1869 the extraordinary occurrences were the
theme of every tongue in the wide uplands of
Natal. Various propositions were made by
the neighbours for the suppression of the ghost,
understood to be a woman three years dead,
who was said to have got up the seance in
revenge on her husband for having married a
* Slightly abridged from ** The Transvaal of To-day” by A.
Aylward, p. 204.
Apbil 9, 1880. THE SPIRITUALIST. 173
second time, and allowed the stepmother to ill- |)| was placed round the house outside. This
use the first wife’s children. js| consisted of men quick of eye and rapid to
One evening, towards the end of May, a j<! detect the approach of even the smallest animal,
large party, consisting of some of the more P and to whom the quiver of a leaf or wave of
intelligent farmers of Weener and the neigh- || grass had an intelligible significance. The
houring district of the Klip River, accompanied Ki guard being posted, seven men entered the
by two Britons, M’Cormack (an old soldier), j?| house carefully, and fastened up all the doors
and a friend of the present writer, assembled |j>i and windows. There were two servants in
with guns and horses to exorcise the evil m the house, who were taken in charge of and
presence. The house was situated on a level Kj placed sitting between the knees of two watch-
plain, had no trees -within 40 paces of it, and R| ful men. The family were requested to sit
had no cellars. The roof was well and solidly |)| under the central table, which they did. The
thatched, was perfect in every respect, being lj| candles were lighted, and in deep silence the
almost new, and it came down fairly over the k! watch commenced. The moon was almost
wall plates, leaving no possibility of any space ki at the full, there were no clouds, and the out-
being found through which the stone-thro wing |>| side guards could see plainly every mark, every
and annoyance could be conducted from the |s| rent and nail-hole in the whitewashed walls of
outside. The whole building was divided R| the haunted cottage. Ten minutes after the
inside into but three rooms, the party walls |)| arrival of the guests, the stance commenced by
dividing which were only eight feet high, S the fall of half a dozen pomegranates upon the
pierced with openings from top to bottom. Kj table. This was succeeded by a shower of
Instead of doors, these openings from the Kj gravel, the small stones of which I had the
central into the two side rooms, were commonly j? curiosity to inspect. No pebbles of a similar
closed with curtains. For the whole house Rj nature were to be found within ten miles of
there were two doors of exit and entry, opposite |s the place. One of the guards got up to ex-
each other, opening from the central room into K amine the pomegranates. He had no sooner
the veld. In this little mansion there were j)| left his chair than it was flung with great
four windows, two in the central room and one jSj violence after him ; then lumps of ironstone,
very small one in each of the side rooms. Kj the smallest of which weighed ten pounds,
These openings, when I saw them, were fimly j?| began dropping from unexpected places, and a
secured on the inside with heavy wooden j;j mass of clay appeared to tumble through the
shutters, bolted to the walls. The inside of K| roof, breaking and scattering about the floor
the house was poorly furnished. The main Kj as if it had come from a considerable height,
room had a small table in the comer and a k| The remarkable feature of the whole affair was,
bigger one in the centre; a home-made sofa, j)j that not one missile struck any of the large
three hard wooden chairs, a waggon box S party now assembled in the small room. Their
painted green; in the corner by the little table < excitement was increased by hearing a violent
a soft chair with a footstool in front of it; and |?j banging at one of the shuttered openings, but
on the table a Brobdignagian coffee kettle, j>j which, as we afterwards learned, attracted no
with a small fireplace under it always full of jsj attention from the outside guard,
glowing charcoal. The two side rooms con- k| M’Cormack, who is still a living witness to
tained beds, comfortable, but of primitive j>j the facts of this entertainment, being, after his
construction. There were no pictures to j^j own fashion, a pious man, determined to shew
obscure the whitewashed walls. The bare jsj the horror of his faith and the strength of his
rafters and roof were open to the inside of the Rj exorcisms. He stood up with uncovered head,
house, there being no ceilings. The floor was j> and boldly addressed the ghost in Irish, order-
of hardened ant heap level and well beaten. j) ing it in the most solemn manner to retire to
When once inside the house, and the door jsj where the wicked ought to cease from troubling
and windows properly fastened, it would seem j(j and the weary are presumed — by all but;
as if the inhabitants were perfectly free from Spiritualists—to take their rest. Whether led
any molestation from the outside, and could Isj on by his subject, he went too far or not, I can-
feadily see and detect any attempt that might jsj not say : he was stopped in the midst of a
be made to play tricks upon them by persons R torrent of eloquence by what he afterwards
within. There was no fireplace or kitchen j>j described as u a lick from a three year old; ”
range, all the cooking being carried on at an js| in fact, a “ young paving stone” brought him
outside kitchen. On the arrival of the party K to his senses and his seat at the same time,
of investigators and exorcists, an armed watch j?| This violent counter-attack was too much for
174 THE SPIRI
tlie yisitors. Already in a state of high alarm, j|
they hastily released their prisoners, flung open I ^
the doors, and dashed out into the moonlight, R
followed by showers of stones, mealy cobs, |;
potatoes, pomegranates, oranges, and all the |>
handy weapons of South African Spiritual war- K
fare that the deceased had accumulated— K
where ? In the still moonlight they saw their |j
watchful comrades keeping their post in un- |j
disturbed silence. Waiting for no explanation, ]>
the signal for flight was given—every man |s
caught his horse and galloped home as quickly | J
as possible.
The a spook ” of the Little Tugela became ji
a far-famed and very troublesome ghost. The ! J
manifestations were continued for two months, j j
during which the persecuted head of the house ; j
was struck by a stone that nearly blinded him. !)
They then ceased for three years, being resumed I i
in March, 1872, but whether they continue K
to the present day this deponent knoweth 1?
not, as he has not since been to the vicinity of |>
the haunted mansion. is
A PRIVATE SEANCE.
A CASE FOE, INVESTIGATION.
Last Friday night, at a seance at the resi- is
dence of Mrs. W. E. Corner, 3, St. Thomas’s K
Square, Hackney, London, at which nine or R
ten guests were present, a young gentleman,” i)
a private and non-professional trance medium, ! j
went under control, and was made to utter is
some statements the accuracy of which it would i J
be as well for some of our Australian readers |>
to investigate. The controlling spirit, who is
spoke in deeply troubled tones, said that his K
name was John Jones Markery, that he “ died ” | ?
at Windsor, Ballarat, about (he supposed) a ;>
week previously ; that “ Anne ” was very kind is
to him while ill, and wrapped him up in a |<
blanket while he was hot with fever; she also R
brought a preacher to him, but it was no good. \\
Only about a week ago he had knocked her js
down. He wanted to go back, but could not. K
He was sorry that u Anne ” would not be able R
to get his money out of the Post Office: the !<
number of his bank-book in Melbourne was is
1,693. George Symes, a butcher at Ballarat R
had some money of his, and would pay it to |?
anybody entitled to it; he wished “Anne” ]j
knew about it, so as to be able to make an Is
application.. He had been.a stonecutter, and \(
was born in Hackney. He did not know what R
or who brought him to the medium, and he i>
felt as if awaking from a troubled sleep.
The medium himself does not know whether K
to believe in these controls, or whether he i(
T U A L I S T. April 9, 1880.
makes unfounded utterances while in a mes¬
meric state, so the question whether the forego¬
ing information be true or false will be of
psychological interest. With other mediums
such messages have sometimes proved to be
accurate, and sometimes altogether untrue.
EXPERIMENTS IN MESMERISM.
On Thursday, last week, Mr. S. B. Bedman,
mesmerist, of Brixton Hill, London, perfor¬
med a few experiments with two of his sen¬
sitives, in Mr. Charles Blackburn’s room,
adjoining The Spiritualist office, in Museum
Street. He made his sensitives forget their
names and commit various acts, showing that
he had complete control over them. The ex¬
periments were of the usual character. Several
times when he gave them coins or other small
objects, they dropped them as if they were red
hot, and complained of being “ burnt.” Mr.
Bedman said that this effect was produced
without intention on his part, and that it was
a common thing for his sensitives to complain
of a burning influence coming from him.
He stiffened one of his sensitives by mes¬
meric passes, so that when the head of the
latter rested on one chair and his heels on the
other, with his body stretched out horizontally
in the air, Mr. Bedman could kneel with his
whole weight on the centre of the body of the
sleeper, who retained his rigidly horizontal
position. He said that in the waking state
this could be done to some extent, but not
for nearly so long a time as when the sensitive
was in a mesmeric sleep.
Last Tuesday night, Mr. Bedman gave a
public lecture on mesmerism at the Work¬
man’s Hall, 65, Drury Lane, London. There
was a large attendance, He bandaged the
eyes of one of his sensitives, who then follow¬
ed him quickly at about one yard distance from
him, up and down the room, off and on the
platform, and up and down a flight of stairs.
There was no hesitation of motion of the sen¬
sitive or bending of the head, yet he mounted
steps and stairs as if he had the free use of his
eyes. The lecturer said that he could do this
with but few sensitives, complete brain-sym¬
pathy between the operator and the subject
being necessary.
Mr. Bedman then placed one of his sensi¬
tives in a chair with Ins back to the observers,
and sent him to sleep, after which he made
passes first over the head of the slumberer, and
then over the head of one of the spectators.
He stated that that established a connection
between the two heads, and that the somnam-
175
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 9, 1880.,
bulic sleeper would be able to see the u in¬
fluence on the head of the person among the
spectators. He then made the sleeper stand
up, and told him to fetch “a rose” from the
head of one of the observers. The sensitive,
with a glassy stare, looked about for nearly
three minutes; after this long pause he made
a sudden dash at the other person whose head
had been manipulated. This was repeated
several times. But on one occasion, while Mr.
Redman’s back was turned, the person in the
audience who had been manipulated on the
head, changed seats with another spectator;
after three minutes delay the sensitive made a
rush at the wrong man but who was in the right
seat. Mr. Redman, somewhat disconcerted,
stated that he had come there in honour and
good faith to play no tricks with the observers,
whereas they were playing tricks upon him.
"We think that the philosophy of the whole
matter was that the sensitive never saw any
influence on anybody’s head, but that these
were cases of mind-reading or brain-sympathy;
that the three minutes of gazing were expended
in establishing identity of mental impressions,
and that when Mr. Redman believed the
sensitive to have fixed upon the right man,
the somnambulist had the same conviction and
acted accordingly.
He made two sensitives believe that they
were rival voters making platform speeches,
thereby creating an unlimited amount of
amusement.
One of the boys operated upon during the
evening, was known to Mr. Henry Hambleton,
the manager of the institution in which the
lecture was given; he was also known to other
persons present. Mr. Redman waited fifteen
minutes for volunteer subjects from among the
numerous spectators; two elderly and positive-
minded men underwent a trial, but he could
do nothing with them; two boys also mounted
the platform, but they were frantically
beckoned ofl again by their mother.
THE BRAIN AND ORGANS OF SENSE.
BY C. C. MASSEY
Mr. Atkinson’s letter is interesting; but I
must question whether it has any bearing on
the case described by me, I was not ignorant
of the fact that local insensibility or relief can
be induced by mesmerism, without loss of con¬
sciousness. But anaesthetics act directly on
the brain, occasioning complete loss of (appa¬
rent) consciousness. Doubtless a particular
nerve may be influenced without acting on the
brain generally. But that is not the case with
if anaesthetics. Local insensibility, when these
i I are used, is only the result of a general loss of
>| consciousness; and the problem for which I
S! sought a solution was how, when the brain had
Ki been paralysed by ether, any impression what-
|l ever could have been conveyed to the mind
i| from without. My friend must have somehow
Sj or other known what was said, for on awaking
< | he answered relevantly. It seemed, and still
?j seems to me impossible that his brain should
)| have been the medium of communication. I
s! suggested one more subtle, yet not so subtle
}\ as to elude the vibrations by which sound is
?| produced in a sentient being. It is a mere
>1 conjecture, and may well be a worthless one;
si but unless Mr. Atkinson tells me that ether
(I or chloroform can be applied, like mesmerism,
?j to produce partial insensibility only, I cannot
;j think that his experience, and the facts he
s] mentions, interesting and important as they
a are, have any application to the case.
); April 5th.
ETERNAL PUNISHMENT.
When so talented and thoughtful a writer
?| as the late lamented J. W. Jackson, treating
>| on u Eternal Punishment,” a European Devil
! Worship,” and u The Existence of Evil,”
a reminded us that u The Omnipotent is every-
?! where, and wherever the Omnipotent is He
>| Reigns, even as Swedenborg would say, in the
sj hells”—when he told us that “Under an
g infinitely wise and powerful paternal govern-
?! ment, all punishment is remedial and all
> suffering simply the discipline of an imperfect
)! and so erring creature for its ultimate good,”
j| his logic and perspicuity filled us with ad-
>j miration. But when Mr. Jackson remarked
> in the context that “ Eternal Punishment,”
)j as well as the other specialities of the Augus-
j! tinian and Calvinistic schools, was “founded
> not on Christ’s benign revelation, but on
>| Paul’s superficial metaphysics,” I stood aghast
J! at seeing this observation applied to the
[I dogma of “ Eternal Punishment,” and asked
>j myself how was it that so far-seeing a man as
11 Mr, Jackson could possibly have followed the
'I stale and reprehensible system of catching a
’! scapegoat anyhow, to bear the burden of an
• unpropitious apothegm, rather than going
\ to the root of the matter at once.
Who, I ask, would have listened to St.
} Augustine or Calvin, Luther, Torquemada,
! or Arbuez, with the awe and dread with which
| the Christian world has listened, if they had
| had no other authority than even that of St.
! Paul ? If, for instance, St. Paul had coupled
176
the dogma of Eternal Punishment of the
individual with, “ To the rest speak I, not
the Lord,” who, I say, would under such cir¬
cumstance, have declared him infallible on
this point ? Who, indeed, would have heeded
him on so fearful a subject, so stupendous an
assumption ? and, let me ask, can anyone
point out any such assumption in the writings
of St. Paul at all ?
The entire foundation and the only founda¬
tion for the authorship of this dreadful alleged
penalty to the individual, is to be found in
the following words attributed to Jesus:
i( These shall go away into everlasting punish¬
ment : but the righteous into life eternal.” I
say attributed, because we have no proof of
these exact words, on which so much has hung,
(I say has hung advisedly) ever having been
said. One or two words more or less might
make an entire difference in the meaning, and
we have the stronger reason to believe that
these were not the precise words used, because
Jesus has himself said that the Father keeps
the times and seasons in his own hands. And
again, speaking of a future event, he alleges
that neither the angels nor the Son knew
either the day or the hour when it would come
to pass; and one of these sayings occurred
after his death, and the other before it, shew¬
ing that death made no change as regards
knowledge in that respect. Certainly these
words concerning (t Eternal Punishment ” were
not written by Jesus himself. There may be an
interpolation of later date ; or there may have
been an omission of a word. “ Place of Eternal
Punishment,” would have made all the differ¬
ence, supposing there were such a place. This
one thing is certain, they are isolated words;
nothing else from Jesus comes to verify or
accord with them. Destruction, perishment,
are predicated of our future by Jesus over and
over again; outer darkness; paying the last
mite ; paying the whole debt—are common
sayings of Jesus indeed; the few and many
stripes; the many of course having an end |
as well as the few, is a moral reminder that |
few Spiritualists will be likely to gainsay, but i
of the alleged decrease of u Everlasting Punish- :
ment” to the individual, but one instance is I
given, the one already quoted.
It would be useless to say that such an ex- |
pression as that of individuals going into ever- |
lasting fire means the same thing as going j
into everlasting punishment: it does not. The I
expression going into everlasting fire is but |
emphatic language for what almost every i
Spiritualist believes; not certainly that mate- |
Abril 9, 1880,
|| rial fire can hurt a spirit, if God, as is alleged,
I sometimes makes his spirits a flame of fire,
| but most, if not all Spiritualists, believe that
i there is a Nemesis for evil that none can
| escape, but a remedial Nemesis, however, as
| Mr. Jackson affirms, a Nemesis that “saves,
j yet so as by fire,” as St. Paul the essential
. medium of Jesus, after his death, alleges.
The Vestal Virgins, we know, kept up a
| perpetual fire, but none would be so rash as
I to assert that the same unhappy women always
| fed the flame. No, they took their turn.
| Even by man’s law justice is satisfied and sin
no longer imputed after a certain period,
whether accruing through death or otherwise.
Prisons last much longer than the occupants,
so it is of fire.
Some persons are apt to think that Spirit¬
ualists are very extraordinary people for not
liking to retain “Eternal Punishment” in their
repertory at all hazards. We thank them, and
say in return, that though we may be poor in
grace, yet we can do without it, and we are
inclined to think that some would gladly
saddle us with a dogma which not only en¬
riches them, but which would make us poor
indeed. We believe, with the talented author
of Other World Order, and of an admirable life
of Swedenborg, that, if sin lasts for ever, there
will be an everlasting punishment of sin, for
sin bears its own punishment; but, like him,
we do not believe in everlasting sinners, and
we think also, as St. Paul once expressed it,
ni that every man shall bear his own burden.
But as to everlasting punishment of the indi-
! vidual, we are glad to hail its coming funeral,
i)| if only on account of the misery and madness
jsl it has brought upon the sensitive and the
k| weak, as well as because of the blasphemy and
m unbelief, the absurdities, the inconsistencies,
!;! and above all the callousness of heart it has
pj brought upon the strong. What other cause,
Ki with an instinct of after life so generally im-
!?1 planted in the bosom of mankind, could have
|)j drawn so many to si eel themselves to deny
I any future life at all ? What other cause could
<| have called forth the hateful but ridiculous
?! malediction of Luther against Zuingluis, who,
>! simply because the latter differed in a single
s I point from the Wittenberg idea of the Scriptures,
cj pronounced him (Zuingluis), as “ damned from
)| all eternity,” and who, from the same reason,
)j used to ejaculate “ Whenever I pray, I pray
si for a curse upon Erasmus ! ” Now Zuingluis
(j and Erasmus were two of the most notable and
> honoured Christians of their day. What
)\ caused the fury of Torquemada and Pietro
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 9, 1880.
177
THE SPIRITUALIST.
d’Arbuez, and the rest of the cruel inquisitors, j>
but the firm belief in (t Eternal Punishment,” !
and chiefly the desire to save their own K
skins? He might not hare been so very bad |?
a boy who threw stones at the frogs. But the I)
frogs could hardly think well of him. True, K
the frogs had bold eyes; and it was presump- K
tuous to rise by their own intention even by a R
hop; and, above all, provoking to swim at 1/
their own will in pleasant streams, where no jj
boy could follow them, and where there was js
no asking, “ by your leave.”
The Churches of Christendom have been >
passing, of late, through a solemn .season, the K
key notes of which were not only the contempla- K
tion of motives to forsake sin, but to manifest k
sympathy with suffering, mental and bodily. !>
Then came the release from bodily suffering j>
by death. All this highly typical and em- K
blematical of the trials of humanity. A re- <
lease by death, I say, but no release from k
labour. Previous to the day of rejoicing over j>
the spirit of the dead arising and appearing to js
many, there was a day of seeming repose J so, k
many who had attended the services all through j)
the first six days of the week, stayed at home j)
on the seventh, making it a day of quiet, and |<
regarding it as a day of little importance in k
the Christian year. But blind were they, j)
That seventh day of apparent repose is to the \)
crowds personally, who had thronged the s
Churches for those other six days, the bright- K
est day of the whole Christian year, especially k
to hose who are conscious of sin, for on that j>
day it was that Jesus, though so lately dead, js
had not rested, but had hasted to preach to k
sinful spirits, spirits who were said to have k
been so evil when in the flesh that the i>
world was flooded on their account. Surely js
no sinners can be worse than these, and j<j
yet Jesus preached to their spirits after death, k
not of course, to mock them, but to put them j)
at least into the way of progress !
What haste—supposing the words of eternal K
damnation to have been really, though U
certainly but once only expressed during the j)
trials and contradictions of earth-life—what js
haste, I say, was there in this act of preaching K
to sinful spirits, with not an hour’s delay in j?
order to cancel and annul those words of k
haste. Let it not be said that His word can- Is
not be cancelled. For the words were spoken, Is
as all the churches affirm by the very same j(
great spirit, who, in a pre-existent state, had j>
declared not only that he could, but that he |j
would annul his own decree, and not only a is
decree but an everlasting decree : “ I said, \\
indeed, that thy house and the house of thy
father should walk before me for over,” but
now the Lord saith, “Be it far from me.”
This is enough to give me the highest Christian
authority for the reversal of an alleged ever¬
lasting decree, and on scriptural grounds.
The preaching of Jesus immediately after
his death to the “ spirits in prison ” is remark¬
able in many ways. They are said to have
been dead two thousand years, and yet they still
existed, so they had not been destroyed, they
had not perished, were not annihilated, though
they certainly may be said to have suffered many
stripes. WTiether they had been in outer
darkness we cannot tell, and whether they had
paid the uttermost farthing is doubtful; but
of this we are certain, the beneficent preaching
to which they were now happily subjected
could not but have put them in the way of
progress, for that was its object.
Let me conclude, as I began, by a few
words of logic from that clear-headed man,
the late Mr. J. W. Jackson, on “Devil Wor¬
ship,” and “ Eternal Punishment.” He says
in Human Nature, of October 1809, “ Let any
psychologist realise to himself the condition
of mind implied in the acceptation of such
dogmata ; the inadequate faith in truth and
rectitude, the ignorant belief in the perma¬
nent power of fraud and violence, the limited
idea of good, the exaggerated conception of
evil, the utter and hopeless confusion of
thought as to the existence and operation of
law in the spiritual sphere, and he will at once
see that the religious teaching which involves
such absurdities and contradictions must tend
as far as its happily declining influence is
really affected, to rear up a priesthood who
are tyrants, and a laity who are slaves.”
Scrutator.
A YOIOE FROM LAODIOEA.
(Concluded).
BY FRANK PODMORE, B.A. (OXON.), F.O.8.
They make but a slight impression on hi
mental vision, which is constantly directed
on other objects: just as things which are
seen only at the side of the retina are without
colour and of indistinct form. He does not
refuse to see them; he often has not the
power to do so, or at best can only clearly
realise them by distinct and repeated efforts
of will.
Men of science, on the other hand, ret or
that Spiritualists generally belong to the
second class. They believe in the phenomena
and ascribe them to spirit agency, because
178
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 9, 1880.
they are altogether on one side of the general
current of thought in our age. Their thought-
forms, or scientific instincts, are so little
developed, that they will receive anything, not
perceiving its incongruity with other depart¬
ments of knowledge. And it must be con¬
fessed that we do meet with Spiritualists of
this type, who believe all things, only because
they are incapable of appreciating either the
magnitude or the difficulties of that which
they believe. Now, I suppose we are all agreed
that over-credulity is a very bad thing indeed.
Like the hustings orator in the Biglow
papers,
“We allow that a man should go tolerable strong
Against wrong in the abstract, for that kind of wrong
Is always unpopular, and never gets pitied,
Because it’s a crime no one never committed.”
But our difficulty is not an abstract, but a
practical one. Who shall show us the golden
mean between scepticism and credulity ? Are
my audience to-night the philosophers, and I,
who doubt, the fool: or am I the philosopher ?
This is the question we would have answered ;
is this inspiration of the scientific sense a true
inspiration or not, when it leads men to
decide against the truth of Spiritualism ?
Now we have seen that similar claims of
infallibility have been set up for other senses;
and we have seen these other senses proved
untrustworthy. For the moral sense of the
savage bids him kill and eat his grandmother,
ajcustom which would here meet with universal
condemnation. And the geometrical sense has
never told us anything about objects of four
dimensions, and would altogether repudiate
two straight lines which should enclose a
space, a triangle whose interior angles were not
equal to two right angles, or parallel straight
lines which met when they were out of sight. So,
obviously, the scientific sense may occasionally
err. And when it does err, it can be convicted
of error, and its disciples reclaimed only by
the same means which have convinced those
who have been misled by these other intui¬
tions of the error of their ways,—by reason,
to wit, and the evidence of the bodily senses.
For as the belief of the scientific man in
certain laws governing the physical universe,
has been built up on the direct evidence of
the senses through many generations ; so his
belief in other newer laws modifying and en¬
larging the old ones, can only be organised by
the constant repetition of evidence of a similar
character. It is not the will so much as the
power to believe which is lacking. But the
power can be cultivated, if the will is there.
<
K
K
if!
!>!
Just as the sailor learns, by constant practice,
to discern objects on the horizon, which to the
landsman are invisible ; or the chemist to
distinguish between odours, which to the un¬
initiate are all equally pungent; so by diligent
practice, I apprehend, the faculty for believing
in these phenomena may be developed when
the rudiments are present. Constant fami¬
liarity with the thing and the idea are all the
necessary conditions if the phenomena be
genuine. It is unreasonable to expect that
the results from such a process should be
otherwise than gradual You are watching
not an action, but a growth. Time and time
only will shew on which side lies the truth.
If on the side of the Spiritualists, the world
can no more ultimately believe these things
to be false, than any but a monk could believe
that the Sun is a fiat disc six feet across, and
the stars lesser lights shining to brighten the
darkness of earth.
It seems probable that even professed Spirit¬
ualists feel the need of constantly familiarising
themselves with their phenomena. I cannot
otherwise account for the fact that so many
amongst them are in the constant habit of
attending stances, at which nothing but the
same elementary manifestations are to be wit¬
nessed. To spend four hours a week in
listening to jokes by “ Peter,” and being
knocked on the head by a vagrant musical
box, seems an occupation hardly worthy of the
apostle of a new faith. But the else anomalous
circumstance, that many sensible people are
willing so to waste their time, finds a ready
explanation in the supposition that Spirit¬
ualists themselves often feel the influence of
hereditary thought-forms too strong for their
new won belief ; that this latter, Antoeus-iike,
dies when raised from the earth. For myself,
I am pleased with the explanation, for it
would tend to shew that we are not so very
far removed from you, when all is said. If
you have your intervals of doubt, we have
ours of faith, comparable in duration to the
revolving lantern of the Start Lighthouse,
which shows a brief flash of light for six
seconds, and is dark for the other fifty-four.
But I trust that I shall offend none by such
a supposition. If your faith is not perfect,
the fault is not your own. For once break the
maxim “ De mortuis nil nisi bonum,” and
on the dead lay the blame of our chequered
doubt, and of your imperfect faith:—the back of
eighteen centuries is strong enough to bear
it all.
Lastly, it is certain that this reluctance on
A*ril 9, 1880. THE 8 P I
the part of the world to accept new truth is
not altogether evil; is perhaps altogether good.
The influence that makes it so hard for a new
truth to gain a foothold now, is the surest
guarantee that that foothold once gained, it
shall never be displaced. It is this tremendous
vis inertia) of custom that is the guardian of
all in faith and morality that we most cherish.
The twin forces of change and conservation
are ever in equilibrium, and ever advancing
our social state. If, without the first, we
should be stereotyped like the Eastern civiliza¬
tions, without the other we should sink still
lower, to the level of the savage, unable to
guard to-morrow, the good which ho has won
to-day. If Spiritualism with all its present
extravagance, grotesqueness, absurdity, could
at once gain the adhesion of the world, do you
think that that world would bo the better
for it? WilUts most fanatical supporter answer
in the affirmative ? At the best we should
gain a more or less distinct perception of a
universe that seems but an enlarged edition
of this, with the folly and the purposelessness
somewhat more accentuated. But in all
probability, we should not attain even that
certainty of a future life, but in its stead an un¬
limited license to shape our own future, and
that of our fellows, as we please. We might
still agree with the ordinary belief that all
alike are to live on, or we might hold, that
some only are to be preserved, and the rest to
share the fate suggested in the “ Phtedo,”
having worn out one or two bodies to be cast
aside as failures, and revert to nothingness.
Instead of priests, we should have mediums:
for sermons, trance addresses. And in place
of one faith and one morality, we should be
free to choose between a dozen systems, of
Theosophy, Christian Spiritualism, Reincar-
nationalism, Comprehensionalism, Harmonial
Philosophy, and the like. And it is to be
feared lest in the endless warfare of creeds
and teachers, many would grow to doubt
whether there be any morality at all. And
what have you to offer that would replace all
that we should lose ? No,
“ Leave thou thy sister when she prays,
Her early Heaven, her happy views,
Nor thou with shadow’d hint confuse
A life that leads melodious days.
“ Her faith thro’ form is pure as thine,
Her hands are quicker unto good;
Oh, sacred be the flesh and blood,
To which she links a truth divine.”
There was a law in some old Greek State, that
the citizen who moved the repeal of an old
measure, or the adoption of a new one, should
RITUALIST. 179
I move it with a rope round his neck. It was
a salutary law, and doubtless, whilst it
quenched much short-livedrevolutionary ardour,
and cooled the hot blood of youth, and the
intemperate zeal of the fanatic, it would be in
the path of the true reformer, the man of strong
purpose and far forethought, but as a feather
to be blown aside. And that law in spirit
! has never been repealed. Before she can gain
a hearing, Spiritualism must prove herself
I worthy to be heard, else the rope is round her
| neck, and her shrift will be a short one. But
I if she be very sure of the message that she
| bears, let her take heart. For opposition
can only define, ridicule can only strengthen,
| and scepticism purify what is true ; whilst
I they annihilate falsehood. It is good that
i each new doctrine should have its spurs to
; win. The young knight’s hand will be the
: stronger for the blows that he gives; his
| armour the brighter for the blows that he
| receives. “ Merses profundo pulchrior evenit.”
i Truth will rise the fairer from the waters that
I?I overwhelm her.
Mr. A. Morrell, of Keighley telegraphs to us that
i)\ if Mr. Matthews had pleaded u guilty ” to the charge
against him, he would have been fined instead of
K| imprisoned.
At a recent seance at the residence of Captain John
v James, 129, Qower Street, London, the spirits again
\S\ cut out with scissors in pitchy darkness, the profile of
a head, which had been drawn on paper for the
I < purpose.
Last Sunday evening, Mrs. Fletcher delivered an
| excellent address at the Stein way Hall, on the occasion
I of the thirty-second anniversary of the advent of Modern
II \ Spiritualism; we will publish an abstract thereof next
week. Mr. Stainton Moses also addressed the meeting.
An Extraordinary Coincidence.—The most extra-
Ii ordinary instance of the romantic voyagings of an ocean
waif which ever occurred, or is likely to occur, is re-
I la tod by a brother of Felicia Hemans, who was an
: officer on board the ill-fated transport, Birkenhead.
| At the moment the foundering of the ship was foreseen,
i when this gentleman considered his fate inevitable, he
I went below, wrote a message to his friends, placed it in
a bottle, which he corked and sealed, and committed to
I the waves. He was one of the rescued. A few years
afterwards, while he was stationed on one of the West
India islands, he happened to be walking on the beach
when a bottle was thrown ashore at his feet. He took
it up and examined it, and, to his amazement, dis¬
covered that it was the identical bottle he had cast over
the bulwarks of the sinking ship off the coast of
South Africa. If a novelist were to invent an incident
like this, he would be scouted for drawing too largely
on human credulity.—Standard.
I. H. 0., Rochester : You hare not enclosed your name and
address.
Can any reader of these pages oblige us with the present
address oi Madame Card, the Mesmerist P We also wish lor the
present address of " Louie” late of the Royal Aquarium.
180
THE 8PIEI TUALIST.
April 9, 1880.
MESMEBISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
b9 the tofo Wm.'Q-bboobt, M.D., F.ll.S.E., Professor qf Chemistry at Edinburgh
University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
the cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IPirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon¬
taneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Subject in
Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture—
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—Sleep caused by Silent Will; and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Oommunity of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV i—Direct Clairvoyance or Luoid Vision, without the Eyes —
Vision of Near Object: through Opaque Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V :—Lucid Prevision—^Duration of Sleep, 4c., Predicted—Pre¬
diction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—^Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of
Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
Perseverance—The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER. VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnet’s
Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII s—Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible ot Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—^Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX t—Action of Magnets, Crystals, &c., on the Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylio
or Mesmerio Light—Aurora BoreMis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—Physiological, Therapeutical, Ac.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympathy—^Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylio Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &e.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Future.
CHAPTER XT s—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Due Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII s—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or Waking State-
Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—
Cases—Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Oases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Oases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.
CHAPTER XIII s—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—Eight out of
Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—
Sleep Produced without the knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep-
Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir 3. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Oases—^Travelling Clairvoyance—
Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—
Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV {—Trance—Extasis—Oases—Spontaneous Mesmeric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI {—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
SfirUuaUtt Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Museum-etreet, London,
(
)
>
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrue by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
phenomena iu all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrnp-
tion for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient
to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, “ If I .speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop ; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena.' After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers should not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of the messages than they are forced to do by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two because
no medium chances to be present, try again with other sitters.
A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused. Mediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week: angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervous
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
Apbil 9, 1880,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
Oloth. small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-AVoRLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers. No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing ; and
pncisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allbn, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
OALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
X. in Spiritualism, by Christian Beimers. One
Shilling.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Bed Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexandeb, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at stances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday He view.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
DESEARCHES IN THE PHENO-
JQ, MENA OF SPIKITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5a The Spirit¬
ualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-sh, W.O.
MBEDIUM8HIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id.; Post free
for l&d; or six copies post free for 6d.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENQEB AND EPHEMEBIS for 1880. Con¬
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
“Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods,
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, andjudge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London; 8. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.O,
British national associa¬
tion OF SPIRITUALISTS. 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 3 p.m. to 9.30, daily. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all mcluded, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, “ 8. 0.,” care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Bue
de la Pepiniere, Paris. 
rPHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
propnetors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor j aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary departinent,
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial department; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &o., &o. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s. per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.O,
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Postfree.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Richmond,
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
Aksakof,
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Beep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Besurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XTV.—To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald:
XXIII.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By theBev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies (Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. - By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisctte Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.8.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33.
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Aeadtmie-
of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin am
Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on “ Mesmerism
and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society fo-
the Promotion of Science, Arts and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London: w.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Past I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “Birdie’s Spirit Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “I still Live”—XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII.
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, Loudon, W.C.
T>EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
JAf psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every mouth. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Sodete Anonyms, 5, Rue Neuve des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s.- 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I:—The Existing Breach between
Modem Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modem Thought verses Modem Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V :—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modem Spiritualism.
Will he sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
F.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. 'trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
9 Containing instmetions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES
AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or.500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles
are not numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them; the
facts, therefore, should he multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to ‘drop about” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated to
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, con¬
sequently irreligious age.
the spiritualist.
April 9, 1880.
Accidental Indigestion
' BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING,
USE
ENO S FRUITSALT
Every Travelling Trunk and Household in the World
ought to contain a bottle of
ENO’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health¬
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression,'Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—From the
Rev. Da. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world,”
STIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
O AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
&c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
NATURAL APERIENT.—
A
END’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities 5 thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
TMAUGED, WEARY AND WORN
JL OUT! 11 Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
TING’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
JU de la Paix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. He is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
in the house.”—M. Beral.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.— ^ After suf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try ENO’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
“ SUCCESS IN LIFE.”—A new in-
kJ vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION’.—Examine each.bottle and tee the capsule is
marked ‘‘ENO’S FBUIT SALT." Without,you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by all
Chemists. Price 2t. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcham, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillin,
THE
Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and
Prose 'Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The', Morning
Post, Graphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirty
other standard journals.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Autnor.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Photographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Der¬
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of
the Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast falls the Eventide.”
12. Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion—14. The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. ‘‘Poor
Old Joe! ”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. “ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.— The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29. The July Bug.—30, The Con¬
verted Carman.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
OW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
OW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
H(
Hl
ESTABLISHED 1851.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says;—‘‘Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“ All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein j
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers; but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
BIRKBECK BANK.—Current
Accounts opened according to the usual practice
of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the mini¬
mum monthly balances. No Commission charged for
keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
and a half per cent, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge,_ the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued for all
parts of Europe and elsewhere.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
March, 1880.J [Price Sixpence.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
A Monthly Magazine.
CONTENTS.
The present position and future needs of Spiritualism
in England; M.A. (Oxon)—Kiddle’s Spiritual Com¬
munications—Exposures of Spiritualism; Dr. Nicholls
—Two Views of Spiritualism; M.A. (Oxon)—A Needed
Lesson; Georgina Houghton—Extracts from a Spirit¬
ualist’s diary ; A. M. H. Watts—The last Words of
James Nay ler, the Quaker Martyr, 1660—Notes and
Gleanings—Lessons in a School of Life—Victorien
Sardon, the French Dramatist—The Message of Spirit,
nalism to the Criminal—Higher Aspects of Spiritual¬
ism—Poetry—A Psalm of the March Winds; J. T.
Markley.
LONDON: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Mari a-lane.
GLASGOW: Hay Nisbet & Co., 52, Ropework-lane
The Spiritualist Newspaper
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Branch Office, 33,
Price fid.; post free 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
rpHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
JL SPIRITUALISM UPON THE SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr,
G. F. Green.
These Essays won the Fibst and Second Gold
Medals of the British National Association oi
Sf I RITUALISTS.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33.
Museum-street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.8.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas,
and the result of his examination has been to identify
bis opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to he given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We
will only say that Ms descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test wMch his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (wMch is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
MIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia. Penns.
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-atreet.- J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, in
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free.
CONTENTS
The Prosecution of a Medium  169
Mr. F. O. Matthews charged with Subtle Crafs
and Devices    169
Stone-Throwing Spirits in Natal   172
A Private Seance: a case for Investigation   174
Experiments in Mesmerism    174
The Brain and Organs of Sense. By C. C. Massey 175
Eternal Punishment      175
A Voice from Laodicea (concluded)  177
ParagraphAn Extraordinary Coincidence  179
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.O., and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
