A JOURNAL OF RELIGIOUS PHILOSOPHY AND AL-l- BRANGftES OF PSYCMICAt, SCIENCE.
No. 498. (Vol. 21. No. 3). MAY, 1882. SSce'
Pi’ice 7s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Clpth. Red Edges.
A PHILOSOPHY OF IMMORTALITY.
By , THE nON. RODEN NOEL
Author of* “ A Little Child’s Monument,” etc. ;; ) ^ ^ 1
Tsyche Office, 38, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Crown Svo. Clpth. Gilt. Handsomely Printed in Red and Black Inks.. Price os. 6d., Post Free.
NOW READY,:
A GLANCE AT THE PAISTON PLAY.
By CAPTAIN E. E. BUETON.
The Frontispiece represents the Crucifixion scene of the Passion Play at Oberammorgau. “ ;
THIS WOEH CONTAINS SEVEEAL PAGES ON THE EELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF SPIETTUALISM. ^ .
' Psyche Office, 38, Museum Street, London* W.C.
: ^ Y ; Demy BYo. Cloth. Red Edges. Price 12s. 6d. Post Free.
A ILLUSTRATED PY VARIOUS FULL PAGE AND DOUBLE PAGE ENGRAVINGS.
TRAN 8 0 E N4 E N T A L PHYSIOS,
AN ACCOUNT OF EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS FROM THE SCIENTIFIC TREATISES OF
JOHANN GAEL FEIEDEICH ZOLLNEE,
Professor of Physical Astronomy at the University of Leipsic ; Member of the Royal Saxon Soaiety of Sciences ; Foreign Member of the Royal
Astronomical Society of London: of the Imperial Academy of Natural Philosophers at Moscow; and Honorary Member of the-Physical
Association at Frankfort-on-tbe-Main. ■. . - ■" . - '" . . ■ : , ■ ■■ ' . ' ''' ’
; TEANSbATED; FEOtl THE GEEMAN, WITH A PREFACE AND APPENDICES, BY , '
CHAELE8 CAELETON MASSEY, (of Lincoln’s inn, Barrister-at-Latv.) gl
Psyche Office, 3S, Museum Street, London, W.C.'
A NEW PUBLIC LENDING LIBEAEY.
“THE SPIRITUALIST LIBRARY,”
38, MUSEUM STREET, LONDON, W.C.
Catalogues may ho had on application. Subscription Fifteen Shillings a year, exclusive of the cost of postage of hooks.
Full particulars as to terms will be found in the catalogue. < p : ^ i i.
• ' Just Published^ Price 2s. 6d. Crown Svo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES,
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism. [/: . . :;v ' \ p
“ Captain James .is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer V . he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here ; J Y ;. is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request i -; V i mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author , < mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it,is desirable v , s\v' W cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
that matters on which the public require information should be '■i < i final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per-
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the ( sistently employ it for the berefit of the sick and suffering',
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat ? © Even if Captain James fails Jto make converts by his little volume,
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro- V he may at any rate be credited with having written an interesting
gross of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and ' > work in a thoroughly pleasant way,”-—The Publisher's Circular.
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,Land J
Psyche Office, 88, Museum-street, London, W.C.-
■PS^aZHIIH] .
THE PROPOSED CHEAP EDITION, OF
Zollner’s “Transcendental -Physics.’’
A considerable number of volumes of the proposed
cheap edition of the above work has been ordered, btit
not enough, up to March 1st, to warrant placing the ;
.book again in the. press.
Those who facilitate the bringing out of the book by '
ordering copies before it' goes to press, will bo supplied
with tlie> sai4. copies ^at 2s, 6d.. eaQh, whereas, after
publication its'price wiTi be 3s. Cd.
Orders tor > the book should be sent ,to W. TI.
HakrisoNj, ,b8,; Miiseutn $1reetj London.
WORKS BY THE HON. RODEN NOEL.
THE RED FLAO,
%V '. and' of h er roe its.
' Small Svo..'6s.
By Tnk HON. KODIfN NOEL. |
“ There are poetry and power of a high' order in thp volume
before,us. ,The ‘Red Flag’ is a terribl.e^atid thunderous poem.
I There,are,fine sympathies with, the sorrows of Londpn ’ life and
■wonderful knowledge of them.. Perhaps one of the most solemn, •
awful poems' of , present century is ^ The Vision of the
Desert.’ . Let his. ima.gination Smd metaphysical faCulty .be
well yoked and guided by his own cultivated taste, and we must
airadmit the advent-df a great ■pQet.”~Britbh Quartei'h/ Review. •
DALDY, IS.BlSTivR, & CO., 56, LUDGATE HILL, LONDON.
BEATRICE,
\ AND OTHER POEilS.
Fcap. $%'o, 7s. .
By The II 0 N. ROD EN NO EL,.
It is impoBsible to read ‘ Beatrice ’ through without being
,ppwerful.ly;mdv:ed.'' There, afg passages in it Which for intensity
and tenderness, clear'and vivjd vision, spontanemia, and delicate
Sympathy, may be compared with* the best efforts of our best
lining w titers'. Sped at or.
i , % MACMILLAN &EO., LONDON,
BOOKS PUBLISHED AT “PSYCHE” OFFICE.
TRANSCENDENTAL PHYSIC^, an account of ex-
^ perimenthl investigations, by Johann Carl .Friedrich
Zpllner, Professor1 of Physical Astronomy at the
University of Leips'rc, translated from the German,
with a preface and appendices^ by, Charles Carleton
Massey, of Lincoln’s Inn, Barrister-at-Law. Illus¬
trated,. 12s. 6d.
A PHILOSOPHY OF IMMORTALITY, by the Hon.
Roden Noel. Author of || A Little Child’s Monu-
I' ment,”' etc. 7s, 6d^ I
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS,
1 by Captain John James, lorifttrly of the Ninetieth
"Lihht Infantry. 2s. 6d.
1 spontaneous .apparitions, in private families: By
W. H.. Harrison. 5s. 6d..-''-/
A GLANCE AT THE PASSION PLAY, by Captain
R. F Burton. With a Frontispiece. 5s. 6d.
MOTHER SHIPTON .INVESTIGATED, by W. H.
Harrison 1;' Is. .c';v 'fl’--. .
THE LAZY LAYS, by W, II. Harrison. 5s.
RIFTS IN THE VEIL, a collection of poems and essays^
many of them given through medlumism. 3s. 6d.
SPIRIT IDENTITY, by M. A. Oxon. 5s,.
A CLERGYMAN.ON SPIRITUALISM, with apre-:
face by Lisette Makdougall Gregory. Is.
PSYCHIC FACTS, a collection of authoritative evidence
demonstrating psychical phenomena. 5s. ;
v. ’PSYCHE.
H (Formerly The Spiritualist). Established in 1869.
Published Monthly. Pkice Sixpence.
.Subscription to the present volume (ten numbers from March to
December 18^2),,5s. lOd,, Post Free within the limits of the United j
Kingdom, and within the English arid Foreign Postal Union. ,
\ EDITED BY WILLIAM H. IIARRl^ON,:v
§ 38, Museuip?street, 1 London. ,;
The following Authors Kavri published their names iri connectioh
with their Literary Contributions to this journal :—\ •’
His Imperial,, Highness ■ Ni-
| cnoLA£,Duke'of Leuo.hteriberg
(Russia). |
The Lord Lindsay. F.R.S., (Earl
vbf, Crawford and Balcarres),
President of the Roj^al Astro¬
nomical Siobiety
The Rigiit Hon. the' Countess
op Caithness .
The Hon. Roden Noel
The P>aeoness Von Vay, Coun-
| teSs'Wiirinbrand. (Austria)
The HoN. Robert Dale Owen,
1. formerly Americari Minister at
the Court of Naples .
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakop,
. . St. Petersburg .
Sir. CfiARLESj Ishamj Bart.
Capt. ,R. vF. Burtonvk;,F.R.G-. S.
Alfred RusBel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
| Madame Juliet Heubtley
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
Samuel Guppy, Esq* -'
C. C. Massey, Esq'. |
Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of
i* th e Psychological Society of
Great Britain,
Alexander Galdee, Esq. .'.
Colonel H. S. Oloott, President
of the Theosophioal Society.
i: Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
, Miss Douglas
G. C. Ottley, Esq. g'.
■' Gerald Massey, Esq. •;
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Captain John James
• S. C Hall; Esq., F.S.A.
F. Pot.MORE, Esq., B.A, (Oxon),
Mrs. S. C. Hall -
■ Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D. •
William Oxlky, Esq.
;Stanhope T. . Speer, Esq., M.D,
Miss 0. A. Burke . |
Robert S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
| The Rev. Maurice Davies, D.D.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.,
. C. .Blackburn).;Esq., Parkfield,
-Didsbury, near Manchester
Mme. Blavatsky, (India) s
Mrs. Louisa Lowe
J. T. Marklky, Esq.
Here Christian Reimers ■
Mrs. L°Uisa Andrews
:|Mrs. Fj. Boucher | |
Mrs. Nosworthy
Piunce Emile de Sayn Witt-
gi-:nstein (Wiesbaden)
BaRon Von Dirokincjc-Holm-
FklD; (Holstein) ■,
J. W. Edmonds, Esq., Jud^e of
the Supreme Court, New York.
The; Count dk Bullet
The Hon; J. L. O’Sullivan,
jformerly Ammoan Minister at
; the Court of Portugal. S:M
M. Auei-Berth DE’BouRBON.First *
i Lieut.: of the Dutch Guard to
- the King of fhe Netherlands
M. L. t, Clavairoz (Leon
Favre) • "j*
William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S I
C: F. Varley, Esq.,C.H.; F.R..S
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B ,
Surgeon-Major, A.M.D.
George C. Jo ad, Esq. r
St) George - W. Stock, Esq.,
II.A., (Oxon) .
E. Fortescue Ingram, Esef.,
: M.R.C.S.
Mynheer J. F. A. '. Cateau van 1
.. : Rosevelt, Mem. Privy Conn-1
■- ■eil of Dutch Guiana
R. Friese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. A.- Campbell, Esq., B.A.
(Cantab)
D. H.Wilson,Esq.;M .A., LL.M
-(Cantab)
Major-GRnbral Maclean ■ '
L M; Gully, Esq., M.D.
jKpES Sargent, Esq.) -
I Mrs. Gordon, (India)'
[•J. G. .Luxmoore, Esq., J.P.
iJ. N. T. Martheze, Esq. •
WILLIAM NKWT0N,Esq.,F.R.G .S.
H. G. AtkinsoN, Esq., F.G.S.
0. Carter Blake, Esqs Doe. Sci.
H. Ml Dunphy, Esq.
Mrs. Matheson
Algernon JoY,Esq.,M.Inst C.E
JpriN P. Turner, Esq.
HENSREIGtl Webgwood, Efq.
The Rev. W. Whitear
Signor Rondi ,;
Dr. George Wyld
W. Lindesay Richardson, Esq.-,
M.D,,, Melbourne
D. FiTzGERALDvEsq.,M-S.Tel.E.
T. P. Bark as, Esq., E.G.S, ,
Mbs. Woodporde
William WHiTE, Esq. .
Miss Corner
Miss Florence Marryat
Madame Isabel dk.Steiger -
Mrs. Showers, (India) ■
Robert. Cooper, Esq.
Fsyche is regularly on sale at 38, Museum-street, London ;
5, Rue Nenve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal, Paris; 84, Russell-
street-South, Melbourne ; arid at the chief centres cf Spiritualism
in Europe and America, ’ >
v Colonel aiinHYi Retigio-Philosophicul Journal offieej Chicago, is
the publishing ageni for Rsydlie in theXTuited States^'
‘ ) Advertising terms bn application.
No. 495. (Vol. 21. No. 3.) MAY, 1882.
PUBLISHED
MONTHLY.
SPHYGMOGRAPHY.
(Continued from page 8.^)
Directions for Making the Smoked Paper.
1. A stiff, smooth white note paper of the Albert size,
i.e., about six inches in length, is cut into strips of one
inch in breadth—any bookbinder will do this.
2. Place one of these strips in the tin-plate holder,
which covers half an inch of each end.
3. Take a piece of camphor about the size of a bean,
put it on a plate or other convenient place and ignite
it.
4. Pass the paper in its holder several times rapidly
over the top of the flame, not in the flame, as this would
burn in the smoke and prevent the needle removing it
easily. We thus get a strip of paper with five inches of
its surface properly smoked and ready for use.
5. When the tracing has been made, write on the
paper with something pointed, e.g., a toothpick, the
patient’s name, his position ( | standing, — lying, / sit¬
ting), the pressure of the spring, the date, and any short
note'you wish to make.
Bemarks.—It is best to make these smoked papers at
home, and to ca^ry them to the patient’s house in a
small box provided for that purpose, and to replace
them in the box when the tracing is made, in order to
convey them home to be varnished.
Directions for Varnishing the Smoked Papers.
The best varnish for this purpose is that used by photo¬
graphers, called Crystal Varnish. A glass vessel about
six inches high and 1J inch in diameter is filled with
this varnish, and the smoked paper dipped into it for a
second and then withdrawn. The varnished paper,
smoked side uppermost, is then laid on a piece of blot¬
ting-paper. In two minutes it is perfectly dry, and ready
for fixing in the case book.
The instrument is manufactured by, and can now be
obtained from Mr. John Ganter, of 19, Crawford Street,
Montague Square, London.
Except that the traces were thought to be
large enough, there was no reason why Dr.
Dudgeon’s sphygmographs should not have
been made to magnify the pulse vibrations
many more than fifty times; in fact, he has one
in his possession which gives larger sphygmo-
grams than usual. As sphygmography be¬
comes more studied, and critical questions
arise as to the causes of small variations in
the curves, no doubt larger instruments will
come into use. Dr. Dudgeon’s instrument is
defective in that it is too small for advanced
students. Here and there the white line in
the tracings is sometimes thickened by the
smaller vibrations of the needle, the curves
of these portions being lost instead of being
saved by a larger sweep of the pointer, and a
quicker motion of the paper. The first
portion of the descending part of the curve,
down to the aortic notch, is that which is
alone of value in most of Dr. Purdon’s re¬
searches, and it would have been advantageous
were this section given on a larger scale.
Another easily remedied defect is, that after
having put the instrument in its place, the
present method of fastening the band tends
to pull it from its true position, especially
when the sphygmograph is used on the left
wrist, where there is no resistance of the
bone against the adverse pull due to the act
of clamping.
The following method of preparing the
tracing papers has been devised and success¬
fully used for a long time by Staff Sergeant
Fall:
Station Hospital, Guernsey, March, 1882.
Sir,—The apparatus designed by me for carbonising
sphygmograph papers, consists of a wooden box, 22 inches
long, 10 inches wide, and 8 inches deep, lined with tin
on the bottom and sides, together with a perforated sheet
of the same metal placed transversely in the centre.
so
:p S O ££ £3 _
The papers, which should be cut the required size, are
slipped over studs permanently fixed to the sides of the
top, thus forming a roof to the box, which at other times
is left open together with the lower half of one end,
which is kept for the introduction of an iron basin fixed
to the end of aflat piece of iron sufficiently long to reach
to the end of the box, and to which is affixed a wooden
handle. A little wet sand or earth is then put in this
vessel with about half an ounce of camphor in pieces
placed here and there, so as to prevent melting into a
mass and causing a large flame which would give much
heat and little smoke. The vessel is then moved slowly
backwards and forwards, by which means the smoke
passes through the perforated tin, and deposits the car¬
bon on the paper. Twenty of these papers can be made
at one time ; and of course more according to 1 he length
of the box, with a proportional increase of camphor.
About ten minutes is, as a rule, long enough to impart
to the sphygmographic papers the necessary amount of
darkness to enable the needle of the instrument to write
sharply. If kept longer than this, the papers leave a
thick deposit of carbon which is tilted off by the needle,
thus spoiling the trace. The object in having a parti¬
tion of perforated tin in the centre of the box, is to
prevent the papers from being burnt or scorched, in
which case the needle passes over the paper without
marking. After each time the apparatus is used it would
be well to take a hand brush and sweep the sheet of tin,
the holes of which soon become choked with soot, there¬
by causing much loss of time, and failure.
If the papers are required to be made in large quanti¬
ties, a second box could be constructed with the roof
and one end open for the first one to fit in, so that the
smoke escaping from the first box, might be utilised for
carbonising a second row of papers placed on the top of
the second box, the upper end of which should be closed
to prevent the exit of the smoke.
It is necessary to add that on account of the exceeding
blackness of the smoke arising during the use of this
apparatus, it should not be used in a drawing-room, or
in a place where works of art are kept. I would there¬
fore recommend those who wish to adopt the above plan
of making sphygmographic papers, to do so in an empty
room where free ventilation exists. The inhalation of
carbon is not conducive to good health, as plainly mani¬
fested by the mortality caused by the late London fogs.
I have the honor to be, Sir, your obedient servant,
Edward Fall, Staff Sergeant
and Compounder of Medicines, Army Hospital Corps.
W. H. Harrison, Esq. {To be continued).
T'hie Chrouxclje.
MEDITJMSHIP IN INDIA.
In the April No. of The Theosophisi (Bom¬
bay) Madame Blayatsky says about Mr. Eg-
linton’s visit to India :—“We refused going
to Calcutta to meet him, and felt obliged to
deny ourselves and our numerous members”
[of the Bombay Theosophical Society ?] “ the
instructive pleasure of seeing him here, as
was several times proposed. We have done
so intentionally. Feeling that we had no
right to subject him to insulting suspicions—
such as we had ourselves to suffer from, and
which once we were brought together would
be sure to follow in our trail,—we abstained
from seeing him, and spoke even of his work
but casually once or twice in this journal,
and only for the purpose of giving publicity
to some wonderful phenomena of his ” ...
“ we would never advise a professional
medium, unless he is a coarse-fibred charlatan,
to bring to India his ‘ angel guides.’ ”
It is hard upon Anglo-Indians if they are
to have no choice between witnessing psy¬
chical phenomena either through the powers
of Madame Blavatsky or through coarse-
fibred charlatans. This is riot the first time
that individuals with psychical powers have
done their best to enforce somewhat similar
alternatives. It is an old story.
Madame Blavatsky says :—“ Our cautious
policy inspired by a natural feeling of deli¬
cacy—more for his sake than our own—was
misunderstood nnd misinterpreted by our best
friends.”
A FEATURE OF MATERIALISM.
A few evenings ago in one of his usual
clear and sparkling Sunday evening addresses
to the Marylebone Society of Spiritualists, at
the Quebec Hall, 25, Great Quebec Street,
Marylebone, Mr. Mac Donnell criticised
Robert Ingersoll the American atheist, and
his work. He commended his honesty and
efficient action, but argued that the universal
acceptance of his teachings would be de¬
structive to human happiness, and crushing
to the hopes and aspirations of man. He
however considered a certain amount of such
work as Ingersoil’s to be good for the world,
good for religion, good for Spiritualism at
the present time. Men must clear the ground
before they could build upon it efficiently,
and persons like Ingersoll who pulled up
rotten piles, destroyed shams and applied the
3? S IT O ZEE DE.
31
hammer to worthless images, were but clear¬
ing the ground which Spiritualism would
afterwards quietly enter and occupy. Image
breakers of Ingersoil’s class could not per¬
manently extirpate anything that was good.
MESMERISM AT FOLKESTONE.
A few evenings ago some mesmeric experi¬
ments were performed in the schoolrooms of
the Congregational Chapel at Folkestone, by
Mr. Turner, a working man, who differed
from all other lecturers I have heard, by
saying not a word from first to last, an ex¬
ample which might be imitated with ad¬
vantage in the House of Commons. Mr.
Kerr did the speaking for him, and performed
the first experiment by mesmerising Mr.
Turner himself till he fell insensible upon
the platform; his body was then made rigid
by passes, and placed horizontally in the air,
with his head resting on the back of one chair
and his heels on the back of another, with no
intermediate support. While he was in this
position Dr. Perry testified that his heart was
beating all right. When Mr. Turner was
“brought to ” he proceeded with -success to
mesmerise others. This is interesting because
a mesmerist is usually supposed to possess
much will-power, and mesmeric sensitives
little. In our opinion the will is a much less
potent force in all mesmeric operations than
is popularly supposed. Mr. Bent entertained
the observers with some conjuring, and a
cleverly delivered German song.
LIZZIE GANNON.
Lizzie Gannon, of 141, Hudson Street,
Boston, Mass., who, as mentioned in our last,
has been almost constantly in a trance and
speechless since a priest took away an image
which had a mesmeric effect upon her, is
still slowly sinking in strength, and wasting
away. Some of the Boman Catholic Church
officials have exhausted their ceremonies over
her without conferring any benefit, and Dr.
Hodges, one of the best medical men in
Boston, says he can do nothing for her. Dr.
J. R. Newton could probably cure her.
SPIRITUAL REALITIES AND MATERIALISTIC SHADOWS.
In looking over my notes of the only sermon
I ever heard preached by Mr. Stopford Brooke,
I find that in speaking of the practical and
materialistic tendencies of the time, more
especially in this country, he said that if any
man as his years advanced became more
practical at the expense of losing all of the
ideal in his nature, all ennobling passion, and
became a mere cold clay-heap, it was not be¬
coming practical but becoming paralysed.
All the real imagination and worship of the
heart have fled away from such a man, who
is then one of the saddest sights in the world.
A RUSSIAN GHOST STORY.
I have received the following letter :—
Sir,—Two hundred miles to the north-east of Moscow
is a place called Kostroma, and it may be said to be on
the borders of European civilisation, for the forest com¬
mences there and stretches almost un brokenly up to
Archangel. My correspondent, a Russian lady, writing
from that quarter, sends me the following ghost story,
which I copy and send you, and here let me congratulate
you on the neat appearance of our new acquaintance,
Psyche, and wish for it a useful and profitable career.
My friend writes :—“ We have had here lately a strange
incident that will interest you. In one of the villages at
some distance from us a workman who was a great
drunkard died from the consequences of a drunken
brawl, and it is rumoured that his spirit has appeared in
different places and has been seen by several people. A
little peasant boy asked one afternoon leave from his
father to go to sleigh down a hill, as the children do here
for the whole winter. The father who was cross at the
time, sent him to all the d s; however, the boy went,
and did not come home until midnight, when he
appeared in a most miserable condition and swooned as
soon as he entered the room. He related later on that
he had been taken by the spirit of the deceased man who
made him walk through almost impossible places, beating
him when he would not obey, and lifting him through
places where he could not walk. Is the child a medium ?
Did he really see what he related? Or was it a bad
dream that he had while he slept in some outhouse ? He
was bruised in the arms and legs. The mother of our
schoolmistress, who went to seethe child, says that there
were on his arms bruises like impressions of five fingers.
However, it is difficult to get at the truth of the whole.
H ere the people think that the father sending his son to
the d , gave the evil spirit power to play such tricks
upon him.”
The dream theory will not I think account for the five
finger-marks that the boy had on his arms, or for the
other bruises. The opinion formed by the people may
be and is no doubt highly orthodox, but not necessarily
correct. I will answer for the cultured intelligence and
truthfulness of my correspondent, who is known to many
London Spiritualists, but whose name, without her per¬
mission I could not give you for publication.
Joseph Swinburne.
9, Dorchester Place, Blandford Square,
London. April 5th, 1882.
A DISCOVERY IN INDIA.
One of our contributors writes:—
u I have had another interesting letter from my son,
who has been for some months out on a surveying ex¬
pedition for the rectification of maps, along the banks of
the Indus. He tells me of some excavations by a Mr.
Barlow, whose acquaintance he has made; I will quote
from his letter :—* He has lately been making some most
interesting excavations at a village called Koterah,
(N. W. P.) He has brought to light a quantity of
(supposed) Buddhist remains, estimated to be about
:p siren :e .
32
2,500 years old, consisting of plaster casts of heads,
human figures, cornices, and other ornaments. They
display a very high-class of art, and bear so strong a
resemblance to the old Greek sculptures, that I cannot
help fancying the Greeks must have had some hand in
their production, especially as all this part of the country
is well known to have been conquered by Alexander.
Through Mr. Barlow’s kindness, I was enabled to make
some sketches of some of the most striking examples,
and also a sketch of the village where they are dis¬
covered.’ ”
THE CRIME OF “ QVAKSALVERI ” UNDER THE LAWS OF
DENMARK.
Mr. C. E. Taylor, the leading man among
the Spiritualists of St. Thomas, Danish West
Indies, and an occasional contributor to these
pages, has been prosecuted by the Danish
government at the instigation of Councillor
A. H. Riise the only apothecary in the town,
for practising mesmerism and selling homoeo¬
pathic pills. The charge was the criminal
one of Qvaksalveri, which the judge defined to
be “ the taking of patients under cure with¬
out having legal authority. ’ ’ The prosecution
was chiefly founded upon an old act dated
1672. As there was no question that Mr.
Taylor had both practised mesmerism and
cured people by it gratuitously, he was pro¬
nounced a criminal in the following terms:—
[Free Translation.^
EXTRACT FROM THE SENTENCE PROTOCOL OF ST. THOMAS
JURISDICTION.
On Friday 23rd December, 1881, at 2 o’clock p.m.,
was pronounced in the Special Town Court, St. Thomas,
in the Criminal Suit No. 46, 1881.
Lawyer Petersen, for the Complainant,
versus.
Bookseller C. E. Taylor,
THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. *
According to the Government order of the 15th, last
month, action was taken in this case against Bookseller
C E. Taylor, or, as he himself declares his full name to
be, Edwin "William Charles Bernardo Taylor, of St.
Thomas, for Quackery and Illegal Sale of Medicines.
In regard to the first clause it is according to the de¬
fendant’s own acknowledgement, which agrees with what
else had been elucidated, proved that he, who has no
right' to practice Medicine in this country, has in the last
two or three years taken sick persons of different classes
under treatment, and has used a manner of treatment,
which from the description he has given of the same, and
to use his own term, must be classed under the denomin¬
ation of Animal Magnetism. Besides, defendant, in
some instances, has given his patients Homoeopathic
pills.
According to the depositions made in the case, it is
mainly for internal sickness such as from fever, dropsy,
thrush, and epilepsy, that the defendant, in this way, has
taken people under treatment, and he has besides ex¬
plained that he has only taken people under his care at
their own desire, and also that he has never asked nor
received payment from his patients.
Notwithstanding that it is not proved that the defen¬
dant’s treatment has been detrimental to those treated
by him, it appears, even from several of the descriptions
in the case, that several of his patients have felt soothing
and curative effects from the treatment used, he cannot
be exempted from being punished according to the law of
5th September, 1794, section 5, for his above mentioned
deeds.
As far as concerns the Action for illegal sale of medi¬
cines, it must be considered, from the explanations given
by him, sufficiently proved that he in his book store in
this town, has had for several years a stock of Homoeo¬
pathic medicines and Homoeopathic sugar balls which
he has imported partly from New York and partly from
Europe. These medicines the defendant, it is said, de¬
livered gratuitously to people who applied to him for
them. He denies having sold medicines, as he only sold
books containing Homoeopathic directions for the use of
them, and with the sale the medicines followed without
a particular payment. It must, however, be considered
just that the defendant’s way of acting constitutes a real
sale, not only of the books but also of the accompanying
medicines. Defendant’s deeds ought, therefore, in that
respect be considered to be an infringement of the laws,
especially the law of 4th December, 1672, section 30, and
placard of 1st December, 1779, against the sale of medi¬
cines in general and foreign medicines in particular, out¬
side of the Apothecary Shop.
The defendant, who states that he was born in London,
12th June, 1843—and who has not been found formerly
accused or punished here in these Islands—will, accord¬
ing to what has been stated above, be punishable, accord¬
ing to the cited laws, by a fine of $76,80, to be shared
according to rescript of 12th October, 1759, and Royal
Resolution 27th February, 1788, and besides the stock
of Homoeopathic medicine in hand liable to be confiscated,
and payment of Court Expenses.
The case having been properly conducted, it is there¬
fore, decided: that the defendant, Edwin William
Charles Bernardo Taylor, ought to pay a fine of $76,80,
to be shared according to rescript 12th October,
1759, and Royal Resolution, 27th February, 1788, also
to pay Court Expenses, besides the Homoeopathic
remedies ought to be confiscated.
The above fine to be paid and the sentence executed
according to law within fifteen days after it is legally
served. Signed, H. Hanschell, Const.
Correct extract confirmed,—Signed, H. Hanschell,
Const.
The wretched criminal, still unrepentant at
having healed the sick for nothing, is actually
dissatisfied with the foregoing sentence, and
has appealed against it. The Governor of the
Island and nearly all the leading inhabitants
have expressed sympathy for him; hut are
powerless against the law. Mr. Taylor has,
under advice, prepared a petition to the King
of Denmark, for leave to work as a mes¬
merist : this will he accompanied hy a
memorial containing an account, he says, of
his studies in psychology, the many cures he
has effected when all other means had proved
futile, the prosecution that has been instituted
IP S “2“ C IK E
33
against him, and the desire of rthe people'of
the island that his services should he recog¬
nised, and he be allowed to continue to do
good. This recommendation has been signed
by the chairman, vice-chairman, secretaries,
and other members of the Colonial Council,
the prosecuting and defending lawyers, nearly
every one of the consuls, and all the leading
merchants and inhabitants of St. Thomas.
The unanimity with which this has been done
is a sufficient proof how profoundly stirred
are the Danish West Indian people at such old
laws being raked up to injure and ruin a
man.
A TEST SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPH.
Spirit Photography is a reality, but so
open in all directions to easy imposition
upon the uninitiated, as to be the most
dangerous section of all the phenomena of
Spiritualism for the publication of any cases
which are not of the closest test character.
At present the careless publication of weak
cases of alleged materialisation phenomena,
is making a perfect wreck of the reputation
of Spiritualism in America, as it had begun
to do here until the system was checked of
printing any cabinet seances which were not
of a test character. Spirit Photography is
more dangerous ground even than cabinet
seances. The following valuable piece of
evidence has been sent me as it was printed
in The Kansas City Journal, of March 19th,
1882 :—
Actual Experience with an Artist in Kansas City.
I desire to state briefly my experience lately had
relative to the phenomenon known as Spirit Photography
given through Mrs. Lizzie Carter at the photographic
gallery of Mr. Julius Ploetz, No. 618, Main Street,
this city.
The subject having elicited much interest among in¬
vestigators in this city and vicinity, many of those who
had sat for a photograph with the lady claiming to
recognise in the spirit faces produced in their pictures
the familiar faces of departed friends, it was pro¬
posed to Mrs. Carter to give a photograph under
test conditions, to which she cheerfully consented. Con¬
sequently on the 4th inst. Mr. ~W. W. Judson, Mrs.
Fred. Meyers, Mrs. H. M. Johnson, Mr. John E.
Flemming, and your humble servant constituted ourselves
a committee to investigate this phase of mediumship,
and we lay herewith before your readers the details of
our investigation and its result.
We first procured a plate holder in Mr. Ploetz’s
gallery, fitting the camera through which Mr. Carter
operated, and with it proceeded to the photographic
gallery of Messrs. Williams and Thomson, 612, Main
Street, and requested Mr. Thomson, one of the pro¬
prietors, to place in that plate holder, in„ our presence,
a prepared plate for taking a photograph, stating to him
that we desired him to go with us, as we wanted the
photograph taken by another photographer at another
gallery in his presence, for scientific investigation. The
plate was prepared by the operator at the gallery of
Williams and Thomson in our presence, placed in the
plate holder; the plate was then wrapped in a covering
by Mr. Thomson to exclude the light, and carried by
Mr. Thomson—thus we returned together to the gallery
of Mr. Ploetz. Mr. Thomson was here introduced to
Mrs. Carter, and requested to hand to her the plate
holder. The background in Mr. Ploetz’s gallery had
been covered over with a plain white curtain. Mrs.
Carter requested that the camera in which she intended
to place the plate holder be examined, which was accord¬
ingly done by Mr. D. P. Thomson, as an expert in pho¬
tography. Next your humble servant was invited to
sit for a photograph. There were present at the time
in the room the following named persons : Mrs. Virginia
J. Judson, Mr. W..W. Judson,.M1*1 H. M. Johnson,
Mr. J. Robinson, Mr. John E. Flemming, Mr. Fred.
Meyers, Mr. D. P. Thomson, photographer, all of
Kansas City, Mo., and Mr. Jacob Sherman, of Astoria,
Long Island. Mrs. Carter, who had not for a moment
left the room, now placed the camera in position,
removed the covering from the plate holder, placed it in
the camera without having opened it, and after the lapse
of eight seconds, during which time she* placed her hands
on the camera, removed the plate holder, and without
opening it handed it back to Mr. Thomson, with the
request to go to his own gallery to develope the plate.
The committee followed Mr. Thomson to his gallery
in the dark room, where Mr. Thomson handed the plate
holder to his operator, to develope in our presence.
The operator admitted that this was the same plate he
had placed in that plate holder a few minutes before, and
that it was there just as he placed it.
He applied the necessary chemicals generally used by
photographers to develope the plate,only these and nothing
more, and on presenting the negative to the light the out¬
lines of five human faces were, and are now, distinctly
impressed upon the negative, in addition to the face of
the sitter. These are the facts and the result of our in¬
vestigation, and we lay them before your readers as they
occurred in our presence. Respectfully,
H. F. Bungardt.
We, the undersigned members of the committee and
spectators present at the time of taking the photograph
as above stated, having carefully perused the foregoing
statement of the proceedings, acknowledge the same to
be correct in every particular.
Mrs. Virginia J. Judson.
William W. Judson.
Jacob Sherman.
H. M. Johnson.
Justin Robinson.
Fred. Meyers.
John E. Flemming.
D. P. Thompson, photographer.
Kansas City, Mo., March 11th, 1882.
Julius Ploetz, Photographer, on Spirit Photography.
Although I am not what is termed a Spiritualist, I
deem it but just and right to state that while Mrs. Lizzie
Carter was taking spirit photographs at my gallery she
prepared her plates in my presence and the presence of
my operators, and over two-thirds of all the plates she
used were prepared and developed by myself or my
operators, all in the same manner, with the same chemicals
34
IP S "ST O ZEE ZEU .
as used by myself. In taking other photographs, she
used the same camera and the same furniture which I use
daily and which have been used at my gallery for over
ten years, but on all the photographs she took appeared
from two to eight human faces in addition to that of the
sitter. I desire to further state that during the time that
Mrs. Carter operated at my gallery, my operators and
myself have frequently, without the knowledge of Mrs.
Carter, tested in various ways her so-called mediumship,
by exchanging plates which she had handled and prepared
from the plate holders, placing new plates prepared by
ourselves ‘in the same, such as she had never seen or
handled before, but still it did not change the result;
human faces in addition to faces of sitters would appear
on every photograph she took. I will further state that
she has taken a number of photographs of persons,
strangers to her, known to me to be not Spiritualists but
sceptics; still the result was the same.
I have been a practical photographer for over twenty
years, am well acquainted with all the details of the
business, and declare there is no chemical process known
by which the phenomenon such as produced by Mrs.
Carter can be duplicated. The only observable difference
I have been able to discover in her operations from
other photographers during the time that she operated
at my gallery is, that Mrs. Carter generally lays her
hands on the camera when she takes the photograph. Of
course, myself, assisted by other experts in photography,
among other experiments made, did not fail to lay our
hands on the camera, stood on the same spot in the same
position generally occupied by herself, but it was of no
avail; the spirits would not and did not come for any or
either of us. Julius Ploetz,
Photographer, 618, Main street.
A RULE OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.
The Theosophical Society is a secret one,
with signs and pass-words. A copy of its
rnles dated 1882 has been sent me, and
among those rnles is the following one:—
“ XY. Any fellow who may he proved, to
the satisfaction of the Council, to have
slandered any brother or sister Theosophist
or to have written or uttered any words
calculated to injure such in any way, will
be required to substantiate the charges in¬
volved, or failing to do so in the opinion of
the majority of the Council, will be invited
to resign or will be expelled, as may seem
good to the President in Council, and the
name of the person so resigning or expelled
shall be published in the journal of the
Society, and thereafter all branches will be
required to refuse fellowship to the person
thus excluded from the Society.” This rule
seems to be uncommonly selfish and worldly,
coming as it does from a Society professing
to receive high other-world teachings from
Himalayan regions ; it leaves persons outside
the Society who may be slandered or injured
by a Theosophist, to shift for themselves.
It does not harmonise with the first sentence
in the first rule, namely:—“ The Theoso¬
phical Society is formed upon the basis of an
universal brotherhood of humanity.” The
whole edict reminds me of Peter Pindar’s
story, which runs somewhat to the effect that
once upon a time old King George, looking
over the palings of Windsor Park, saw a
hungry and penniless sailor unable to get
along because of his worn-out wooden leg;
the monarch was too economical to give any¬
thing to the tar, so advised him to cut a new
wooden leg out of the branch of a tree. Then
by wise and saving afterthought, His Majesty
told the sailor to be careful not to cut a
branch off any tree in the Royal Park, since
there were man-traps and spring-guns in
that privileged enclosure.
opinions of fletcher’s father.
The Religio-PhilosopJiical Journal of Chi¬
cago, an honest Spiritualist newspaper which
published the doings of the Pletchers in
England, prints a letter sent to it by Mr.
M. H. Fletcher, of Lowell, Massachusetts, in
which he says about some fraudulent imita¬
tions of spiritual phenomena at Clyde,
Ohio :—
“ All honour, I say, to the Religio-Philosophical
Journal.” “Let Spiritualists frown upon all
Spiritual (so-called) papers, who [sic] allow them¬
selves to become the defenders of fraud. Let Spirit¬
ualists stand by their organs that have the courage and
honesty to denounce frauds wherever found. When this
is done, and certain Spiritualist papers find it does not
pay to champion fraud, they will cease doing so.”
Mind and Matter, a weekly Spiritualist
paper published at Philadelphia, and a warm
friend and advocate of mediums of the
Fletcher stamp, says of the foregoing extract,
u The biped who wrote that is the father of
J. Willie Fletcher,” and adds that it infers it
to be “a covert way of making known his
approbation ” of the treatment his son and
others have received. The same journal
states that the father is a man of special im¬
portance in Spiritualism as a director of the
Lake Pleasant Camp Meeting Association.
A warrant is out at the instance of the
Treasury, for the arrest of Fletcher by the
police should he set foot in this country.
The female convict in the case was released
on the 27th March last, at the expiration of
her term of punishment.
A MONUMENT TO THE BARON DU POTET.
At the request of several devoted friends
of the late Baron du Potet, the Baroness du
Potet has opened a subscription list for the
IP SIT a HIE.
35
erection of a commemoratiye monument
over the tomb of her late husband, the chief
of modern mesmerists. The following in¬
scription will be placed on the monument:—
A M. Denis, Jules, Baron du Potet de Sennevoy,
Bienfaiteur de 1’Humanite, Chief de 1’Ecole Magnetique
Moderne. Ses Eleves et ses Admirateurs reconnaissants.
Subscriptions for this object are received
by the Baroness du Potet, 10, Rue du Dragon,
Paris ; also by M. Louis Auffinger, formerly
secretary to the Baron du Potet, 15, Rue du
Four-Saint* Q-ermain, Paris. The monument
will be unveiled at the Cemetery of Mont¬
martre, at two o’clock, on the second of July
next, the anniversary of the death of the
Baron.
SPIRITUALISM IN AMERICA.
The reputation of Spiritualism in America
is being fast wrecked by cabinet stances, and
by the misconduct of some of the worst section
of physical mediums, so that some of the
lower journals there have of late been defend¬
ing one or two imposture cases a week. The
Banner of Light has censured Mr. E. W.
Wallis, the English medium, for stating the
fact that he and others saw a mask in use at
a seance; that mask has since been captured;
it is a much worn and wretched thing with
tinsel and gewgaws about it. Mr. Wallis
writes to the Religio-Philosophical Journal:—
“ Some Boston friends were interested in getting up a
farewell reception to me a few days previous to my de¬
parture, to help me to meet the expenses of the voyage
and wish me God-speed, but the editor of the Banner
flatly refused to do anything whatever to further the
object, and those friends have withdrawn from the pro¬
ject because of his being down on me, and the division
that would result. Truly it does not pay to tell the truth,
but pay or not, the truth must be spoken and these frauds
discountenanced.
“ The Banner states that no paraphernalia have been
taken from Mrs. Hull, although I am told correspondents
had informed the editor to the contrary. I have seen
the mask and the illusion with the gold tinsel pasted
upon it, and flowers cut from cretonne and stitched upon
it; in many places the latter are stitched over the tinsel,
proving that this drapery must have been frequently
used.”
FISHER DOHERTY AND THE EVIL ONE.
In Indiana one James Moore lives in the
Binford farmhouse, on what is ominously
named Lye Creek. Strange noises were
heard in the house; the family and neigh¬
bours concluded that the dwelling was haunt¬
ed, for after tearing up a floor and otherwise
investigating, no clue to the disturbances
could be found, An authority was evidently
wanted to quiet agitated minds, and a person
of due intellectual weight in the world, one
Fisher Doherty, came one evening to settle
the whole matter. Says the"] Craw for dsville
Review (Indiana):—
“ It was dusk when Fisher got there, just about the
time for spirits to come. Mrs. Moore said she was sorry
he had come as she had found by praying to God the
spirit or devil would not come that night. While she
was speaking, a distant rumbling noise, something be¬
tween a cyclone and a bass drum was heard.
“ e There it comes ! ’ exclaimed Mrs. Moore.
“ It struck the house with great force, knocking the
chunks from the cracks in the wall. Fisher began asking
questions, all of which were answered.
“ The spirit reported to be one Widdis P. Moore, a
brother of Mr. Moore and a former teacher in the county.
After ascertaining the object of the noise, Fisher said to
the spirit:
“ ‘ Will you move something ? ’
“ .* Rap, rap, rap.’
“ A hat was set on the floor, and was by unseen hands,
raised up and down.
“ ‘ Will you bring that hat to me ? ’
“ Immediately it was raised from the floor and floated
through the air to where Fisher stood. This was the
first time Fisher had ever seen an object moved by an
invisible power ; he became greatly interested and made
arrangements with the spirit to meet him in three
weeks.”
Before the three weeks had expired, the
wooden house was literally demolished by
stones the size of turnips hurled by invisible
power, and the family had to remove to the
house of Mr. William Moore, near Crawfords-
ville.
THE MARRIAGE OF COLONEL GRECK AND
MRS. OLIVE.
On Tuesday, March 11th, the marriage took
place in St. Petersburg, of Colonel Pietro
Pietro witch Greek, Kt., Imperial Civil En¬
gineer, and Eliza Morgan (late Olive) of
Wimborne and London. The ceremony was
performed at the French Protestant Church,
like all Russian marriages it took place in
the evening, and at about eight o’clock. At
the close of the honeymoon the happy couple
will take up their abode at Colonel Greek’s
home, some two hundred miles north of
Moscow, and fifty miles from the nearest
railway station. His estate is surrounded by
forests in which wolves, bears, sables and
stone martins abound;^ it is an excellent
region for furs of various descriptions.
Colonel Greek has had much experience in
railway construction in Russia.
RESULTS OF ONE OF PROFESSOR ZOLLNER’S EXPERIMENTS
See next Page,
TO SUBSCRIBERS AND CONTRIBUTORS.
The supply by post monthly of the present Volume
of Psyche from March to December inclusive {ten num¬
bers) is 5s. lOc?., to any place within the British and
Foreign Postal Union.
The charge for advertisements, narrow column, is 4s.
per month, for five printed lines or less. Larger adver¬
tisements inserted on moderate terms.
Post Office Orders should be made payable at the
Great Bussell Street Post Office, London. It is unsafe
to malee remittances by bulky enclosures of 'postage
stamps in letters.
The return of unsolicited literary communications
cannot be guaranteed; authors should keep copies of
their manuscripts.
All communications for the Editor should be addressed
to 38, Museum Street, London.
EXPERIMENTS BY PROFESSOR ZOLLNER.
Now that a cheap edition of Mr. Massey’s
translation of Professor Zollner’s valuable
work, Transcendental Physics, is about to
appear, the reproduction in these pages of
one of the engravings in it, and of Professor
Zollner’s record in relation thereto, may he
of interest. The engraving is therefore
given on the preceding page, and the follow¬
ing is the narrative of Herr Zollner, who is
Professor of Physical Astronomy at the Uni¬
versity of Leipsic, and has a world-wide re¬
putation as a first-class man of science : —
On the 5th May, 1878, at about twenty-five minutes
past four, Mr. Slade, Herr Oscar von Hoffnaann, and
I, took our places at the table and in the sun-lighted
room of which a photographic copy is seen in the frontis-
piece.* Besides a number of slates, purchased by my¬
self, there lay upon the table other things, among them
two small cardboard boxes, in which at Slade’s first
residence in Leipsic, in December 1877,1 had put some
pieces of money, and then firmly plastered it up outside
with strips of paper. I had already at that time been
in hopes of the removal of the enclosed pieces of money
without opening the boxes. However, my friends
and I were so astonished and occupied with the multi¬
tude of the other phenomena which happened at Slade’s
first and second visits to Leipsic (November and
December 1877), that I abandoned the above-mentioned
experiment for the time, and postponed it till Slade’s
return to Leipsic. One of these boxes was in form
circular, and within it was a large piece of money ;
this box was firmly fastened by a strip of paper, the
breadth of which corresponded to the height of the box,
and its length much exceeded the circuit of the box;
*6ee frontispiece to Transcendental Physics.—Ed.
so, indeed, that first the strip of paper was spread with
liquid glue on one side over its whole length and breadth,
and was then stuck several .times round the box, so that
the latter, after the fastening, presented the appearance
of a low cylinder of pasteboard. The other box was rect¬
angular, of the same sort as those in which steel pens
are kept. In this box I had put two small pieces of
money, and had then closed it by sticking a strip of paper
round it, perpendicularly to its length, by means of
liquid glue.
As mentioned above, I had already, in December, 1877,
fastened up these boxes, and as I had observed neither
the value of the enclosed coins nor their date, I could
afterwards only ascertain by the noise from shaking the
boxes, that enclosed in the circular one was a large Ger¬
man coin (a thaler or a five-mark piece), in the rectan¬
gular one two smaller coins; whether these were pennies,
groschen, or five-groschen pieces I had, after the lapse
of half a year, at the time of Slade’s last stay in Leipsic,
entirely forgotten.
After we had taken our places at the card-table on the
above-mentioned day in the manner described, I took
up the round box, and satisfied myself, by shaking, of
the presence of the coin I had enclosed in it. Herr O.
von Hoffmann did the same, and lastly Mr. Slade, who
asked us for what purpose I had designed this box. I
explained my purpose in a few words, and at the same
time declared that it would be one of the finest confirma¬
tions of the reality of the fourth dimension if his invisi¬
ble intelligent beings succeeded in removing that coin
from the box without opening it. Slade, ready, as
always, to conform to my wish, took in the usual manner
one of the slates which lay at hand, laid a morsel of slate-
pencil upon it (indeed, as it happened, a considerably
larger one than usual), and held the slate with his right
hand half under the table. We heard writing, and when
the slate was drawn out, there was found upon it the re¬
quest to lay a second piece of pencil on the slate, which
was done. Then Slade, who sat at my left (Von Hoff¬
mann was on my right), held the slate with the two bits
of pencil again under the table, while he as well as we
awaited intently what should come there. Meanwhile
the two fastened-up boxes lay untouched on about the
middle of the table. Some minutes passed without any¬
thing happening, when Slade gazed fixedly in a particu¬
lar direction in the corner of the room, and at the same
time said, quite astonished, but slowly, the words dragged
after one another, and partly with repetition : “ I see—
seefunfand eighteen hundred seventy-six.” Neither Slade
nor we knew what that could mean, and both Herr 0.
von Hoffmann and myself remarked almost simultane¬
ously that, at any rate, “ funf ” signified “funf ” (five),
and made the sum of the addition 5 +1876 =1881.
While I threw out this remark half in jest, we heard a
hard object fall on the slate, which Slade during all the
time had held under the table with his right hand (the
left lying before us on the table). The slate was im¬
mediately drawn out, and on it was found the five-mark
piece,with the date 1876. Naturally I forthwith snatched
up the pasteboard box standing before me, and which
during all the foregoing had been touched by nobody, to
ascertain, by shaking, the absence of the piece of money
which had been in it half-an-hour before; and behold !
it was quite empty and silent; the box was robbed of its
contents in the shape of the five-mark piece.
As may be supposed, dur pleasure at such an unhoped¬
for success of our experiment was extremely great; all
38
IP S IT O 331 E*.
the more, that by it at the same time was established the
existence of a direct perception of objects, not effected
in the ordinary way of our sense-perceptions.
Moreover, it could not be any so-called thought-read¬
ing by the medium; that is, the perception of representa¬
tions already in the heads of human beings. For neither
I, and much less Mr. Slade and Herr von Hoffmann, knew
what sort of coin there was in the box, nor what date it
bore.
I was so satisfied with the success of this experiment
under such stringent conditions that I was thinking of
putting an end to the sitting, and postponing further
attempts to a later one. However, Slade remarked that
he did not feel himself at all exhausted by the sitting,
which had lasted at most ten minutes. This remark of
Slade caused us to keep our places at the card-table,
and to engage in unconstrained conversation with him.
I introduced the subject of his sitting with the Grand
Duke Constantine of Russia, and requested him to
give us a detailed account of the phenomena which took
place at it, as hitherto we had seen only the brief para¬
graph statement about them in the press. Thus urged,
Slade mentioned that a very remarkable experiment in
slate-writing had succeeded in the presence of the G-rand
Duke Constantine. Accidentally there had been two
bits of pencil on the slate; when he held it under the
table the writing of two pencils was heard at the same
time, and when he drew out the slate the one pencil had
written from left to right, the other, at the same time,
from right to left. I at once proposed to try whether
this experiment would succeed also with us : the sugges¬
tion arose from me quite naturally, from the association
of ideas elicited by the two bits of pencil which had been
required in the above-mentioned experiment, without
our having as yet known the object of this written
demand.
Slade, at once ready to comply with my wish, held
the slate with the two bits of pencil under the table-
surface, and we soon heard, very clearly, writing upon
it.
When the slate was withdrawn there was on it a com¬
munication in English as follows:—
“10—Pfennig—1876.
2—Pfennig—1875.
Let this be proof to you of clairvoyance. After the nine
days you must rest, or it will harm you and the medium.
Believe in me, your friend.”
We at once referred the first part of this message to
the two coins contained in the rectangular box still un¬
opened. I was just about to open it, we having immedi¬
ately before convinced ourselves by shaking the box and
the distinct jingling within it, of the presence of the two
smaller coins, yet without knowing the value or date of
them. Suddenly, however, I changed my intention, and
set the little box again uninjured on the middle of the
table, while as well Herr von Hoffmann as also Slade
suggested the possibility that perhaps the two coins, in
like manner as shortly before the five-mark piece, might
fall from the unopened box upon the slate held under¬
neath. Immediately upon this suggestion, Slade again
held an empty slate under the middle of the table.
Scarcely was this done, when we distinctly heard two
coins drop down on the surface of the slate, and on closer
examination, the above statements on the slate we, in
fact, found confirmed. Highly delighted, I now seized
the still closed box in the confident expectation that it
Would, like the round box, be empty, and that, therefore.
on shaking no rattling within would be heard. How
great was my surprise when nevertheless the rattling
happened, proceeding, indeed, likewise from two bodies,
which yet, judging from the altered character of the
sound could not be coins. Already I was intending to
convince myself of the contents of the box by opening it,
which could not be done without tearing the strips of
paper pasted over it, when Slade prepared to get our
question answered, as usual in such cases, through slate¬
writing by his “ spirits.” Scarcely had he taken a slate
with a fragment of pencil lying upon it, and held it half
under the table, when we distinctly heard writing. Upon
the upper surface of the slate was written in English—
“ The two slate-pencils are in the box.”
In fact the two larger pieces of slate-pencil were no¬
where to be found, and when I now opened the box by
tearing the strip of paper glued to it, there within it, to
our delight, were both the pieces of pencil.
The fcregoing facts are of great value in a threefold
aspect. First, there is proved the occurrence of writing
under thfr influence of Slade, the purport of which was
necessarily unknown to him before. If is consequently
impossible that these writings occur under the influence
of the conscious will of Slade, whatever modus operandi
is presupposed.
Secondly, the apparent so-called passage through
matter is proved in a highly elegant and compendious
manner. In order to reach by the shortest way the
surface of the slate, the coins must apparently have
penetrated not only the walls of the box, but also about
20 millimetres thickness of the oak table. The two
slate-pencils must have travelled the same way in a
reverse direction from the surface of the slate.
Thirdly, by these experiments an incontrovertible
proof is afforded of the reality of so-called clairvoyance,
and that in a double way. The first time, with the five-
mark piece, the contents of the closed box appeared in
the form of a definite represented image in Slade’s in¬
tuitional life ; he “ saw ” the numbers 5 and 1876. The
second time this was not the case; but the contents were
communicated to us in the form of written characters on
the slate. The contents of this rectangular box must
therefore have existed as imaged in another, not a three-
dimensionally incorporated intelligence, before that
represented image could be transmitted to us by the aid
of writing. Hereby is proved, as it seems to me, in a
very cogent manner the existence of intelligent beings,
invisible to us, and of their active participation in our
experiments.
 i «»■ i 
EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER BY MRS.
HEURTLEY.
The following are extracts from a private
letter to an acquaintance in the North of
England, written by Mrs. Heurtley, whose
cruel experiences within the last two years
are so well known among Spiritualists:—
Extracts from a private letter of March, 1882, by J. H.
.... From my earliest recollection I have been consci¬
ous of a dominant yearning after an unknown “ heavenly ”
Light: born of parents possessing exceptionally refined
views of life and (although holding the Unitarian faith) of
unshackled religious feeling the earliest initiations they
imparted to my brother and myself in moral and religious
conceptions, were derived from a rigid daily discipline
:fs itqih: ie .
39
of the “ old school ” of filial obedience and of habits of
respect and regard for others’ feelings before consulting
our own.
Beyond the rudimentary knowledge imparted to us
concerning the existence of an All-Wise Grod pervading
nature, and creating all things, and who witnessed every¬
thing—no bias whatever was given to our young minds,
and thus we were free to receive those impressions which
subsequently grew upon our convictions, as our years
gradually developed the fruits of reflection (albeit though
by far different methods in each of our minds).
Our father was reserved and somewhat unapproachable
by young timid natures : but of our Mother ! what shall
I say to convey even a faint idea of the majestic beauty
of her mind and character ? She was much occupied
in the duties involved by her influence over a brilliant and
intellectual society, amongst whom she was greatly loved;
there was a peculiar charm attached to her magnetic
power of attracting, by the wisdom of her converse and
by her clear-seeing judgment. Unfortunately we saw
but comparatively little of this gifted and high-Souled
mother, but—all unknown to her or anyone else—the
eager spirit of a little child used to ponder on every
thought of original and unsectarian form which she gave
birth to in language; and these early reflections were
the basis of all future aspirations after the “ something
better than she had known ! ”
I was educated at home under a good but narrow¬
minded governess, and studied hard at all the usual
“ accomplishments.”
Allowed no companions, (for our mother disliked the
free and easy ways of modern youth), I consequently had
full opportunities for cultivating my innate desire for
sequestered meditation. The inner consciousness of being
often surrounded by a particular “ Presence,” as I called
it, grew with my growth. In my ignorance I knew not
what it was, but dared to venture to believe for myself,
that Invisible and Intelligent Witnesses were around us,
and I supposed they might be ethereal “ Angel
Guardians.” This I kept to myself, lest someone
might ridicule my “ hallucinations,” and thus deprive the
precious hope of its reality.
Thus, my childhood blossomed into maidenhood,—
still with the one passion haunting my heart—the seeking
to find the key to the spiritual secret of Life; what it is ?
and what its highest object ? What are we ? and what
really becomes of our conscious Being after death ?
&c., &c.
It was to this end that I begged to be allowed to search
and study all kinds of metaphysical, religious and philo¬
sophical works, and through these I waded as through a
winding stream, but I discovered that I was still as far
off as ever from touching the hey of my goal.
.... All this time I knew nothing of Spiritualistic
teachings. When my mother died I was abroad. Then,
came to me her visible “ Presence,” and, although quite
awake, yet I found myself by her side somehow, and in
a lovely garden, lighted neither by sun, nor moon, nor
stars : and the light was softly bright,—making the
foliage and flowers to shine like gems. I heard her tell
me, “ My child l they will tell you I am dead: But it is
not so; I thought I had died, but found myself gazing on
my own dead body, and still, that I was more alive than
ever! . . . . Tell everyone that there is no Death,—
only change.”
Imagine the effect of these words upon one who had so
long sought for an assurance —beyond that derived from
mere tradition,—of this all-satisfying fact!
And it was this incident that turned my attention to
Cahagnet’s works, and subsequently to hearken to the
trance messages given through Fletcher’s remarkable
mediumship thus you may perhaps be enabled
to comprehend easier, the real, unselfish motive for my
extreme eagerness at catching hold of the first examples
of practical 11 Spiritualistic” teachings presented to me.
Amid a thousand other misconceptions of my character
actions and motives, which have been industriously
spread abroad—is that of my having “ suddenly rushed
into ■Spiritualism,’ ”—“ caught” by a few spirit messages
and a few fawning promises of encouraging aid in my re¬
searches on the subject.
.... Personally I bear no resentful feeling against
the Fletchers, though they only know how deeply they
have sinned against her who desired only to have been
their benefactress. Juliet Heurtley.
THE DEMISE OF PROFESSOE ZOLLNER.
At the time of our going to press the sad
news has reached London of the departure
from this life of Herr Zollner, Professor of
Astronomy at Leipsic University, aged forty-
eight. By his fearlessness of popular pre¬
judices and the nobility with which he fought
for the cause of Spiritualism he has won un¬
dying fame, and he passes from our midst
honoured and respected by all who are com¬
petent to estimate his worth.
PROBABLE RETURN OF SLADE TO EUROPE.
Negotiations which have been carried on
for some months will probably result in a
visit of Dr. Slade and Mr. Simmons to Portu¬
gal within the next few weeks.
SPECULATIONS REGARDING MESMERISM,
AND AN EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH.
BY JOHN E. PURDON, M.B., SURGEON-MAJOR H.P., ARMY MEDICAL
DEPARTMENT.
It may be interesting to study the sphygmographic
tracings of one of those sensitive individuals who possess
what has been called “mesmeric power” for want of a
better name, and therefore I venture to submit to the
readers of Psyche a set of traces taken at the end of last
year with the view of practically testing the value of my
psycho-dynamical theory, in an instance in which I had
every reason to believe that I would find data confirma¬
tory of my views, judging from the history of the case,
as recorded by the subject himself.
The gentleman in question is a man of education and
high respectability, a member of one of the learned
societies, and deeply interested in the subject of mes¬
merism or animal magnetism, which, without being at
all an enthusiast, he considers has been unduly neglected
by the medical profession, a playful accusation first made
in a casual conversation on my introduction to him, but
which I have since attempted to rebut by pointing out
that where evidence, other than mere verbal assertion, of
the existence of the extraordinary, is available, members
IPS
O IT IE .
°f the medical profession are only too glad to accept the
challenge thrown down by those who are pleased to take
up the position of adversaries and accuse them of wilfully
shutting their eyes to the existence of the truth. On
a subsequent occasion my friend asserted that he was a
mesmerist and that he could influence certain people by
making passes over their limbs without contact, and he
went so far as to say that in a case which he brought to
my notice, where rapport had been established, he
was able to relieve pain and to influence from a distance,
the time at which such attempts were made, being pre¬
viously unknown to the person operated on. Accepting
his words as expressing matters of fact, and knowing
very well that as such experiences are common, I had no
right to throw doubts on the value of the judgment he
had arrived at after his repeated experience of his powers,
I asked him to let me apply the sphygmograph on two
separate occasions, first in the presence of the person
with whom his nervous system was so easily thrown into
rapport; and on the other occasion at a distance, and
under circumstances which did not, through association
or suggestion, tend to reproduce that state of nervous
disturbance which, I presume, is an antecedent condition
to the establishment of so-called mesmeric rapport with
more or less community of subjective impressions. ■
This gentleman is a fine, powerful, able young man,
twenty-five years of age, with broad shoulders, and
of a fair and florid complexion, showing the sanguine gouty
temperament. He has been healthy with the exception
of attacks of what he called muscular rheumatism, which
attacks he found to be inversely related to the expression
of mesmeric power. As this latter idea suggested a
generalisation I had arrived at from the study of my
hospital and other cases which presented, what appeared
to me at least, the evidence of a nervous system giving
out or receiving influence from another, I was the more
anxious to find if the blood current would indicate in his
case too, the same class of variability in the nervous
control of the system co-ordinated for the distribution
of energy, according to plan, throughout the body. I
found the same class of trace variability as that which
my best cases of nervous rapport, and convalescence
after rheumatic gouty attacks in nervous subjects, had
given me, and I accordingly felt justified in regarding
the functional nervous disturbance in the mesmerist I
■v?as studying, as a causal factor in the chain of events
which resulted in the decided influence produced in cases
in which he had operated.
After all, the mystery of such psycho-physical inter¬
actions may not be so inscrutable as not to be easily
nandled by the adoption of a well chosen hypothesis
under the guidance of analogy. We have to assume
first a departure from the normal physiological standard
in which the potential energy, introduced in the form of
food, and worked up by the organism into living matter
and thereby released from the rigid, formal, definition of
mere externality with its empirical invariability, is per¬
mitted to actualize itself otherwise than as ordinary
work, ordinary physiological function, or radiated heat,
in which cases only the routine of healthy activity is sup¬
posed to be maintained. But we assume second, that this
disturbance is so far conservative that when this ex¬
pression of actual energy is possible, the organism is
relieved from the consequences of its manifestation with¬
in the body, in which case it should be regarded as the
purely physical aspect of many diseases, the simplest of
which we may put down as hysteria and its relations
from the psychical aspect, and periodical or paroxysmal
fever, as indicative of palpable physical disturbance.
My limited experience goes to show that the class of
nervous sensitives of whom I speak, suffer more from ex¬
haustion than from actual organic disease when the
power of throwing off or externalising is not denied
them. The typical expression of such conservative
relief from the consequences of internal explosions is,
however, best identified in the study of haemorrhagic
fluxes not necessarily periodic in character. The
sphygmograph here affords valuable information.
That the determined expression of energy in the lump,
that is to say when it is not broken up within the body
so as to-result in disease or degeneration, is conservative,
is, I think, supported by the fact that the influence when
transmitted to another, may be of a strengthening and
adjusting character. Consequently in place of regarding
it as a radiant action exerted by one body upon another,
which can only introduce us to the conception of a sum
of inanimate forces, I prefer to look upon it, in the case
of mesmeric action, where the influence is not purely
subjective, as indicative of a flow of disembodied life-stuff,
which may or may not play a useful part, according as it
is or is not made use of by the body of another. The
analogy to transfusion of blood is here suggested; but
more than mere transfusion is suggested, blood being
outside, the limits of the individuality, which uses it as a
source of power. The functional activity, the design
plus the blood or its contained energy, is supposed to
pass over in my conception; and from the standpoint of
the external, the agent would be spoken of as potential,
or sum of forces in combination with substantial reality.
Efforts, though not generally conscious, which are abortive
as far as the economy of the individual is concerned,
(efforts being the aggregate of living forces having their
formal expression in Will, which are thus treated as the
correlative of potential, in the world of mind), are
supposed to lie at the back of so-called magnetic or
mesmeric expressions of energy, which, not yet dead or
dissipated, may be utilized when received by the body of
another, which can be thus, as it were, to some extent
driven by the first, the conjoint system, so far remaining
as it were a single living body, reducing the potential of
the living matter to its lowest vital terms ; normal heat
radiation being the final outcome where mechanical or
physiological work is not done.
I may be pardoned for making a digression when
offering a suggestion on the vexed question of the nature
of the organic language, operating in the intercommuni¬
cations between lower animals. I do not refer to those
visible external expressions of feeling and emotion, but
to those deeper physical bonds, which indicate the
existence of something analogous to purposive in¬
telligence and consciousness. I have been endeavouring
to account for various physiological anomalies in the
human species by the hypothesis of the complimentary
action of similar parts in different individuals, the initial
change due to the one being carried forward and com¬
pleted by the other, the conditions of organic identity,
permitting selective absorption of that physical tertium
quid which must be used as a link, whether it be sp oken
word, flashing signal, electric vibration, or that “ sensible
species ” which I hold to be no longer a worn-out
scholastic formula, (since it exactly covers our present
wants), but, so far as living beings are concerned, a very
definite and fruitful conception. In the lower animals
there may be easily supopsed to exist, naturally, that order
41
:f:s y a iet ie .
of physiological occurrence, which in the case of man,
we must, in general, regard as pathological, except in
rare instances where it seems to ,he the very essence of
a man’s nature, and the justification of his special claim
to consideration, his life work merging his individuality
in the race, and thereby absolving him from the im¬
putation of physical abnormality. The simplest proof of
the validity of my statement regarding the pathological
nature in man of that which in the lower animals may
be a natural mode of expression, I believe lies in the fact
that it cuts at the root of human freedom and free
action. The power in question may be used for good,
but it may also be used for evil.
There are certain lines of reasoning suggested by
chemico-algebraical speculations that can hardly be ab¬
solutely fruitless ill the future, and when taken in con¬
nection with the theory of the groupings of elemental
feeling into the things constructed for itself by a living
being and thrown out into a common form in the act and
fact of their recognition as objects, which would imply
that according to the completeness of the chemical pro¬
cess accompanying any effort, so would be the nature of
the system of continuity under which the external form,
and consequently its contents, would manifest them¬
selves.
We have proof positive in the-case of ourselves that
the functional outcome of the organ of mind is oc¬
casionally initiated in one brain and completed in or by
another; any ordinary clairvoyant or thought-reader
will prove that with a little care and patience. If then
the brain or other organ of mind can illustrate my pro¬
position, what inherent difficulty can we suppose the
other organs will offer—granting them proper represen¬
tatives ? If a nervous instrument be required, we have
it to our hand in the great sympathetic system of nerves
which is distributed all over the body. This it has been
ably argued is the instrument of the emotions, and this
which is the organic sovereign within the body, I have
good reason to believe holds its sway outside the limits
of the same where organic interactions obtain between
separate individuals, governing and regulating them.
Through its agency the intellectual part of animal
nature is able to bridge space and reconcile the funda¬
mental antithesis between thought and extension, so
that granting the existence of the necessary channels of
communication within the body, the establishment of an
organic language of a chemical nature is easily under¬
stood. The strongest argument in favour of this asser¬
tion is the fact of intercommunication between the
separate organs of the same body, where often infor¬
mation is supplied that would be regarded as super¬
natural by the uninitiated. Even if some difficulties of a
purely mechanical nature should offer themselves through
our ignorance of the details of action at a distance, we
must be content at first with the general principle, re¬
membering that force is still the same essentially whether
it show itself as stress between contiguous parts or at¬
traction across a void space, the biological difficulties
being no more radical than those in other departments
of natural science.
The third assumption involved in my hypothesis
amounts simply to the assertion of the fact that a body
weakly or peculiarly constructed does not continue to
maintain the integrity of the process of involution,
whereby that which is introduced into the organism
from without, has its potential energy manifested only
in accordance with ihe laws of a healthy everyday ex¬
perience, modifiable though they may ultimately be in
process of evolution, through which changed surroundings
exert a pressure which is responded to by a correspond¬
ing expression of vital energies. This assumption asserts
that without violation of established generalities there
may appear that which, though the terms and laws of
the ordinary may not seem to cover it, yet may be grasped
in a proper interpretation of natural operations through
the removal of formal limitation. It indirectly asserts
that that which is real and true for one is so for all; that
as all external nature is given us in terms of the stand¬
ing rules of our own organisms, any inscrutable change
in nature as perceived must have somewhere a con¬
structive as well as a percipient system correlative there¬
with ; and that consequently all individuals being
similarly related to nature as percipients, a change in
one carries with it a change in all. The only difference
between the manifestation of the extraordinary and that
of the ordinary by any given individual, consists in the
fact that in the former case the machinery is more con¬
cealed than in the latter, which distinction, however, is
more superficial than real, the event itself alone being
grten and not the causal determination.
The fourth and final assumption upon which my hypo¬
thesis for the theoretical explanation of mesmerism, &c.,
&c., &c., rests, is, that it is only through living matter
that the spirit manifests its latent potentialities ; that is
to say, that I can no more conceive the possibility of
such manifestation through fibrous tissue or bone, than I
can through the dry leg of a deal table : so that when
any object appears to be used as an instrument of ex¬
pression we must recognise it merely as symbolic of the
real change, for we must remember that such an instru¬
ment is simply an object, which apart from perception is
for us non-existent, but which when perceived has corres¬
ponding to it change in living matter, which under the
magic of the senses and the understanding is the essential
basis of the real in space, as perceived, so that it is in
the fundamental groupings and not in their translation
that the disturbing cause is to be sought, and where 'no
contradiction can be introduced by the commingling of
heterogeneous elements, for protoplasm is the objective
aspect of moving and advancing spiritual essence, whereas
dead or fixed matter is the objective crystallisation of the
same. Living matter being the only avenue through which
spirit can phenomenally exhibit its workings to conscious¬
ness, it is for us a gate to be jealously guarded so that
through the perfect harmony of our bodily parts our
individualities may be preserved.
New truth will be the outcome of psychological re¬
search, and even if matter of fact of the nature of foolish¬
ness be presented to the physicist, he can provisionally
reconcile all difficulties by a negative application of the
formula Natura sana in corpore sano; for, giving the
disturbed individual the credit of the limited disturbance
in external nature, he can investigate at his ease until he
is content to believe that that which was before an ap¬
parent contradiction in the order of nature, was only a
manifestation of a more general condition of vitality, or
a manifestation of vital activity under less restrained
methods of manifestation.
Animal magnetism, commonly called mesmerism, is a
legitimate subject for the investigation of physiologist or
physician, and in the hope of helping even a very little
in a great study I have offered these remarks, but with
diffidence and caution.
Figure 1 represents the first tracing taken from the
42
:ps*y chie .
right wrist of the mesmeric sensitive mentioned above,
the spring of the sphygmograph indicating a pressure of
three ounces. It will be seen that the character of the
latter part of the curve changes rather suddenly, the
Fig. 1.
dicrotic nature of the pulse becoming less marked. The
first part of the tracing shows the quick pulse and
marked impulse due to the short jerking contraction of
the ventricle with abrupt expansion of the ventricle. This
is a pulse I have seen in convalescence after simple con
tinued fever, and indicates weakness, with imperfect
control through the vagus or inhibitory nerve of the
heart. In the latter half of *the tracing the ventricular
expansion is fuller and steadier, but the pulse is de¬
cidedly that of the nervous subject. I have seen this
class of curve often in those who showed indications of
peculiar psychical powers and susceptibilities—such as
planchette writing and sympathetic interactions.
No. 2, taken immediately after No. 1, and with the
same pressure on the artery, shows the heart again in
an irritable jerking state, probably caused by the excite¬
ment antecedent to the effort to quicken the rate of the
Fig. 2.
pulse, under the action of the will, which my patient
undertook to accomplish, and which the sphygmograph
proved to be within his power, as the second half of the
tracing was not taken until after the effort was made ;
the vertical line showing where the clockwork of the
sphygmograph was stopped so as to compare the two in¬
dications. Here again it is the latter part of each curve
that has been curtailed, thus showing that the time of the
expansion of the ventricle had been shortened. It ap¬
pears to me that this result was brought about by the arrest
of the inhibitory power of the vagus nerve which regu¬
lates the rate of the diastolic change, thus giving the left
side of tbe heart time to fill completely before the sys¬
tolic movement, which is indicated by the first part of
the curve, takes place. The heart being released from
the control of its inhibitory nerve, would expand more
quickly under the influence of its own proper ganglia,
the concentration of voluntary (?) effort taking place
through the sympathetic system. It is as well to be
cautious in the use of the word “ voluntary,” since the
effect produced may have been the consequence of the
emotional accompaniments of the voluntary effort. But
it must be remembered also, that individuals have shown
themselves to be possessed of a voluntary power of
arresting the heart’s action, and also that the muscular
structure of the heart is similar to that of the voluntary
muscular system, that is to say, its fibres are of the
striped variety though said to be “ involuntary ” in
function, the nervous supply being from the sympathetic
system. We are not therefore warranted in denying the
statement that in this instance the heart was to some ex¬
tent under the control of the will.
No. 3, taken immediately after No. 2, and with the
same pressure of spring, 3 oz. troy, was traced while in
the kneeling position, and its indications are instructive.
It will be seen that in many respects it resembles the two
former, but it is to be understood that the rapid action
of the heart with the short expansion line, is not now
Fig. 3.
due to any voluntary or emotional excitement, but purely
to the reflex due to the pressure on the patella or knee¬
cap tendon which in some way, through the spinal cord,
throws the vagus out of control, and in this instance pro¬
duces the same effect exactly as if the patient were under
the influence of nitrite of amyl. In fact I have in my
collection an amyl tracing, taken in the horizontal position
from a man with a nervous system similar in many respects,
which is almost a facsimile of the one here presented.
This effect of the kneeling position in the case of nervous
sensitives, I discovered experimentally, my attention
having been called by a patient to the palpitation brought
on by kneeling, and it is valuable as throwing light upon
those cases in which the presence or absence of the so-
called “patella reflex ” is used as a diagnostic mark.
This discovery I regard as valuable in many ways; for
instance, it helps to show what may be a real physical
adjunct in the production of the ecstatic state in the case
of prayer, in those of a highly nervous temperament, as
in the instance of Saint Theresa, whose life history was
one series of extraordinary chapters, containing much
that is related to the marvellous and which has now
become the object of physical and psychological research.
Fig. 4 is a tracing taken from the left wrist at the
same sitting and with the same pressure of spring, the
adjustments having been carefully made so as to obtain
as exact a result as possible. The heart was then
Fig- 4.
steadier, though still quick. It will be seen that the
part of the curve containing the primary wavelets, differs
in form from the corresponding part of the right tracings.
The trace was taken in the sitting position.
Fig. 5, a right hand tracing, pressure 4oz., was taken
two days afterwards, when the subject had been sitting
Fig. 5.
for some time with the person from whom Fig. 6 was
taken, and who was of a temperament in many respects
similar to that I was studying. It appears highly pro¬
bable that there was set up a physical interaction between
the nerve centres in the case of these two persons, so
that the directing plan of blood distribution was more or
less related. It will be seen that in No. 5 tracing there
was considerable delay in the diastolic or expansion
43
movement of the heart, and that therefore the vagus
nerve was exerting its special influence in full force.
Fig. 6.
One of the beats shows a prolongation of the time of
diastole of the heart, this being often the case in subjects
with gouty tendency.
Fig. 7 gives a left trace, pressure 3^oz., taken on the
same occasion. The distinctive part of the curve differs
Fig. 7.
that the two sides of the central distributing apparatus
in the medulla oblongata were not identically deter¬
mined.
This difference of the two sides has been so very
frequently observed by me, that I am not prepared to
regard it as essentially indicative of mischief, but rather
of the manifestation of the mode of operation of a mechan¬
ism, the secrets of which may not be beyond the limits
of patient investigation. It is, however, a very common
accompaniment of the nervous temperament, and very
frequently met with in young soldiers.
Motion is the last word of physics, and the most
general notions lying at the basis of the symbolic expres¬
sion of its production, involve the idea of two sidedness,
more than that even, as in the case of waves of light of
the sum of instruments right-handed and left-handed in
character, the magnitude of these instruments being in
general unequal, but in certain limiting and indeterminate
cases equal. If, therefore, we start with the acknow¬
ledged fact that in the extraordinary manifestations of
energy by certain nervous subjects, there is simply a
more general expression of motion involved, it will be
necessary to postulate a symbolic machinery more general
in its character than that which functions in the mani¬
festation of the ordinary, and, as a natural consequence,
we must seek for something in physical correspondence
with the generalised conception.
SPRING BREEZES.
BY J. A. CAMPBELL, B.A.
“ Send forth thy breath, and they shall be made, and thou shalt
renew the face of the earth.’*'
Blithely blow thou beautiful breeze
Over the upland across the trees,
Blithely blow,
Blithely blow,
Angel of Life to the vale below.
By the poplar tall on the bare hill-side,
Whose root is rotten, whose life has died,
Sadly pass,
Sadly pass,,
No breath can quicken it now, alas 1
Around the copse where the birches pale
Lost half their leaves in the winter’s gale,
Gently tread,
Gently tread,
Revive the Living, remove the Dead.
Over the meadows, away, away,
Bid the waving grass with the sunbeams play,
Twist and twine,
Twist and twine,
Fit the lowly heart for its end divine.
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
We have been favoured by Professor Henry
Sidgwick, of Trinity College, Cambridge,
president of the Society for Psyhcical Re¬
search, with an early proof of the prospectus
of the Society, and the following particulars
are extracted from its contents :—
It has been widely felt that the present is
an opportune time for making an organised
and systematic attempt to investigate that
large group of debateable phenomena
designated by such terms as mesmeric,
psychical, and spiritualistic.
From the recorded testimony of many
competent witnesses, past and present, in¬
cluding observations recently made by
scientific men of eminence in various
countries, there appears to be, amidst much
illusion and deception, an important body
of remarkable phenomena, which are primd
facie inexplicable on any generally recognised
hypothesis, and which, if incontestably
established, would be of the highest possible
value.
The task of examining such residual phe¬
nomena has often been undertaken by in¬
dividual effort, but never hitherto by a
scientific society organised on a sufficiently
broad basis. As a preliminary step towards
this end, a Conference was held in London,
on January 6th, 1882, and a Society for
Psychical Research was projected. The
Society was definitely constituted on Feb¬
ruary 20th, 1882, and its Council, then ap¬
pointed, have sketched out a programme for
future work. The following subjects have
been entrusted to special Committees:—
1. An examination of the nature and extent of any
influence which may be exerted by one mind upon
another, apart from any generally recognised mode
of perception.
2. The study of hypnotism, and the forms of so-called
IP S 'ST O IE .
44
mesmeric trance, with its alleged insensibility .to
pain; clairvoyance and other allied phenomena.
3. A critical revision of Reichenbach’s researches with
certain organisations called “ sensitive,” and an
enquiry whether such organisations possess any
power of perception beyond a highly exalted sensi¬
bility of the recognised sensory organs.
4. A careful investigation of any reports, resting on
strong testimony, regarding apparitions at the
moment of death, or otherwise, or regarding dis¬
turbances in houses reputed to be haunted.
5. An enquiry into the various physical phenomena
commonly called Spiritualistic ; with an attempt
to discover their causes and general laws.
6. The collection and collation of existing materials
bearing on the history of these subjects.
The aim of the Society will be to approach
these various problems without prejudice or
prepossession of any kind, and in the same
spirit of exact and unimpassioned enquiry
which has enabled Science to solve so many
problems, once not less obscure nor less hotly
debated. The founders of this Society fully
recognise the exceptional difficulties which
surround this branch of research; but they
nevertheless hope that by patient and syste¬
matic effort some results of permanent value
may he attained.
The Society for Psychical Research is now
in a position to invite the adhesion of Mem¬
bers. It is desirable to quote here a pre¬
liminary Rote, which appears on the first
page of the Society’s Constitution.
Note.—To prevent misconception, it is here ex¬
pressly stated that Membership of this Society does
not imply the acceptance of any particular ex¬
planation of the phenomena investigated, nor any
belief as to the operation, in the physical world, of
forces other than those recognised by Physical
Science.
The Council desire to conduct their investi¬
gations as far as possible through private
channels; and they invite communications
from any person, whether intending to join
the Society or not, who may be disposed to
favour them with a record of experiences, or
with suggestions for enquiry or experiment.
Such communications will he treated, if
desired, as private and confidential.
Letters relating to particular classes of
phenomena should he addressed to the Hon.
Secs, of the respective Committees, as fol¬
lows :—
(1) Committee on Thought-reading; Hon. Sec., Pro¬
fessor W. F. Barrett, 18, Belgrave Square, Monks-
town, Dublin.
(2) Committee on Mesmerism; Hon. Sec., Dr. Wyld,
12, Great Cumberland Place, London, W.
(3) Committee on Reichenbach’s Experiments ; Hon.
Sec., Walter H. Coffin, Esq., Junior Atheneeum
Club, London, W.
(4) Committee on Apparitions, Haunted Houses, &c.;
Hon. Sec., Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., 31, Queen
Anne Street, London, W.
(5) Committee on Physical Phenomena; Hon. Sec.,
Dr. C. Lockhart Robertson, Hamam Chambers,
76, Jermyn Street, S.W.
(6) Literary Committee; Hon. Secs., Edmund Gurney,
Esq., 26, Montpelier Square, S.W.; Frederic W.
H. Myers, Esq., Leckhampton, Cambridge.
AN IMITATION OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
The various tricks described in the book
Confessions of a Medium (Grriffith and Farran)
would he unsuccessful and worthless among
competent observers. The accompanying
illustration, however, shows the possibility of a Vj
medium playing a guitar in the air while
both his hands are held, provided he has pre¬
viously managed to temporarily loosen one
of his hands for a few moments, to place his
tambourine ring, his pencil, and his guitar in
the positions represented in the cut.
 1 i 
Cobbespondents constantly write to us complaining what a
loss the stoppage of the weekly publication of The Spiritualist has
been to Spiritualism.
On the 20th of April, a money testimonial was presented at the
Neumeyer Hall, Bloomsbury, London, to Mr. Hudson, spirit pho¬
tographer. There was an overflowingly large attendance.
The Royal Academy has resolved to purchase out of the
pictures in their exhibition now open, the “Psyche” for 1,200
guineas. It has also purchased three other pictures, but at
lower prices.
On the 27th of April, Mr. James Coates, of 62, Sauchiehall
Street, Glasgow, who has done so much to promote a knowledge
of psychology in Scotland and the North of England, was married
to Miss Jessie Simpson, of Greta Bank, Crosshill.
Mbs. Kate Fox Jenoken requests us to announce that she “ is
visiting at No. 2, Scarsdale Villas, Kensington, and will be most
happy to receive friends and inquirers at eight o’clock on Monday
evenings, and privately by appointment.”
mmmm'Wm -E
‘ Price 5s. Crown 8vo. Cloth.- Bed Edges.
| PSYCHIC PACTS.
The Best Book to place in Public Libraries and in th# ■
hands ot' Disbelievers in Spiriiualisin: -
: c 0 X T E T 8 . .
Elementary Information for Inquirers into Spirit,
ualisirt. By the Editor.
Elementary Psychical Phenomena Experimentally
Tested.' By llohert Hare, M.D., Professor of Chemistry
at the University of Pennsylvania.
; Esperiments in Psychical Phenomena. .By William
:Crookes,E.E.S. |
Phenomena I have seen. By Cromwell Fleetwood
Vapiey,'i,R.S.,C.E.
E§po^t oii Spiritualism, By a Committee'of the Dia«.
lectiCal,Society of London.
Psycho?raphy. By Edward W. Cox^Serjeant.at.Eaw.
. Extraordinary Psychical Phenomena in Germany.
By Eicherick Miner, Professor of Physical Astronomy '
at thc pniversity ofLoipsio.
Captain E. E. Burton’s Experiences.
Experiences at a Seance. By Alfred Bussell Wal- j
lace ';'v''-V-CV'i 'r
Beichenbach’s Magnetic Flames and other Pheno.
niena.; By The I.ord Linsay. -
Powerful Physical Manifestations.. By Dr. A. But.
lerof, Professor of GKemistryln the TTniversity of St.
Petersburg.
' Testimony of “The Times” Newspaper.
Testimony of “ The Daily Telegraph.”
Slate-Writing Exporiments. . By Epes Sargent.
" Spifitudlism and'Insanity. By Eugene CroWell*
MvD. ;
Linguistic Phenomena. By J- W*. Edmonds, Judge
of, the Supreme Court, New York.
A Severe Surgical Operation under Mesmeric Influ.
ence. By Colonel Sir;William Topham. 1
Signor Damiani’s Challenge.
Manifestations xtithessed by the Emperor of Ger.
many.
Manifestations witnessed by the Emperor of Bussia.
Psvche Office, 38, Museum Street, London.
■:. Price 4s., of 4s. 4d. post free
HEALING BY LAYING ON OF HANDS,
f f By James Mack,
contents.
THAT. 1 .—Introductory—AutoMographicai Sketch.
CifAP. If.—'J he'Orgaiiic Qualifications of a Healer.
CHAP. 111.—Medical Theories and the True Heal-
ing Principle.
CHAP- IV.—On Healers. Ancient and Modern,
■ CHAP. V —I he' Author’s -Method, of Work, with
Illusirative Cases.,-
, CHAP. VI.—Animal. Magnetism as a Curative
Agent. .
CHAP. VII.— On Healing at a Distance.
appendices.
A. —Healing in Public.
B. —Press Notices.
0.—Testimonials from Patients.
Psyche Office, 38, Museum Street, Bloomsbury,
Loudon.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
NE of the most compact, and well-
considered masses of evidence, that Spiiituahsm
is true, is No, 59 of The Spiritualist, price 4d,, 4^d.
post 'free. It is a number compiled "Specially ioi-ihe
information of enquirers,'and will give them a Very
large amount of intormation at a cheap rate. This
number of The Spiniualint is of special value for sale'
at the doors public meetings connected with Spirit¬
ualism... ;
Psyche Office, 38, Museum Street, Loudon,
Price 2d ., or 2$d. post free.
qpHE FOUNDING OF THE
J BRITISH ASSOCI ATION for the Advancement
of Science. A history of the first meeting in York
in 1831, and of other matters of interest connected
therewith. By Williarn II. JI arfison, author of “ The
Lazy Lays,” “ Mother Shiiiton luve^tigaied,” and
other works. Psyche Office, SB, Museum Street,
London, W.C,
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS. NATUIiE
AND VARIETIES.—-A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who bold; or are about to
hold, spiyit circles in their own htiriies, . Pubji.-bod at
Psyche Office, 38, MuScura-street, London, W.C.
Price Id.; Post free for lid; or six cp_ies post free
for6d.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges, Postfree, ji
:. “PIFTS IN TOE VEIL.” .
A Collcc ioi of choice poem< and pri-e cssays gHron
through mediumship, alsobf articles afid.-poems writ-
tehby Spifitualistsf': A useful bobk to place in’ tho .
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
ate; unacquainted;with S’^rttualism; 11 contains much
about the; religious aspepts of Spiritualism, givpn
through the writing mediumship of “M.A. {(ixon),”
j aiul is one of the most refined andhlegant works ever
printed in *onnection with the movement.
CONTENTS. . ^ ;■ 1
IntroductionTho Pbilosophy.of Inspiration.
/• I. —O ! lieautiful Whi;e Mother Death.” . Given
through the trauce-mediuihship of Cora L. V. Tappan-
tiichtuond.
. II.—The, Apparition of Sengireef., . By Sophie
Aksakof. ... . " - - .
III. —^’The Translation of Shelley to the Hieher Life.
Given through the trauce-mediumship o?-T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan•Biehmoud.
VI. —Angel-Guarded. v
VII. —An Alleged I’ostr Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the' writings were ^produced. The
MagnificentEgotist, Sap sea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Oloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep;-
Critical Comments. ■
VIII. —The Spider of tho Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. —
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through tho trance-
mediumship of Lizzie jDoten. /
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.” :
XL—Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XTf; —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Speetres of,Wolves, Dogs,, and^
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.. - -;
XIV. —To You who Loved Me, By Plorenee Marryat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
• XVI.rgTruth. Given through the mediumship of
“M.AivGxon.” , .
XVII.—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
■ XVII l.-r-llaunting Spirits^ By Baroness Adolnaa
Von Vay ^Countess vfumibrand).
XIX. —'Dash ion able Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Baihham, By Lucia C.
Stone. ’ v"'-
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Stqry of a Haunted Housed By E. J.
Theobald.-
XXIII.—‘ ‘ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice DaVies, D.D. . < ;
XXIV. r—The Ends, Aims, and Uses- of Modern
Spiritualism., By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —Do Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and- Modern Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital, .
XXVII.—Die Sehnsuoht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller. .
XXVIII.—Tho Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Ghven through . the mediumship i>f
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev.,C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Erancis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent. '
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By tho
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D. .
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A, Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through themedium-
ghtp of '• M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice 'Worthington
(Etmesfallen).
- XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
•XXXVIII,—Spiritual. ManifestationS. among the
Eakirs in India. 1 By Dr, Maximilian Per-ty., Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Bernetrapslated fromEsycAie
Studies (Leipzig) by'Emily Kislingbury. -
XXXIX.—The -Poetry of Science. -By W. H, Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Corso-icnce. By
Alex-. Calder.
XLI.— Dirge. By Mrs. Er ie Baker, |
XLII. —Epigrams. By Gerald Ma,ssey. -
XLIII.—Some of the difficulties vf'the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By; Lisette Makdougal-l
Gregory. .
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
E.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald'A1 asseyi
‘ The Spiritualist Newspaper Blanch Office', 3f,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
BEYUE SPIlilTE, Journal d’etudes
> psychologiques. fomle par Allen Kardee, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every Month. Price 1. franc,
Published by the Societe Anonymeyb, Rue Neuye des
Petits Champs, Paris. Post Office orders payable to
Leymarie.
■ Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edees. -•, Price 5s;
8FIE1T IDENTITY, g
■by m.a. (oxox.)
Contains records of spirituatijnanifestatiotts,tending,
to prove that: sdnierof the. Saints who ,c6mihunicat'a:
; through mediums, are! the persons: they say; they are.
The book contains information:—
/-. Qn the power of Spirits to gain access to sources of
infownatioc, ' ‘ , •
On some phases of Mediumship hearing on Spirit-
Idemity, -
Cases of Spirit-Identity..
1. Man crushed by a steam-roller,
2. Abraham Florentine.
i 3. Cbai lotte Buckw'orth.
Evidence from spirit photography, v
Oh soifte difficulties of inquir ers into Spiritualism.
Spirit-Identity—Evidence of Dr. Stanhope Speer,
.. /' Psyche Office, ■ t0 o-V -tSS
' , ' .1 : v. - 38, Museum Street, I,oiidon, W.C. :1
■;' ! ANGKLIC REVELATIONS. I; ■
who wish to have the 2nd and' 3rd vols, can have, them
by .sending 3/6 in stumps for a <x>$y of Philosophy of
Spirits-, which Will he forwarded wiih the other two
: volumes gratis. Applicatioii t j Wi-li.iam - OxrjEY,
65. Bury New Road, .Higher Broughton, Manchester^
l| ’ Price 5s. 6d. >
Inspirational Poetry,
“POEMS PROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface, describing the spiritual state, of trance
daring which some of the poems were given.' .
. CONTENTS. ?9§: f ! i-
■ ■ !'>; 1'ahtI.. '!.Vm';;-
I.—The Prayer'oh the Sorrowing—II. The Song
Truth—III. The EmbarkHtioft^—IV,'Kepler’s Vision-—
V. Love aijd Latin—1VI. The Song of the North—VII.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The l’arting of Sigurd
and G urda—IX. The-Meeiing of sigurd and Gurda. .
| '/I'A-'jKAfepi'I. f-'
i}X. The Spirit Child-XI Reconciliation—XTT.
Hope lor the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensaiion—XIV,
The Eagle of Freedom.—XV: Mistress Glenaro—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVH: Birdie’s Spirit ' Song”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—NlX. • ’ I still Dive XX.
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For o’ that”—XXI11.
Words of Cheer—XXlV. ResUfrexi—XXV. j The
( ; Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Goffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti-
mcre—XXIX. The! Mysteries of- Godliness-'-XXX.
Farewell to'! Earth. ; PsYeuE-Office, 38j Museum
Street, London, W.O. y '
BBITXSH NATIONAL ASSOCIA¬
TION OF SPJ RITUALIS fS, 38, Great-Russell
> Street, Bloomsbury, Lohdoh, W.C. The largest and,
most influential membership flf any sphrjtttalist
organisation. The Reading Room and Library open,
daily from 2 to 9 p.m., Saturdays 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.
The Secretary, or his assistant, receive .visitors and
- answer inquiries/ Further particularson application.
—Thomas Blyton, Resident Secretary.
r\0CULTI8TS AND MYSTICS can,
Vl/ upoh approval, join aSodictv.e^tablisheif.orthe
purpose of Investigating and Practising the aneient
Occult Sciences. Send name, - address,' phot '.graph,
ftstroipgical chart, and c-irricul’tm ci/oe to Althota*,
care of John Wilsonj 12, King William Sheet, Char,
ing Cross, London, W.C. '
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. .
OTHER- VV ORLD 0RDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE,
: Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women:; and that there is not any one, however per¬
verse or insignifli ant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity,. As to the question of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains, an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
ecerlasting punishmemt of sinners, he answers Yes; hut
if asked whether he. believes iu everlasting sinners, he
answers^ No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the Constant assumption that the eyeriksting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with theeveriastiiig' existence'
of $inners,"\ Sin or transgression has been, is, and evC r
will be eternally -punished ; /torment and misery ai e
everlastingly in separable, from WTOng-doirig ; a 1
precisely because inseparable,' the ' wrong-doer
must) sooneh or later, cease from" wrong-doing, la
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility pf everlasting sinners.
E. W. Au.hn, 11, Are MariaQane, E.C.
;i?s'5r oihiie] .
ALL AK K AE B E C’S WORKS.
ALLAN KARDEC {Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
T H E MED HI MB’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
'.HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubnbb akd Co., London.
Just Published. . . J ( 1
SPIRIT-ID $ N T I T Y.
. 1 ■ . - ■ By M.A. (Oxon).”
i ; Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
, ^; Pstchk Office, 38, Musefiin-street," London, W.G.,
^CHINA, G-LASS AND EARTH ENWARI^r
Co-operative Stores and all other Stores fully equalled, if not superseded, for China, Glass,
and Earthenware. Quality and quantity unrivalled for the smallest margin of profit. On
the prepayment system.
J. M. DALE,
50, Cyawfofd-street, Bryanston-square, London, W.C.
Y E G L I 0 & Co.’s K E S T A LT RANT,
314 and 316, EUSTON UOAI', I.'.IXInlX. ;
Near 'J'ottenhaiti Cou/t JioucL ancl ihe Gower Street, Portland Road Easton Railway Stations.
One of the best Restaurants in the Neighbourhoodj With pure Foreign Wines at very
moderate prices, i Englisli, French, Gertnan ahd Italian spoken.,
English, -Frefich and Foreign Cookery. A good Billiard Room.
• JUST PUBLISHED.—QUITE NEW.
MOTHER SHIPTON I NYE8TIGATED.
This heat little Booklet about
TILE CELEBEATED YOIDTSHIEE SIBYL
Contaihs theTesiilts of a critical examination of the Mother Shiptoa Literature in ; the
British Museum Library. It includes a verbatim copy of the oldest record in the Museum
about Mother Shipton’s piophecies, and gives reasons for supposing that
ME. PUNCH OE FLEET STEEET
Is a survival Of the Y orkshi re prophetess. \ ^
' Illustrated f Avith Two Engravings, one.re presen ting Mother Sbiptou warning
Cardinal Wolsey at Cawood ; the other showing the resemblance between Mother Shiptpn
and Punch. ®
.PRICE, ONE SHILLINGr.
; ‘ J \ Psychk Office, 38, Museum.Street, London, W.C.
This day is Published
A curious and interesting Book
T H E C O N FE S S I O N| 0 F A M E D I UM.
Crown 8vo., illustrated, price 3s. 6d.
? This remarkable Beck, which for obvious reasons hears no writer's name, will, it is an¬
ticipated, create no small t ■‘nsatipn., It was written, by one who states only what he knows,
and the truth of the narfatL ' is vouched for.
Gbiefitii & Faeea. West Corner, St. Paul’s Churchyard, London.
Just Published,
THE EIRST VOL TIME OF
8 PIRIT S REPO RE 0 UR EYES.
JSyVII.UAlf II. HAREISOK.
This book, shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism s produced
oy the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of wbllTattestfe.d facts, proving.Jthat the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. 'The work, from beginning to;end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man By strictly Scientific methods,
giying'well-prbVed facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Liorary Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free.. Cloth edition os. 6d., post free.
PsychS Office, 38, Museum-street,-London, W.G.
SFIBIT DALI ST IC SOCIETIES.
SUBDAY EVHXISTO MEBriNGkl Itf LOXDON ABE
■:, HELD AT— AV':
The Ij-ulbr"ko Hall, dotting Hill, >Y. (Hon. Sec,',
Aft. W. Hurling). » , \v
>The‘Qne'6enHan, ?o, Great Quebec Street,Marylebone.
(Hon,.Sec., Mr. J. M. Hale), /
-The Giiswell Hall, 2S0, GCswell Road. (Hon, Sec.,
Mr. WYTowu.-). *
The flRcltncy Spiritualista’ Cfiristian Yrission. Mpet-
inirs for Spirnualists only. (Hon. Sec., Mr. 0. R.
. William^.
.Pbovixcial societies, secbetaby’s ttames
./ AND BEsIDENCES—,.
Afh'ngton. Mr. W. 'VVirilow, Asbington Colliery,
, bfoithuinberlanib
Birmingham. Mr. R. Groom, 200, St. Yincent, Lady-
wood.
Cardiff. Mr.-H. Adam.s 3, Angel Street.
.Coventry.. Mr. H. Spittlc, 69, P’ar Gosford Street.
Darlington, Mr.; A. C, Clark, President. Hodge’s
- Rduins, Norlhgate, Darlington.
EelUng. Mr. A. Pickering, High‘Street.
Gateshead. Mr. J. M. Routledge, 10, Devonshire
Street, ' , >
Glasgow.Mr, J. McG. Munro, S3, Daisy Street,
GovanHiH.
. Howilen-le-Wear. 0. G. Oyston, Hunwick, Willing-
' ton, Durham.
Bfull. J. B. Bland, 22, Prospect Street.
Pjeicester. - Mr. R. Wiehtnian, 561 Cranbourne Street.
Liverpool; Mr, John Ainsworth, 21, Longfellow Street,
Lodge Lane.11
•Macclesfield. Mr. S. Hayes, 12, Bond Street West,
Manchester, W. T, Braham, 302, Stretford Road.
Manchester and Salford. Mr, J. Campion, 33 Down.
‘ ing street, -
Newcastle.. Mr. W. G. Robson, 8, Brandling)Plhce.
Nottijigham. Mr. Yates, 39, Lower Talbot Street.
North Seaton. Mr. Wm, Scott, Stable Row, North
SeatoU Colliery. ■
North Durham. 'W. Latimer, Hint’s Terrace, Spring-
well, Gateshead.
Oldham. Mr, James Murray, 7, Eden Street,
' Eiankhill.
Ptyinouth. Rev. G. Ware, 12, Stanley Terrace.lAffiett
Hoad.
CON T ENTS.
PAGE
Illustration.—Results of one of Professor Zollner’s r
Experiments A.       36
Sphygropgraphy      ..... 29
The-Chronicle-         A   30
Medittmship in India ..    .'. 30
A Feature of Materialism...,,... !.......  30
Mesmerism at Folkestone  31
LizzieHannon  .'  31
Spiritual Realities and Materialistip Shadows 31
A-Russian Ghost Story   31
A Discovery in India   31
The Crime of “ QVaksalveri ” under the Laws
of Denmark        ... 32
. A Test Spirit Photograph,     33
A Rule of the Theosophieal Society   34
Opinions of Fletcher’s Father 34
A Monument to the Baron du Potet   34
- Spiritualism in America................l..35
«r Fisher Doherty and the'EvU One .35
Experiments by Professor Zollner 37
Extracts from a Letter by Mrs. Heurtley ..... ...... 88
The Demise of Professor Zollncr     39
Probable Return hi Slade-tb,;Burope. i............. ... 39
Speculations'regarding Mesmerism, and an Expen- '
'mental Research. By John E, Purdon, M.B. ... 39
Poetry -—Spring -'Breezes.' By - J. A. Campbell, B.A. 43
Society for Psychical Research 43
An Imitation of Spiritual Phenomena ................. 44
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Aximiows, at
the Museum Printing Works, 3j, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. W.
Allek, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C
