Begietered as a NEwePArrs.
SK® Otf P M Y d ft 0 ] < 0 IC 1< ^di^jsfcsi.
Ifcfasppr wlrix®, foxf^ SpritwaBsm m $>xmt §niam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : xx, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and y, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstras.se. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S,: ‘‘Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 7, Monroe-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 315. (Yol. XIII.—No. 10.) LONDON: FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(ETontentg*
The Cure of Diseases near Sacred Tombs:—The Earthly
Career and Death of Benedict Joseph Labre—The Ex¬
traordinary Things which Happened either Before or
Immediately After the Death of the Servant of God—
The Verbal Process Begun on Easter Sunday, Five
Days After the Death of the Servant of God, and Im¬
mediately Before the Burial of his Body—An Account
of the Miracles said to have been "Wrought by the
Almighty, at the Intercession of His Faithful Servant,
Benedict Joseph Labre    109
A Horrible Result of Obsession or of Insanity  114
Self-Registering Apparatus for "Weighing Mediums during
Manifestations. (Illustrated.}    .... ... 115
A Talk about Ecclesiasticism and Spiritualism....  116
Correspondence:—A Plea for the Wonderful—Spiritualism
in Hackney—Spiritual Phenomena in the Home
Circle—Heuling Mediumship—Dr. Monck—The Inter¬
linked Rings—^Spiritualism in Manchester and Oldham 117
The British Association at Dublin:—Religious Persecu¬
tion in Ireland—Moral Lapses under the Influence of
Pressure—Animal Psychology—The Influence of Scien¬
tific Revelations upon Different Orders of Mind 118
Canon Farrar on the Doctrine of Everlasting Perdition ... 120
Answers to Correspondents...   120
Paragraphs:—Accident to Mrs. Bellew, 118 ; The City of
Florence, 119 ; Mysteries of the Mind, 119 ; Anti-
Vivisection, 120; The Animal and Vegetable King¬
doms    120
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY W.O.
Entrance in "Woburn Street.
CALENDAR FOR SEPTEMBER.
Tuesday, 3rd.—Seance Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 3th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.80 p.m.
Tuesday, \3th.—Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
“ “ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, XZth.—Experimental Research Committee.
Friday, 30th.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
“ “ Experimental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m,
Saturday, XXth.—Farewell Address by Mr. J. W, Colville,
at 3.30 p m.
Wednesday, 35th.—House and Offices Committee, at 5 p.m.
“ “ Soiree Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, 31th.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
“ “ Experimental Research Committee, at
 6.30 p.m. 
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, LOTTGHBOROUGH-aOAD-NORTH, BRIXTON.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership. &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstei n (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess oi
Caithness His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein): Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Suilivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the " Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. O.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. Wilham Oxley; Miss Kisling.
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles !(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson ,'M. D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street Shanghai: Messrs: Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Beligio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street London, W.O.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
MR. and MISS DIETZ having concluded
their series of recitations at Langham Hall (” One of
the most successful series ever known in London”), are now
making Engagements for the Provinces, and will visit—the
West of England, during the first week in October; Scotland,
during November; the Midland Counties, early in December.
Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route. For par¬
ticulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, London,
S.W. Mr. Dietz is open to deliver an original lecture on
“ American Humour,” illustrated by characteristic renderings
of the examples selected from different authors.  
BIRMINGHAM.
THE BIBLE AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A LECTURE will be delivered in the Tempe¬
rance Hall, Temple-street, Birmingham, in reply to the
three Lectures recently delivered on the above subject by Mr.
G. St. Clair, on Monday, September 9th, 1878, by Charles J.
Sneath. The Chair will be taken by John P. Turner, Esq., at
Eight o’clock precisely. Tickets—Side Galleries, 1 s.; Floor,
6d.; Great Gallery, 3d. May be obtained from Messrs. Rogers
and Priestley, Music Warehouse, Colmore-row ; Mr. Charles
Lowe, Bookseller, Broad-street corner ; Mr. Aaron Franklin,
31, Suffolk-street; Mr. W. Chaplin, 88, Parade; Mr. T.Harris,
165, Deritend.  
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. II. July. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS:—-
I.—The Two Schools of Thought. By St. George Stock.
II.—James Hinton. By William White;
III. —Clairvoyance and Psychography. By Epes Sargent.
IV. —The Abate of San Gandolfo. By J. C. Earle.
V.—Remarkable Psychological Experiences. By A. E.
Newton.
VI.—^Psychology of the Bible. By J. W. Farquhar.
VII.—Pilgrimages in France. II.—Issoudun. By Rev. H.
N. Grimley.
VIII.—Thirtieth Anniversary of Modem Spiritualism. By
Thomas Shorter.
Leaves from My Life—An Innocent Sinner—Buddhism—
Miss Martineau ~ Defended—More Glimpses of the World
Unseen — Concerning Everlasting Punishment — Possible
Planetary Influences—An Intelligent Tree—Psychography—
The Truthseeker— Views of our Heavenly Home —The
Master’s Field—Marguerite Marie Alacoque.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
No. 3 for September. Now ready. Price Twopence.
SPIRITUAL NOTES.
CONTENTS:—Dr. Davies and the Hock;
Modem Demonology, Part 2, by the Rev. Maurice
Davies, D.D.; Notes by the Way, by J. J. Morse ; Obsequies of
Miss R. W. Pickering, by E. W. Wallis; Literary Notices—
Geo. Barlow’s Through Death to Life, and Jas. Bonwick’s
Egyptian Belief and Modern Thought; Proceedings of
Societies; Correspondence—Dr. Maurice Davies on De¬
monology; Dr. Slade in Germany; “Notes;” Societies’ and
Lecturers’ Arrangements for September; Spiritual Lyrics—
“ To Death; ’’ Marriage; Answers to Correspondents; Para¬
graphs.
E. W. Allen, u, Aye Matua lane, London, E.C.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Me. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Bemers-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4 ,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7. Closed on Saturdays.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1). Secretary, James
Billington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.,
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner <fc Co., London.
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT. MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces
Everything of the best quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & ' Co.
Show Rooms :—3, Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c.
post free, seven stamps.
BIREBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.Ci
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued. .
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal oj Cutaneous Medicine
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
Mesmerism and electro biology.
Complete Practical Instructions, containing full and
minute direct'ons and explanations for performing all the
marvellous and extraordinary experiments of Mesmerism and
Electro Biology. Private instructions persona’ly or postalf
For terms and testimonials, adder ss Professor Valter, Olare-
mc nt Villa, 51, Belgravc-road, Birmingham.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. 6, 1878,
S?
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Ca'-der, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vlce-PregldenU.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1 Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Cerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Eitz-Gerald, Desmond <?•> M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Biixton,
S.W.
Gregory, Mrs. MakdoncaH,21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honvwood. Mrs., 32, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
' Massey, C. C , Barrister-at-Law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple*
London, E.C.
"Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F , Lanorley House, Grove-lane, Denmark-hill.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill. 1
Blnney, F A.. 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester
Bonwick, .T., F.R.G.S., Yale of Health, Hampstead.
Chapman, John, 10. Dunkeld-street. Liverpool.
Coffin, W, H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Blati-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-squaro, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lvnwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
F. llis, Mrs., 39, Tufnell-park, Holloway.
Eno, J. C-, Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Ftt.z-Gerald. Mrs. D. G.. 6. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinuing, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S E
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Harrison, W. H., 38, Great Russell-street.
Hayle, Thos.. M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20. Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson. Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street. Leeds.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles. Barb, Lampdrt-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon, S.W.
Joy, Algernon, M l C.E.. Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., ?, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Malthy, Mrs., 61, Oower-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. 14, Wilton-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road, Dalston.
Morse, J J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stairton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 6, Cowper-street, New Leeds, Leeds.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W, 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C„ IS, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Piokersgill, W. C., 3. Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian. 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Stra ' bridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcllffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock, st. George. M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30. Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M„ 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. 1’, Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M.J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Malda-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Ilensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M. A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman. Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal), H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
. Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
if. W. Gray, Esq, G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
BUSS Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg. Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
camp General de S'.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneherg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme, de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York. U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell. La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq , Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann,Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuvo des Petits Champs, Palais-Royal,
Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2.983, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq.,M D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Kreuz
Kirche, par Neuvied, Prusse Rhenance.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.,
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuil Chinnery, Esq , 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de TEurope,
Paris.
Rev, Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Kassompierre. 285, ChausseeSt.Pierre,Etterbeck,Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 187, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelies.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte Le de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W'.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hiU,
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Epr-jes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgra*ve-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Halloek, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 4Srd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Francos,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-iane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad’Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea, per annum.
THE HOLBORN RESTAURANT,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
~THE TRIUMPH 51? LOYE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
'! Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet, .
The only way that true love may be found, .
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.O. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Works by the Countess op Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS,
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price I5s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner Life; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN.
With a Prefa.ce describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. L«ve and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glen are.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv, Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life:—XXI. Love.—XXII. “For a’ that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer XXIV. Resurrexi XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &e., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Bought on, St. George’s-road.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61,; LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At homo daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
AIR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
LONDON.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds qf Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
ID W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
1J& engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefleld-road, Kings-
land, N.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
9 is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W
IVTISS MAN CELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
-IvJL and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment.
IV/I RS. WOODFORDE, Developing andHeal-
JJv-JL ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
mHE CELEBRATED VOCALIST AND
ORATOR, MRS.M.G. PARKER, of Dublin, St. Cloud
Hotel, Broadway, and Forty-second-street, New York, will
accept engagements to lecture through the States and give
musical entertainments on her way to Texas.—See press
notices.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American
Healing Clairvoyante. No. 2, Vernon place, Blooms ■
bury-square, London. Office hours, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private
sittings by appointment.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE-
vy ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
C1URATIVE MESMERISM AND CLAIR-
t VOYANCE.—Professor Adolphe Didier (33 years estab¬
lished) attends Patients and may he consulted at his residence
from 2 to 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington,
Consultations by letter.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Makshall & Co.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “Heaven Opened,’’ being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psyeho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 3 st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C,
Ko. 315.“”VojLUjvie Thirteen; Number Tej^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6th, 1878.
THE CURE OF DISEASES NEAR SACRED TOMBS.
THE EARTHLY CAREER AND DEATH OF BENEDICT JOSEPH LABRE.
That inveterate and long-standing diseases have at times
been suddenly cured near sacred tombs, springs, and relics,
is a well-established fact, whatever may be the explanation.
In some cases spirit power may be efficaciously present in
places hallowed by sincere prayer; in others, the belief of
the patient that he is certain to be cured may exercise some
influence over his own nervous system which brings about
the result; and in others it may be that the will of the
devotees present exercises some influence over the sufferers.
It is well known that debased and criminal spirits usually
produce the strong objective phenomena witnessed in haunted
houses, the scenes of their misdeeds; so one would expect
that, in the case of good men, their spirits could manifest
for beneficent purposes in their former homes and near the
places where their bodies are buried, for prolonged contact
with particular material surroundings during life, gives
power to the spirit after the death of the body to draw near
to those surroundings rather than to others. The material
objects are charged with some influence, an influence felt
by certain clairvoyants and sensitives, who, consequently,
are sometimes able, upon pressing the handwriting or
pocket-handkerchief of an individual to their foreheads, to
tell his character, and to sometimes make known some of
the events of his past life.
In one of the cases about to be quoted, it is difficult to
form any speculation as to the principle on which a printed
picture of the departed saint effected a cure, there being no
evidence that the said picture was ever materially en rapport
with him. Perhaps it aided the sufferer to fix her mind more
concentratedly upon him, and this gave the spirit more
power to draw near to her. If so, here is a clue to a theory
to prove that there is some use in the pictures and images
of saintly persons.
Benedict Joseph Labre, to whom we are about to call
attention, died but about one hundred years ago—namely,
in 1783. An account of the miraculous cures at his tomb
was printed directly afterwards in France, and but two
years afterwards (1785) in Dublin. Thus all the details
about to be given were printed and published while the
events were fresh in the memory of living persons, and were
open to criticism and to correction.
Joseph Labre was a conventional saint; he led a saintly
life according to the conventional ideas held by his Church
as to what a saintly life should be, although those outside the
pale would think it an evil thing for the world if everybody
imitated Joseph Labre’s example. He dressed himself in
the worst clothes he could get, lived upon alms; whenever
two samples of mouldy crusts or other bad food were offered
to him, he always selected the nastiest, and he was content
with a dinner off a cabbage stalk picked out of a dunghill.
He did nothing useful to mankind during his life, beyond
giving to the poor any surplus of the dubious food previously
accepted by himself; he passed long hours daily in prayer, until
large swellings came upon both his knees; once he was
so long at his devotions that Mr. Zitli had to “ jogv him to
discover whether he was dead or alive. If anybody struck
or kicked him, he resented it not, but patiently admitted
that he deserved it—that he was altogether, from head to
foot, unutterably vile. This perfectly sincere and well-
meaning man, who, in these degenerate times, would not be
welcomed in society, at last died in the odour of sanctity, with
his body covered with sores and ulcers. Afterwards scores
of people were undoubtedly healed of their diseases at his
tomb, so that the absence of any benefit conferred upon his
fellow-creatures by him during his career in the body appears
to have been compensated by deeds done in the world beyond
the grave, perhaps in atonement for a misspent life.
J | Joseph Labre was born in the parish of S. Sulpice
11| d’Amette, in the diocese of Boulogne, France, March 26th,
i j 1748 ; he passed to the higher life April 16th, 1783, and
| | his body was buried in the Church of S. Mary di Monti,
111 Home. The following particulars are quoted from a book
| i which has the following title-page “ The Life of the
I | venerable Benedict Joseph Labre, who died at Rome, in the
| | odour of sanctity, on the sixteenth of April, 1783. Trans-
111 lated from the French by the Reverend Mr. James Barnard,
j I Ex-president of the English College at Lisbon, and Vicar-
|) | general of the London District. Together with an Appendix,
| I giving an account of several Miracles, said to have been
II j wrought by his Intercession, soon after his Death. Justum
III deduxit Dominus per vias rectas, et ostendit illi regnum Dei,
111 et dedit illi scientiam Sanctorum, honestavit ilium in laboribus,
]f et complevit labor es illius. Sap. x. 10. Dublin: Printed by
||| P. Wogan, at Doctor Hay’s Head, No. 23, Old Bridge,
i 11 opposite Usher’s Quay. Mdcclxxxv.”
i > i THE EXTRAORDINARY THINGS WHICH HAPPENED EITHER BEFORE OR IMME-
I ) DIATELY AFTER THE DEATH OF THE SERVANT OF GOD.
I It ordinarily happens that all that relates to this world is
I over with a man when he is once laid in the grave. That is
I the fatal period both of his fame and of his hopes. But on
j the contrary the memory of the saints is immortal. It is
| when they are arrived at their tomb that their glory com-
| mences; and the happy succession of ages produces no other
I j effect with regard to them but that of increasing their fame,
j 11 This is one of the means by which the divine oracles are
111 fulfilled. He who has renounced everything in this world in
i i order to carry the cross after Jesus Christ, sometimes receives
I j I even in this life an hundredfold reward for all that he had
| | renounced. We have seen that Benedict had renounced
; | everything in order to bury himself in a life of poverty,
| I humility, and obscurity; and it seems that God has now
| | thought proper to make the honours which will be rendered
| l to his memory bear a proportion to the humiliations which
i j he practised in his life.
I | Fifteen days before the death of Benedict, a nun who is
| j remarkable for her piety, and who at the times when the
j servant of God made his pilgrimages to Loretto, had some
I conversations with him upon subjects of piety, was informed
j by God that he would shortly crop a beautiful flower in the
garden of M. Paul Mancini. By this garden she understood
the Hospital of the Poor, of which he has the care and ad¬
ministration. The letter which she sent to that reverend
ecclesiastic was sent before any one could suspect that the
death of this poor servant of God was so near. At the time
of his death the same nun wrote again, and acquainted him
(| that the flower which she had mentioned before was Bene-
(| diet Joseph Labre, whom the Lord had then transplanted
II into the happy gardens of the heavenly Jerusalem.
| | At the same time God gave a similar notice of his death
! I at Loretto. Benedict, during the days which he remained at
J |; Loretto in his annual pilgrimages to that place, was always
I j | received into the house of Mr. and Mrs. Sori, who had pre-
III vailed on him to accept of a little apartment. We will
j \ | therefore give their depositions word for word, as they are
> j | contained in an authentic Act drawn up by a notary to serve
111 in the process of his canonisation. “ In the latter days of
111 the last Lent (say they, that is, Mr. and Mrs. Sori) we were
H I conversing about Benedict Joseph, imagining that he would
1 I soon come to Loretto. Our son, whose name is Joseph, and
f | is only five years and four months old, then said, ‘ Benedict
| | will not come, Benedict is dead. ’ And every time that we
I ! mentioned our expectations of seeing Benedict Joseph Labre,
ij | he always said the same things, ‘ Benedict will not come at
Ij | all, Benedict is dead.’ One day we asked our son how he
I ! came to know that Benedict would not come ? To which he
II i answered: * My heart tells me so.’ And the same question
no
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 6, 1878.
being frequently proposed to him, always received the same j
answer, i My heart tells me so.’ ”
Mrs. Sori, in her deposition, says : a On Maundy-Thurs- j
day, in this same year, I said these very words, ‘ This is the |
day that Benedict is to come; I must get his little apart- j
ment ready for him and my son Joseph, who heard me say I
those words, immediately replied : * I have already told you
that Benedict will not come at all. Benedict is gone to j
heaven.’ ”
What happened in Rome at the time of the death of this
servant of God is by no means less surprising. God, who
is sometimes pleased to make infants the publishers of His
wonders and of the glory of His name, seems to have ordained
that they should be his first heralds to announce the glory of
his servant. Scarce had this poor follower of Jesus Christ
breathed out his last, but, all at once, the children of the
houses that were near that of Mr. Zaccarelli filled the whole
street with their noise, crying out with one accord, “ The
saint is dead 1” “ The saint is dead !” And on the following
morning the same exclamations and the same words were
repeated both in the same street, and in the square or broad
place before the Church of S. Mary di Monti.
But presently after they were not only young children who
published the sanctity of Benedict, but the people, and all
Rome joined their voices, and repeated the same words, “ A
saint is dead!”
Great numbers of persons who have been eminent for their
holiness and famous for their miracles have ended the days
of their mortal life in this great city; but the death of none
of them ever excited so rapid and lively an emotion in the
minds of the people as the death of this poor beggar. This j
excited a kind of universal commotion. For in the streets !
hardly anything could be heard but these few words, There
is a saint dead in Rome. Which is the place wher.e the saint i
died ?”
The people ran in such multitudes to the house of Mr.
Zaccarelli that he was forced to permit them to enter ; but j
a guard of Corsican soldiers was called to keep off the crowd j
and preserve good order.
The inhabitants of this quarter, being desirous of securing j
to themselves the possession of his precious remains, begged j
that he might be buried in the Church of S. Mary di Monti—
for this was the church which, during his life, Benedict had I
most frequented—and it may with truth be said that from |
the time that he fixed his residence in Rome, he had passed !
the greater part of his life in it. But the rector of S. |
Saviour’s parish insisted on having it buried in his church.
This opposition which they met with made them set their
heads to work, and they soon discovered that Benedict was
an inhabitant, not of the parish of S. Saviour, but of S.
Martin di Monti. To the rector therefore of this parish they i
petitioned for this favour, which he readily granted. And the ]
rector of the church of S. Mary di Monti being assured of
the necessary license, concurred with the wishes of his zealous !
parishioners, and preparedffor the funeral obsequies of the J
servant of God, which were performed at the expense of his i
friend Mr. Zaccarelli. J
The people now impatiently expecting the removal of his J
body, the crowd kept continually increasing, the guard was i
doubled, and the soldiers who accompanied the corpse kept |
the people in good order, and at the same time composed a ]
kind of funeral procession. i
From the moment that the corpse went out of the house |
till the end of the burial service, a fight was seen which is J
very difficult to be described. Some joined their voices with i
the singers of the church, and published the praises of the !
servant of God; others in a loud voice extolled the happi- 1
ness of his dying such a precious death. These shed tears !
of devotion in abundance ; and the others tears of compunc- []
tion. The interior grace of God at the same time mixed j1
itself in some manner with the first impressions which this •;!
spectacle made upon their senses. Many great sinners per- j]
ceived themselves agitated and troubled in mind at the j1
consideration of their past lives, and immediately formed re- j!
solutions of amendment, to which may God give His bless- r
ing, and render efficacious.
These were the happy first fruits of souls converted at the |
tomb, and by the intercession of this servant of God, who j
for their conversion had offered up so many prayers, so many ^
sighs, so many tears, so many labours, and so many
austerities.
The solemnity of Maundy-Thursday does not permit that
any should be buried at Rome on that day ; for which reason
the corpse of the servant of God was deposited in a place in
! the church which joins to the sacristy.
There was no person in the neighbourhood of Mr. Zacca¬
relli who knew that I was Benedict’s confessor, so that it
was not till the morning after his death that Mr. Mancini
informed them of it; and this was the reason why I knew
! nothing of what had happened till Friday morning, when
| Mr. Mancini sent me a note to acquaint me with it.
After the funeral service was over, the devotion and con-
! course of people augmented in a very extraordinary degree.
| The cardinal-vicar gave leave to suspend the laying his body
i in the ground for the space of four days, and at the same
i time proper precautions were taken to keep good order, and
| prevent any tumult.
The concourse of people during these four days instead of
diminishing seemed to increase every hour. People of all ages,
states, and conditions, ran, pressed into the crowd, and were
confounded with each other. Persons of the first rank catched
the eager desires of the people, and augmented it by their
J example. Some were seen using their utmost endeavours to
j press through the crowd and get up to the servant of God,
I and others kneeling down at his feet—some with an extra-
| ordinary devotion touching his body with their rosaries,
j others kissing his hands and bathing them with their tears—
! and everyone showing their surprise and admiration when,
j touching sometimes his hands, sometimes his feet, or any
| other parts of his flesh, they found them equally soft, flexible,
I and in a state perfectly sound and uncorrupted.
On Easter Sunday in the afternoon, which was the time
| appointed for interring the body of Benedict, the cardinal-
vicar sent to the Church of S. Mary di Monti, Mr. Coselli,
one of the canons, and his attorney-general, as also an
I apostolical notary and a surgeon. They brought with them
} a great number of persons to be witnesses of their proceedings,
j who by their quality, age, and condition were thoroughly
j capable of attesting and giving authenticity to the acts which
I they should have to draw up, in consequence of the most
| rigorous examination. And by the particular account of
their proceedings, every one may see with what wisdom and
I prudence they executed their commission.
It appears evident both from the informations which they
took, and from their own observations, and experiments many
times repeated both by them and by the witnesses, that the body
| did not exhale the least disagreeable smell or show any sign of
| putrefaction; but, on the contrary, that the flesh was perfectly
! flexible and elastic in the same manner as is the flesh of a
] living man who is in a state of good health.
We have judged it proper here to relate several other par-
j ticularities relative to the flexibility and incorrnption of the
body of Benedict, though without pretending to have them
| considered as absolutely miraculous, unless they should here-
| after acquire that certainty and authority, in consequence of
I a more thorough and perfect investigation and examination
| of the facts.
We have before mentioned the two tumours or swellings
I which covered both the knees of the servant of God; as
J likewise the cause from whence those swellings arose, and
! the excruciating pains which he must necessarily have
| suffered in consequence of these swellings.
God put it into their minds immediately to examine these
| swellings in the knees of Benedict. They found the two
| swellings were like two globes of a considerable size, but the
| flesh was so flexible and elastic that when any one had
| pressed them with his finger, he saw them immediately
| return to their original form of themselves, and that by the
! mere action of the muscles. This phenomenon was in every
I respect like that which is observed in pressing the flesh of a
| living man. A great number of persons were convinced of
! this by trying the experiment. And I myself have my own
| experience for my voucher, because I many times tried the
| experiment, and always with equal success.
Another thing which we have to speak of, and which seems
| no less extraordinary, has been attested by many persons,
| and particularly by F. Francis Bagnagatti, one of the
1 members of the congregation of pious labourers. On Thurs-
Sept. 6, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
day at night the body of Benedict was ail over in a sweat,
and that in such abundance that his face appeared to be
bathed and covered with it. Brother Bagnagatti, who related
to me this fact, wiped the face of Benedict with the capuche
with which his head was covered. The capuche was
thoroughly wetted with this sweat. This capuche I carefully
keep in my possession, and it retains very plainly the stains
made in it by the quantity of sweat which it had imbibed,
and with which it was entirely penetrated. The same
phenomenon happened again on Saturday, and has been
certified by many eye-witnesses, who more fully to convince
themselves applied their hands to his face.
But now returning again to the subject of this narration,
we shall give an account of a third extraordinary thing
which is still more astonishing than the two former. And
to observe the most exact fidelity, we will do little more
than transcribe the verbal process drawn up by the commis¬
sary of the cardinal-vicar at the very place, and at the very
moment when it happened, in the presence of a great number
of persons who were eye-witnesses of the fact.
After they had, by many observations and repeated experi¬
ments, examined and proved the state of incorruption and
flexibility of the limbs and flesh of the servant of God, they
thought of changing his clothes, and putting on him a white
habit, which is the peculiar dress of the members of the
Society of S. Mary ad Nives, to which society they had
associated him after his death. And the body having till
this time lain stretched out upon two benches, which being
placed close to each other formed a kind of table, in order to
put on this habit, it was necessary to lift him up, and place
him in a sitting posture—F. Francis Bagnagatti holding
him in this position by the shoulders. Benedict stretched
out his left hand, and laid hold on the board of one of the
benches, as if he wanted to support his body from falling
after its being in a natural and proper attitude for this
purpose. The body was surrounded on all sides by a great
number of spectators. I myself was standing at his feet,
and then had my eyes turned towards a table where a person
was transcribing a note or memorial in Latin, which after¬
wards was to be enclosed in a case of lead, and placed in the
coffin of Benedict.
At the noise which I heard on all sides, and the signs of
astonishment which I perceived in every countenance, I
turned my face towards Benedict, and was no less surprised
than the other spectators when I observed the attitude of his
body at that time.
Some of the witnesses being desirous of being fully j
assured whether what had happened, and which appeared |
marvellous, might not proceed from a natural cause, or be
the effect of mere chance, they desired that the body should j j
be inclined a little more to the left side. This experiment j |
was tried accordingly. If the hand and fingers had been no j
more than simply applied to the bench; if the muscles had j !
not been in a state of tension and contraction; then when | |
the body was more inclined to the left side, the hand would j i
naturally follow the motion and inclination of the body, and |
by its own weight loosen and fall lower than the bench; but j
instead of this, which was natural and necessary, the hand |
remained fixed to the board of the bench at the same place i
till such time as the bystanders loosened it.
They did not confine themselves to this first experiment: j
they repeated it over again and again, and as often as it was j
repeated the same phenomenon appeared. For one of the |
assistants having required that the hand should be loosened !
from the bench, and the body placed again in its former |
attitude—after that, in consequence of this requisition, it was I
again in a sitting posture ; and the eyes of all the spectators j \
were fixed upon the body of Benedict in expectation of what | ( j
might happen, and I myself was particularly attentive to j j
that same hand—we saw the body naturally supporting j
itself, in the same manner as we had seen it support itself i j
before, and in like manner the hand holding fast by andsqueez- j j J
ing the bench, in such manner that the thumb and palm of i j
the hand pressed upon the top of the bench, and the fingers | I
were clenched underneath it, the body performing and re- I j
presenting the action and attitude of a living man. i |
Some time after this they loosed his hand, and were con- 11 i
vinced of the reality of the flexibility of his fingers, and of j I
the extension and play of the muscles.
I add that through the whole length of the hand, of the
I left arm, and even to the middle of the breast on the same
side, the same contractions, and the same play were observed
in all the muscles, as might have been observed in any living
| person, who wanting to sustain the weight of his body in the
| same attitude, should seize hold on anything that was in his
| way to serve him as a prop.
By a prudent precaution, the notary at this part of his
i verbal process set down the names and titles of the witnesses,
I as likewise the names and titles, or conditions of the princi-
j pal persons who were spectators. The verbal process, formed
! in the very presence of the witnesses, was immediately com¬
mitted to the press, and upwards of eight thousand copies
taken off.
Some time after, wlien they had satisfied the pious curiosity
of those wfio were present, they took off his cloths with all
suitable decency, and after clothing him in a white habit,
and wrapping him up in a proper and decent sheet, he was
laid in a wooden coffin. Many persons who were then with-
j out, and who had climbed up to a sufficient height to see
between the bars what was done in the chapel, begged with
great earnestness that they would lift up that part of the
sheet which covered tne head of the servant of God, and
afford them the consolation of taking a farewell look at his
face.
This request was granted, and at the same time they
placed in the foot of the coffin, near the feet, the leaden case
which contained the memorandum or eulogium abovemen-
tioned, and to which was affixed the seal of the cardinal-
vicar.
The body of Benedict was afterwards carried into the
church, and put under ground, near the high altar, on the
epistle side. They chose this place in the church by the
consent and leave of the cardinal-vicar.
The putting the body under ground did not in the least
diminish the concourse of people. They came with the same
eagerness to render to him at his tomb the same respect and
veneration which they had rendered to his body whilst it
continued to be publicly exposed to the veneration of the
faithful.
On Easter Monday an immense multitude of people as¬
sembled from every quarter of Rome, at the report of the
extraordinary favours which God, to honour his servant, had
bestowed on a great number of people who had implored his
intercession. The number of the soldiers that were ap¬
pointed to keep good order was increased, but all to no
purpose. The unavoidable tumult occasioned by such a
great concourse of people obliged them to give over cele¬
brating the masses and divine offices; and also laid them
under a necessity of removing the blessed sacrament from
the high altar to an inner chapel.
Some days after, when it was found that the most prudent
precautions were insufficient to restrain the multitude, an
order came from the superiors to shut up the church, and an
express prohibition against opening it for any person whom¬
soever, and soldiers were placed continually on the outside
to guard the door ; this new precaution was judged necessary
to prevent the heat of an indiscreet zeal.
The order of the superiors was obeyed, but the church did
not cease continually both by day and by night to be sur¬
rounded by a great multitude of persons, some of whom
prayed on their knees in the adjacent streets, and those who
could approach nearer knelt down at the foot of the walls.
The church continued shut for two whole days, and it was
thought they might now take off the prohibition without
danger of any inconveniences resulting therefrom. But as soon
as ever the rumour was spread of the church being opened
again, crowds of people began to reassemble, so that it was
necessary to form an enclosure round the tomb, and keep off
the people by a balustrade, round which a sufficient number
of soldiers were placed to prevent any disturbance. This
guard was judged necessary, and continued by the tomb of
the servant of God for the space of two months.
The news of his death, and the report of the circum¬
stances that accompanied it, and of the wonders which God
had wrought at his tomb, was spread through every province
with an incredible rapidity.
The devotion of foreigners now began to unite with that
of the inhabitants of Rome, and now a new concourse of
112
Sept. 6, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
people arrived from all parts, and some from the most 11
distant provinces. Some came to petition for temporal or !
spiritual favours through the - intercession of this poor |;
follower of Jesus Christ, others to pay their veneration at j.
his tomb, or to return thanks to God for miraculous cures j!
wrought upon them, or for some interior or exterior favours, j ]
which they declared they had received from God by his | <
merits and intercession. | J
If we consider well the extraordinary facts which preceded j j
and accompanied these miraculous cures, which fame has | <
published throughout all parts ; if we consider the cures in j t
themselves, their number, their different kinds, the variety j
and great distance of the places where they were performed,
and all other circumstances which prove their truth and their
authenticity, how incredulous soever a man may be, he will
find it extremely difficult to resist that conviction which
naturally follows from the multitude, the authority and com¬
bination of their proofs.
It is true that, till the Church has pronounced its decision,
we ought to suspend our judgment concerning them. I
Prudence ought to curb the haste of an indiscreet zeal. And I
the proofs not having yet been examined and approved by j
lawful authority, is a sufficient reason for us not to publish I
them as incontestable miracles. But this, at least we may !
affirm, and that without any fear of being charged with pre- |
cipitation and rashness, that the truth of a great number of j
extraordinary cures is founded upon the strongest presump- j
tion imaginable. ’ j
For of what kind of cures do we now speak ? Of cures !
which are as astonishing by their multitude as by their |
variety : of cures of disorders spread through all the members j
of the human body, and all the organs of the senses, and,
in many instances, of long infirmities, of disorders j
of ten, twenty, and thirty years’ continuance, and to ! <
which some had been subject even from their very j j
birth. We here speak of disorders whose existence j j
was unquestionable, and cure instantaneous. We have ! <
thought proper here to show our reader how long a list of ! j
them might be made out if we were to give a particular ]
account of each of them. For we see that cancers have been <
cured, fistulas, epilepsies, gangrenes, mortifications, rickets,
schirrus, weens, imposthumes, dropsies, apoplexies, ulcers,
consumptions, asthmas, scurvies, blindness, deafness, j
fractures, and broken limbs.
We speak moreover of wonderful cures, published not only j
at Rome, but in a multitude of places far distant both from !
this capital, and from each other—that is to say, at Naples, j
Genoa, Malta, Milan, Bergame, Capua, Peruggia, Boulognia,
in the county of Yenaissin, in France, and in a great j
number of other places, which would be too tedious now to j
enumerate. *
We speak, thirdly, with regard to many of them, that !
they are cures, the accounts of which are accompanied with j
certificates of physicians and other intelligent persons, who
attest both the former naturally incurable state of the
patient, and the sudden transition from that state to a state !
of health, as likewise the permanency of the cure; and some j
of which accounts are accompanied with the testimony of j
the persons themselves on whom those miraculous cures |
were wrought, and who attributed the recovery of their j
health to the intercession of Benedict, whom they had in¬
voked to intercede with God in their behalf.
In a word, we here speak of cures that have been per¬
formed, not successively in a long tract of time, but such as |
have been performed in a very short space, and so speedily
that it cannot by any means be said that the enthusiasm of !
one city has been produced by the enthusiasm of the other
places where these extraordinary facts have happened.
Accounts of cures were published at Rome in the very j
week in which the servant of God departed out of this life, j
* The different places where, since the month of August last past, accounts of miraculous |
cures have been published, without mentioning Borne, are at Urbino, Perugia, Fermo, j
Mocerato, Becanato, Loretto, Oamerino, Oesenne, Orviette, Ancona, Toligno, Velletrie I
Bietta, Monteflascoune, Monte Sancto, Narni, Civita Vecchia, Q-ubbio. Tolentino, Fabriano j
Urbanio, Montalboddo, Heltanno, Oascia, Capoue, Oaprarola, Neozanno, in the dioeess of j
Nep, Massa-Lombarda; in the diocess of Imola, Stipes ; in the diocess of Bieti, Selci, I
Ivlonte-Lupore ; in the diocess of Loretto, Monte-Bolondo, Monte-Perzio, Monte-Tanico, !
Vitralla; in the diocess of Viterbo, Anguillara ; 'diocess of Sutri, Sitema; diocess of i
Velletri, Oapo-di-Monte ; diocess of Monte Siascone. And out of the Ecclesiastical State, at i
Geneva, Malta Milan, Bergame, Naples; and in these different States, Barrs, Capua, Aquila, j
Mont Boyal, Amatrice, Avezzanno, Petreto, Sperlongay, Boccadi, Bottes, la Sante Marie, I
Capistrollo. Arce, in France, Bolene, in the county of Venaissin, at many places in Artois ; j
at Aix, in Provence, Lille, Oavaillon, and many other places.
Iu all the places where similar cures have been performed,
many of them have been performed immediately after the
news arrived of what had been done at Rome,
i For the first three months after the death of Benedict
I scarce a week has passed in which there has not been at
Rome some verbal processes of miraculous cures, or in which
some people, on whom miraculous cures have been performed,
have not arrived to publish at the tomb of this poor servant
of Jesus Christ, both his fame and their own gratitude to
God for the benefits bestowed on them by his intercession.
By a singular disposition of divine Providence, the par¬
ticulars of his life, from his infancy to his death, have been
known, published, and proved in so ready a manner, and at
the same time with such exactness, that this itself may
justly be looked upon as a very extraordinary thing. From
hence they passed on from admiration at the wonders at¬
tributed to his intercession, to admiration of his virtues, and
these two causes united, confirmed and more and more con-
• tributed to extend the reputation of his sanctity, which
immediately was spread throughout all Europe with an
incredible rapidity.
As God was pleased to make the glory of Benedict shine
| every day by new favours, the cardinal-vicar thought it a
| duty incumbent on him to give his orders to commence the
preliminary proceedings, which always serve as an introduc¬
tion to the process of beatification and canonisation of saints,
and therefore he published his orders to begin the solemn
| formalities prescribed by the Popes Urban the Eighth and
Innocent the Ninth.
The Archbishop of Neocesarea was delegated in the month
I of May, 1783, to receive the juridical informations relative
to those miraculous cures, and examine the witnesses who
should appear for this purpose, and who were to declare upon
oath the truth of the facts which they asserted.
The Rev. F. Palma, Rector of the Church of Mary di
Monti, where Benedict was buried, was nominated to do the
] business of solicitor in the cause. The Canon Coselli,
| Attorney-General of the Vicariate of Rome, was appointed to
| do the business of proctor, and Mr. Cicconi that of secretary
| to the commission.
The information taken at Loretto, by authority of the
| Holy See, and those taken in France, where the servant of
God was born, by the Bishop of Boulogne, have been already
| remitted to, and received by the congregation of rites; and
| the process is now carrying on with the utmost diligence and
success.
As obedient children of the Church, we ought to wait its
decision with respect. Everything concurs to afford us hopes
that these words of Solomon will be fully verified in the
person of this poor follower of Jesus Christ: There is a
withered man that wanteth help, is very weak and full of
| poverty. Yet the eye of God hath looked upon him for good,
and hath raised him up from his low condition and hath
exalted his head: and many have wondered at him, and have
! glorified God.—Ecclus. xi. 12, 13.
j THE VERBAL PROCESS BEGUN ON EASTER SUNDAY, FIVE DAYS AFTER THE
DEATH OF THE SERVANT OF GOD, AND IMMEDIATELY BEFORE THE
BURIAL OF HIS BODY.
At the request of Mr. Cajetan Palma, superior of the
congregation called by the name of pious labourers, and rector
of the Church of S. Mary di Monti at Rome, I, the under-
I signed Notary Public, accompanying Mr. Luke Anthony
| Coselli, Canon, Attorney General, and Secretary of the
Court of the Vicariate of Rome, went about four o’clock in
j the afternoom to the said Church of S. Mary di Monti, where
! being arrived, and having with great difficulty entered into
| it by the little side door, on account of a great multitude of
| people crowding on all sides, I was conducted into a passage
| adjoining to the sacristy, and in the middle of which I found
! a human corpse laid out upon benches, and clothed with a
j white robe conformable to the custom of the members of
the venerable confraternity of St. Mary ad Nives, girded
| with a cord proper to this habit, having his hands placed in
| the form of a cross upon his breast, and not exhaling any
smell, either pleasant or disagreeable.
Then, the canon, Mr. Coselli, acting in virtue of the
authority granted to him by his eminence the Cardinal Mark
| Anthony Colonna, Vicar of Rome, ordered, that to avoid the
i
Sept. 6, 1878,
113
THE SPIEITUALIST.
noise inseparable from the presence of a multitude of people,
the body should be conveyed into the sacristy, contiguous to
the said passage, which was immediately executed by the
help of the soldiers.
The door of the sacristy being afterward shut, they pro¬
ceeded to identify the body, in the presence of several
witnesses, viz., Mr. Cajetan Palma, Mr. Biagio Picillo, the
Fathers Michael Triscitto, Francis Bagnagatti, and Camillus
Simeoni (all of them religious of the said congregation of
Pious Labourers), Mr. Joseph Marconi, M. Hannibal Albani,
the most illustrious count, Mr. James Piccini, Mr. Paul
Mancini, Mr. Francis Zaccarelli, and Mr. Peter Sentoli, all
of whom, after having seen and attentively viewed the said
corpse, affirmed upon oath that they knew it to be the
corpse of the servant of God, Benedict Joseph Labre, whom
they all knew perfectly well while he was living, and whose
soul they now piously believe was received into the mansions
of eternal rest, on Wednesday, the sixteenth day of April of
the present year, which was the day of his death, and which
happened in the first hour after sunset, in the house of Mr.
Zaccarelli, which is near to the aforesaid church of St. Mary
di Monti. All which they affirm to be true and according
to their perfect knowledge, they having many times spoken
to, and familiarly conversed with, the said Benedict Joseph
Labre during his lifetime. To which Mr. Marconi added
that he had heard his sacramental confessions for a con¬
siderable space of time. And Mr. Mancini added that he
had for a long time given him a lodging at night, in the
hospitum destined for the poor.
The proving the identity of the body being finished, and
performed in such a manner as to render it impossible here¬
after to call it in question, Mr. Coselli considering that the
sacristy was filled with a great multitude of people, ordered
the body to be wrapped up in a sheet and carried into a
private chapel near the said sacristy, where, being brought
by the help of the soldiers, who cleared the way, the body
was laid down at full length upon two benches, which had
been previously prepared for that purpose, and which, by
being placed close to each other, formed a kind of table.
The body was then measured by a joiner, who found it to be
six palms five inches in length. After which Mr. Joseph
Chigi, a surgeon, officially appointed for this purpose, after
many trials and experiments made by him, found that the
body was soft, flexible, and elastic in all its parts, and had
not the least sign of corruption, which was also attested by
many other persons who were present, and who convinced
themselves of the truth of this fact by their own experiments.
After they had stripped the corpse of its garments with
all proper decency, when they came to change his shirt, in
order to do this, it was necessary to raise up his body, which
was done by the undermentioned Michael Triscitto, Francis
Bagnagatti, and Camillus Simeoni, who placed the body of
the deceased in such manner that the lower part of his body
remained extended upon the two united benches, and the
upper part of his body was raised upright, so that he was
then placed in a sitting posture; at which time it was re¬
marked that while F. Bagnagatti was holding the corpse by
the shoulder, the body of the deceased seemed to lay hold
on the board of the bench, and in a kind of a natural
manner to support its own weight.
Those who were present having taken notice of this
phenomenon, were desirous of trying whether this might
not have happened by chance, for which purpose they in¬
clined the body a little more to the left side; the hand,
nevertheless, continued to hold itself fast to the bench till
such time as it was loosened from it by one of the bystanders.
The hand being thus detached and removed, the body was
in like manner inclined a little towards the right, in order
to place it again in a sitting position, when they saw that it
a second time laid hold on the edge of the bench, so that it
seemed to support itself in the same manner as it had done
before, that is to say, having the fingers clenched under the
bench, and the thumb and palm of the hand resting upon
the top of the bench, and by this means taking, in every
respect, the attitude in which a living man would place
himself.
Some time after, they loosened and lifted up the hand,
and found that the fingers were flexible, as has been
mentioned above.
This phenomenon was taken notice of by every one who
was present; among whom were Mr. Palma, the rector, the
brothers Michael Triscitto, Francis Bagnagatti, Camillus
Simeoni, as likewise Mr. Joseph Noel Dulpino, of the Order
of St. Vincent of Paul, Mr. Fidelis Relagliati, Counsellor
at Law, Mr. Marconi, Mr. Mancini, Mr. Mark Anthony
Colonna, Mr. Michael Angelus Bove, Mr. Peter Paul de
Lunel de la Rovere, Mr. Matthew Angeletti, and several
others.
They then clothed the corpse with a new habit, according
to the manner of the brothers of the afore-mentioned society
of S/ Mary ad Nives, and likewise girded it according to
the custom of the said brotherhood, with a cord proper to
this habit. And then the body being wrapped in a sheet
was laid at length in a coffin made of chestnut-wood, which
had been prepared for this purpose, and which was eight
palms and eleven inches in length, two palms and five
inches in breadth towards the head, one palm and six inches
high towards the head ; and at the feet its breadth was one
palm two inches and a half, and one palm and two inches
in height.
At his feet was placed a leaden case, tied securely all
round with a green silk riband, sealed with red sealing wax,
with the seal of his eminence the Cardinal-Vicar. This box
contained a memorandum in form of a eulogium wr itten in
Latin upon parchment, which is subscribed both by Mr.
Coselli and by myself; and is couched in these words :—
{C In the year of our Lord 1873, being in the ninth year
of the Pontificate of our holy Father Pope Pius VI.,
Benedict Joseph, son of John Baptist Labre, and of Anna
Barbara Grandsire, born in the parish of IS. Sulpice d’Amette,
in the diocess of Boulogne, in France, on the 26th of March,
IT'IS, after having spent his youth in the constant observance
of a very good conduct, under the instruction and direction
of his uncle by the father’s side, who was then rector of the
parish of Erin in the same diocess; being desirous of
making a progress in the practice of Christian virtues, and
of embracing an austere and penitent kind of life, entered
into the Abbey of Sept-Fonts of the strictest observance of
the Order of the Cistercians, and was admitted to the
exercises of the noviciate on the 28th of October, 1769.
But sinking under the austerities which he practised in this
monastery, a sickness, which he patiently endured for the
space of two months, obliged him on the 2nd of June to
quit the religious habit, which he had worn with edification
for the space of eight months.
“ After his departure from the Abbey, he undertook divers
pilgrimages. His devotion induced him particularly to visit
the Church of Loretto, and the tombs of the holy martyrs
S. Peter and S. Paul. After many journeys of piety, he
fixed his residence at Rome, from whence he did not depart,
but only to make every year a pilgrimage to Loretto.
tl In every place he gave great examples of Christian
virtues, of evangelical poverty, which he carried to the highest
degree of perfection, living only on alms which were volun¬
tarily offered to him, without asking; receiving only in
small quantities what was offered to him, and distributing to
other poor people part of what was given to him; he was a
man of profound humility, entertaining a sovereign contempt
both for the world and for himself; performing rigorous
penitential austerities, and spending all his time, from the
morning till sunset, in the churches of this city, where he
lived in the exercise of continual prayer. He made himself
famous by the practice of all the other virtues, was esteemed
and beloved by all, although his garments and outward ap¬
pearance were neglected and forbidding. A distinguishing
character of his virtue was an entire disregard and forgetful¬
ness of himself that he might make the love and service of
God his only occupation.
“On the 16th of April, 1783, after having prayed for a
very long time, according to his custom, he fell down through
weakness at going out of the Church of S. Mary di Monti.
In consequence of a friendly offer which was made to him,
and which was accepted, he was carried to the house of a
reputable man, who lives at a little distance from the said
church.
“ His strength gradually decreasing, the sacrament of
extreme unction was administered to him, and being properly
assisted by the priests, in the very moment while those who
114
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 6,1878.
were present were praying for him, he calmly resigned his |
soul into the hands of his Creator, in the first hour after
sunset of the same day on wh^ch he fell sick. !
“ On the morning following, his body was conveyed with I
all suitable decency into the said church, and a great con¬
course of people were present at his dirge, which was I
performed at the expense of certain pious persons, who took j
that charitable office upon themselves. Immediately after¬
wards a kind of almost universal commotion communicated j
itself throughout all Rome at the news of his death, which I
spread itself suddenly, together with the fame of his great j
sanctity. Then such a great concourse of people of all I
ranks and conditions began to crowd the church, that the j
soldiers, who had been called to keep good order, had a great j
deal of difficulty to keep the multitude in subjection.
To satisfy the piety of the faithful, whose number in- j
creased more and more, his eminence the Cardinal-Vicar j
gave leave to defer the laying the body under ground till |
the evening of Easter Sunday, which, in this year, 1783, j
falls on the 20th of April. This same day, by order of his |
eminence, the body was, about the time of sunset, laid under |
ground, in an honourable and particular place of this j
church.”
(Signed) Luke Anthony Coselli,
Attorney General of the Vicariate of Rome, j
Francis Mari, Notary, |
at the request of Mr. Joseph Oioconi.
AN ACCOUNT OP THE MIRACLES SAID TO HAVE BEEN 'WROUGHT BY THE ALMIGHTY, j
AT THE INTERCESSION OF HIS FAITHFUL SERVANT, BENEDICT JOSEPH LABRE. j
We read in the thirteenth chapter of the fourth Book of j
Kings, otherwise called the second Book of Kings, that the |
prophet Eliseus died, and they buried him. And the rovers |
from Moab came into the land the same year. And some j
that were burying a man, saw the rovers, and cast the body j
into the sepulchre of Eliseus. And when it had touched |
the bones of Eliseus, the man came to life, and stood upon j
his feet. Here we see a miracle wrought by Almighty God, j
by the means of the relics of His prophet, and that, with- |
out any one’s petitioning for, or even apprehending, the <
likelihood of any such miracle being wrought in favour of
the deceased. After this instance of the extraordinary j
goodness of Almighty God, it is no wonder that the woman
mentioned in the Gospel, Matt. ix. 20, who had been
troubled with an issue of blood twelve years, should have !
such faith and confidence in the goodness of God, as to j
think that if she should touch but the hem of our Saviour’s j
garment she should be healed. And in effect we find that j
Jier faith and confidence were commended, and rewarded by |
our Saviour by the restoration of her health, according to !
her wish.
We read again, in the Acts of the Apostles, xix. 12, that !
aprons and handkerchiefs which had touched the body of !
St. Paul were carried to the sick, and the diseases departed 11
from them, and the wicked spirits went out of them.
These instances of favours received from Almighty God j!
by touching the bones of the prophet Eliseus, and the aprons |;
and handkerchiefs which had touched the body of St. Paul, 11
induced the Christians, in the first ages of Christianity, to j
pay a particular respect and veneration for the bodies or j
relics of the holy martyrs; not doubting but those glorious | i
champions who had conquered the devil and the world by |!
laying down their lives for the faith of Christ, and were |
admitted into the mansions of eternal bliss, would obtain j
similar favours from God for them, or at least present their |
petitions before the throne of God, and solicit for them his |
spiritual graces and benediction. Hence we read in the Acts |
of St. Ignatius, Bishop of Antioch and Martyr, that, being |
devoured by the wild beasts, nothing was left of his body, |
but only some of the bones, which were carried to Antioch,
and given to that church for the martyr’s sake, as an in- |
estimable treasure. Ruinarf s Acta Sincera Martyrum, sect.
5, p. 707.
When the body of St. Polycarp was burnt, the Christians I
collected what remained of his bones, and carried them I
away, which they valued more than gold and precious |
stones. Eusebius, lib. 4, Hist. cap. 15, p. 134.
(To be continued.)
Mr. T. Berks Hutchinson sends word from Cape Town, South |
Africa, that Mr. W. Eglinton, the medium, has arrived there.
| A HORRIBLE RESULT OF OBSESSION OR OF INSANITY;
Ahmedabad, June 20.
A horrible murder was committed at Neriad on the
Sunday before last, the circumstances of which are so
revolting that they make one shudder to relate them. I was
at Neriad the other day, and there I learnt the terrible facts
I am about to relate.
Some boys of the Patidar class were playing near a mandir,
sacred to Rama, about five in the afternoon.' As they played
they seemed to have entered the mandir, where they found a
bava or gosavi, who asked the boys to light the butties in the
little temple. This the boys declined to do, stating that it
was still day and therefore there was no need to light the
| lamps. Thereupon the gosain suddenly pounced upon the
I lad who was nearest to him and threw him upon the ground,
I when he thrust a small knife twice into the boy’s throat; he
i then stuck the knife into the boy’s abdomen, ripping it open.
Horrible to relate, whilst he held down his struggling victim,
he dragged out the entrails, and with savage eagerness began
j sucking and eating them. The poor boy’s comrades, spell¬
bound with horror and fright, could render no immediate
assistance. One of them at length ran out and cried for
| help, when a sepoy and others rushed in and witnessed the
! dreadful sight I have above related. When the murderer was
i seized, he made no resistance; but it was with difficulty that
| he could be made to give up the streaming viscera, which he
| grasped in his hand held by his teeth. The poor mutilated
I boy was removed to the hospital, where he died during the
| night in great agony. The miscreant gosavi, on being asked
I why he committed a deed so atrocious, calmly replied that
I he <{ was moved by the god to do it, and he did it; that the
| child he killed was one of the adversaries of Rama; and that
he was yet commissioned by the god to kill another child, if
j he found it was Ravan.” He said that he was a Ramanundee,
I or worshipper of Yishnoo in his avatar of Rama; that he
j had no fixed place of abode ; that he was a Sadhoo, and that
| he went about from place to place in the service of his god.
j I have since seen the wretch, as he was being brought here
! from Neriad for trial. He is in appearance very like a com-
| mon Waghri, such as people these districts—short, well-
proportioned, and stoutly built. He has an unsettled and
crafty eye, shrinks from looking you in the face, and is
uneasy in his demeanour, but there is no ferocity in his
countenance.
I ventured to ask him, with reference to his cannibal pro¬
pensity, if he was an ugghoori, when he replied rather dis¬
dainfully that he was not, and pointed to two marks branded
into his arms at Dwarka as certificates that he was a good
| Sadhoo. He then said he did not know what moved him to
I commit this atrocity, saying he had never before done harm
] to any mortal thing.
It all reads like a fable out of the Hindoo Mythology, but
| it is only another instance of truth—horrible truth in this case
J —being stranger than fiction.
This murder has created the utmost sensation in Neriad;
and even the ordinary mild Bunnias were openly expressing
their wish that he would not miss the gallows by any plea of
insanity or momentary frenzy. Many hope that he will
be brought back to Neriad and hanged in front of the temple
j where the deed was done. This is by no means a bad idea
| —it would vividly impress on the people, and this descrip¬
tion of villain in particular, that however their gods or devils
! may move them to crime and murder, they are alsolutely
| powerless to save them from the hangman. It is a sad
] reflection that creeds and superstitions so debasing and so
j cruel should still hold dominion over so many of the people
of India.—Bombay Gazette.
| Mr., Mrs., and Miss Tebb are travelling in Switzerland, and will
return to London about the 8th of October. A few days ago they were
i at Interlacken.
The address of Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, President of the Research
Committee of the National Association of Spiritualists, has been
changed in name by the Post Office authorities from 6, Loughborough-
road North, to e^Akerman-road, Brixton, but he wishes it to be known
| that his residence remains the same.
Where is the capitalist who intends to present a piece of freehold
land, alongside one of the main thoroughfares in London, to the Spirit¬
ualistic movement for the erection of the first public building to be
devoted to its purposes ? Where is the large capitalist who, like many
workers in other directions, will do enough in his way to put himself to
* personal inconvenience by the extent of his self-sacrifice ?
Sept. 6, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
115
SELF-REGISTERING APPARATUS FOR WEIGHING MEDIUMS DURING MANIFESTATIONS.
Fig. 1.
Fig. 2.
The new self-recording apparatus for weighing mediums l/. Another horizontal line is then drawn, until the beginning
during manifestations, presented to the British National K| of the manifestations, when the variations in the weight of his
Association of Spiritualists by Mr. Charles Blackburn, of >| body are denoted by the zigzag lines.
Didsbury, reached 38, Great Russell-street, London, last si The whole apparatus has been beautifully made by Mr.
week, and the nature of this valuable scientific instrument >| Dancer, who is a celebrated philosophical instrument maker
may be explained by the aid of the accompanying en- jsi at Manchester. He is also well known in London.
gravings. A, Fig. 1, is an iron pillar, standing upon the j<
base-board B. A zinc drum, E, surrounded by a sheet of !<
paper, is driven by clockwork, and the pencil F, being <
pressed forward by a spring, draws a line upon the paper i'
in consequence of the revolution of the drum. H is a <
spring-balance to which the pencil is attached, and the i
greater the weight which pulls at the ring at the top of the j
balance, the higher does the pencil rise ; a pull of 200 lbs. j
will draw the pencil to the top of the drum ; when there is
no pull at all the pencil is at the bottom of the drum. Thus
the height of any part of the line on the drum represents j
“ weight,” and the position, horizontally, of any part of the |
line represents v time.” |
The method of experimenting is to place the medium in a j
cabinet which is suspended from one end of an iron scale j
beam; the cabinet, but not the medium, is counterbalanced
by weights fixed to the other end of the beam. This opposite
end of the beam is attached by a rope to the iron ring at the
top of the spring-balance H, Fig. 1, so that the weight of
the medium (say 155 lbs.) draws up the pencil, thereby
marking that weight on the drum. The iron stem and
wooden base-board of the apparatus are firmly screwed to the
floor of the room.
Fig. 2 gives another view of the working parts of the
apparatus. A represents the drum, covered with a remov¬
able sheet of paper with horizontal lines printed on it;
the distance between each line indicates a weight of ten
pounds. Where the edges of the paper meet is a vertical row
of printed figures from zero to 200 lbs. E is the spring
balance, and F the pencil, both partly hidden by the drum.
Bands of thin copper, at the top and at the bottom of the
drum, hold the paper in position ; the bands are drawn tight
by means of two little screws, represented in the engraving.
The brass box, T, contains the clockwork for driving the
drum, and the driving-wheel outside is seen below T. A fan-
wheel at H assists in regulating the clockwork. The bent
arm N starts or stops the clockwork by releasing or arresting
the fan-wheel according to its position. K is the key by
which the clockwork is wound up. The brass connecting
gear between the clock and the drum is represented below
the latter. R is the top of the iron stem of the instrument.
When used, the clock is started, and by the revolution of
the drum, the pencil, which is then at zero, draws the hori¬
zontal line W. The medium then enters the cabinet, and
his weight, of say 155 lbs., draws the vertical line W X.
Mr. Blackburn recently wrote to Mr. Harrison:—
Paris, 24th August, 1878.
Deab Sir,—By the enclosed letter just to hand I am informed that
the balance and clockwork apparatus are now ready. I have ordered
the apparatus to he sent at once to your address; therefore, about
Wednesday you will get it, and I will call and see it myself. If this
gift to the British National Association of Spiritualists does not make
known something extraordinary I shall feel much disappointed, for I ap¬
prehend it will be the key to unlock many things yet. I should like the
investigators to be Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. S. Moses, Mr. F. Barrett,
Mr. A. R. Wallace, Sig. E. Bondi, and yourself, with any additional
persons who will fearlessly give publicity through your newspaper to
our experiments, whether the results he for or against. You know I
want publicity, if against us; for we must try again in another way to
find out the solution of this abstruse subject.—Yours truly,
Charles Blackburn.
In conclusion, we cannot close this article without a few
words (never previously spoken, although so well deserved)
as to the great good Mr. Blackburn has done to the cause of
Spiritualism, more especially in its scientific aspects, by
liberal subscriptions in a judicious direction for a long
course of years. He stands at the head of the few sincere
friends who have forwarded the public interests of Spirit¬
ualism by subscribing large sums of money, and had every¬
body able to do so performed their duty in the same way,
the movement would have been much more advanced than
it is at present. There are plenty of rich people who get
all they can out of Spiritualism, but do nothing for it in
return ; who are too cowardly to give their names publicly
to its verity, and too selfish to subscribe to its funds, even
anonymously. How many rich Spiritualists are there who,
having satisfied themselves as to the genuineness of Henry
Slade’s manifestations in times of prosperity, left him to go
to prison if need be, rather than subscribe anonymously in
the time of his adversity ? The individuals who thus are no
good to anybody but themselves, are usually wealthy, retired
tradespeople, accustomed to grasping all they can get from
everybody, and never known to be guilty of a generous act.
During the Slade case some of the chief workers in Spirit¬
ualism asked us to attack these people in The Spiritualist.
In course of time Spiritualism will modify the religious
opinions of the whole human race, and abolish the fear of
death. Its earliest workers are therefore gaining for their
names a permanent place in the pages of history, and among
these workers Mr. Blackburn has set the best of examples
for a long course of years to those who should support the
movement by means of capital.
116
THE SPIRITUALIST. Sept. 6, 1878.
A TALK ABOUT ECCLESIASTICISM AND SPIRITUALISM.
• Nynee Tal, India, 6th July, 1878.
Walking parties are favourite entertainments here. The gentlemen
ride, and the ladies are carried in dandies; but when tea and coffee and
cakes are sent on in advance to the top of a hill, and ten or a dozen people
journey together to the spot, they are said to have taken a walk, as the
phrase is understood in Kumaon. The beauty of the system is, that
you receive the sesthetic pleasures of a picnic—the society of young
ladies and improving conversation—without consuming indigestible food
at unusual hours. There are certain well-known destinations available
for walking parties, and if Aryapatha or the land-slips of Lauria Kanta
is named, the local Mtmutghar knows at once what duty fate has
assigned him, and goes on in advance with his kettle and attendant
coolies, his camp table and baskets of preparations, steering straight
for the appointed spot—where he lays the cloth and makes tea with
his usual sweetness of temper and placid resignation to the sahib-log's
freaks.
My walking party last Sunday evening fell into an animated conver¬
sation about the Bishop who is here just now. Sunday evenings, I
should explain, are often chosen for expeditions of this kind. People
are free of other engagements generally, and have nothing to play at.
Our hostess remarked that the Bishop had been preaching a charity
sermon in aid of additional clergy.
“ I saw the notice,” said—Major Marcellus, let me call him—“ but I
thought if I went I might be led in a rash moment to invest in additional
clergy, so I kept out of the way of temptation.”
“It would be interesting,” said a Sessions Judge who was with us,
“ to get everyone in Nynee Tal to-day who may subscribe for additional
clergy, to make a declaration as to why he did so.”
“ In many- large stations in India,” said our hostess, “ extra clergy¬
men are really wanted. The chaplains have more work than they can
get through.”
“ What sort of work ?”
“ Services, and looking after schools, and calling on people, I
suppose.”
“There is no doubt, I think,” said a gentleman from England
who is touring about the world, “that clergymen share in the con¬
scientious spirit that pervades society in this age, and make work for
themselves wherever they may be.”
“ And wouldn’t the Bishop be touching them up if they did not,” said
some one else. “ My mare, Matilda, is strictly conscientious after pig,
when I’ve got a pair of sharp spurs on.”
“ We are all conscientious in the present day, spurs or no spurs, and
clergymen, as I say, like the rest.”
“ Then you have nothing for the Bishop to do .if he is not wanted to
keep his chaplains up to the collar.”
“ The Bishop, no doubt, conscientiously exhausts himself in rushing
about the country to make sure that everything is going on well. As
we see, it has been found possible to employ a new bishop in the
Punjab.”
“ Then at that rate things will never stop. The bishops make us
import additional clergy, and the additional clergy render necessary the
appointment of more bishops.”
“ That is progress,” said the judge, ‘‘and looking forward one may
dimly discern the time when the multiplication of Indian bishoprics will
necessitate Indian archbishops to look after the inferior prelates.”
“ And who will look after the archbishops ? ”
“ We all of us look after them. It is part of the philosophy of the
unconscious that Edward von Hartmann writes about. Their zeal
springs—so far as it needs any other stimulus than the conscientious¬
ness that our friend here has already spoken of—from the pressure of
public opinion. You, my dear Pat, at this moment, by what Hartmann
would call an intermediate psychical process, are touching up the Arch¬
bishop of Canterbury.”
“ Who was Hartmann ? ’’ asked our hostess.
“ A German metaphysician who followed Schoppenhauer, the
Pessimist.”
“ And what is a Pessimist ? ’’
Major Marcellus, who had been discussing pension rules with another
member of our party, here remarked that the service was going to
the devil.
“ That,” said the judge, taking up the remark as an illustration, “is
Pessimism, but of the kind that Schoppenhauer would call unreasoned.
When the whole subject is made clear for us in nice metaphysical
language, we learn that ‘ the inmost kernel of our nature is the one
universal will,’ also that absence of end of all limits belongs to the nature
of vjiWper se which is an endless striving.”
The doctor here asked for a peg, and our hostess said that it was a
pity German philosophers wduld always choose such dry subjects.
“But Schoppenhauer,” said the judge, “is a very lively writer of
his class. He is much concerned with analysing the philosophy of
flirtation. Ladies should study his writings more than they do. I
remember that he elucidates the subject broadly by saying that ‘the
longing and pain of love cannot derive their material from the wants of
an ephemeral individual; but they are the sighs of the spirit of the
species which here discerns an irrecoverable means to its ends either to
be won or to be lost.’ ’’
“ It is very clever of you to recollect all that,” said our hostess. “ It’s
like the story about the young person who went into the garden to cut a
cabbage leaf to make an apple pie. Nothing is more difficult to remember
by heart than pure gibberish.”
“ But the passage I have quoted,” said the judge, “ is verbatim from
the great work of a highly esteemed modern philosopher; and means
that when a young man falls in love he does so entirely for the sake of
his future grandchildren.”
“ What nonsense!”
1“ You remind me of Virginia,” said the judge.
“ Who was Virginia ? ”
“ A young lady of fortune, who married a colonial bishop, and was
| wrecked on an island with a Positivist professor. Mr. W. H. Mulloch
has written about her in the Contemporary Review ”
This subject proved more interesting than the philosophy of the
I! unconscious, and we encouraged the judge to go on.
“ The Professor,” he said, “ is wrecked with Virginia in a large boat
|) | amply supplied with the choicest provisions and wines. There is also a
11 i curate, who is converted by the Professor’s eloquence to the religion of
IS! Humanity: ‘ Thanks to your glorious teaching,’ he says, ‘ the very
I) | notion of an Almighty Father makes me laugh consumedly.’ ‘Do you
jci believe,’ says Paul, ‘in solemn significance and unspeakably happy
If humanity?’ ‘Ido,’ said the curate fervently. ‘ Whenever I think of
|) | humanity I moan to myself out of sheer solemnity.’ Physical comforts
j c | abound, as I have said. ‘ It is rather sad,’ sighs Virginia, as she dived
I s i into a box of French chocolate creams, ‘ to think that all the poor people
|) i are drowned that these things belonged to.’ ‘ They are not dead,’ said
] (| the Professor; ‘ they still live on the holy and stupendous earth. They
| s I live in the use we are making of all they got together. The owner of
|) i those chocolate creams is immortal because you are eating them.’
I (| Virginia, the chronicle here tells us, licked her lips, and said ‘ Non-
j \; sense!’ the same remark which our hostess bestowed a moment ago on
j) j Schoppenhauer. The Professor assures her it is not nonsense, but the
(| religion of humanity, as intended by Auguste Comte, and preached by
|) | Mr. Frederick Harrison and other disciples of the Positive faith. So the
|) | satire goes on. The curate makes love to Virginia, which gives rise to
||| trouble; but afterwards takes to drinking brandy as a “self-regarding
)j act,” to which no one can reasonably object, and gets killed by falling
) over a cliff. ‘What event,’ says the Professor, ‘could be more
j \ | charming, more unspeakably holy ! It bears about it every mark of
j)j sanctity. It is for the greatest happiness of the greatest number.’
!) | Things go on very pleasantly for awhile; but the Professor is suddenly
| j j induced to go off in pursuit of a monkey, whom he takes to be the
|) j missing link. Virginia beseeches him not to go and leave her alone,
i) ‘I must,’ said the Professor solemnly, ‘ for I am going in pursuit of truth,
j < i To arrive at truth is man’s perfect and most rapturous happiness. To
i) i pursue truth—holy truth for holy truth’s sake—is a more solemn plea-
j( j sure than even frizzing your hair.’ Virginia is left to take care of her-
! (I self; but in the midst of her distress, her eyes fell on a tin box of the
I j | Professor’s—marked ‘ Private ’ — which he always kept carefully
| ( i locked, and which had before now excited her curiosity. Suddenly
I (I she became conscious of a new impulse. ‘ I will pursue truth,’ she
) i exclaimed. ‘I will break that box open, and I will see what is inside
11 it.’ ‘ Ah !’ she added, as with the aid of the poker she at last wrenched
(| off the. padlock—‘ Paul may be right after all; there is more interest in
) i the pursuit of truth thanl thought there was.’ ”
| (| “ And what does Virginia discover in the box ?” asked our hostess.
I) | “ The story,” replied the judge, “ is of no great importance. The
) | merit of the whole sketch consists partly in its wit, partly in its admir-
I (i able mockery of the farcical notions which the Comtists dignify by the
|); name of a new religion. We began by speaking—not irreverently, but
|) j without enthusiasm at any rate—of our bishop, but the way bishops and
| (| all they represent have lasted in the world is a great fact. The religion
I) i of humanity can never be more than a whim.”
I1' | “ The interesting question about all the bishop represents,” said the
tourist, “ is whether it will last. The mere fact that this question is
being asked in a hundred ways by intellectual writers of all shades of
opinion about other things is too significant to be overlooked.”
i “ What do you think yourself?” asked our hostess.
“ That it will last with modifications. And one aspect of the subject
ithat presents itself to me as manifestly possible will perhaps seem less
attractive to you unless accidental circumstances may have prepared
you for it. It seems to be that religion may perhaps share at last in
I the benefits of advanced scientific knowledge. People sometimes say
that we have found out so much now about the laws of matter that we
j cannot make any further such great advance in scientific discovery as
! was made, for instance, when science first began to realise what could
! be done with electricity. But I do not see any reason to suppose that
I scientific research may not take us eventually beyond the limits of
matter, and give us some exact knowledge on subjects that have hitherto
| rested entirely on faith ?”
| “ But is there any reason to suppose that this will be done ?”
“Some of you may not welcome what I am going to say, because
) i you will at once interpret the words I shall have to use incorrectly;
); but the fact is that much has already been done in the direction I point
< | out—by Spiritualism.”
j | Our tourist was greeted with a shout of laughter when he said this—
) | but he went on.
11 “ That laugh, after what I have said, is as much a matter of course as
) | sl u after a q.”
)i “Do you mean to talk seriously of a wretched imposture that
s | has been exposed a hundred times in the police courts ?” said our
) I hostess.
(| “ If you try to make me pull accordions for you, and ring bells under
\ \ the table after I am dead,” said the Major, “ I’ll give you what-for the
) | first time I catch you alone in a dark place.”
} i “ Has any one else anything to interpolate,” asked the tourist, “before
j | I go on with my subject ?”
) i Some more chaff followed; and after he had used the word a second
} I time, some one asked him why he said “ interpolate.”
(i “Because everything that has been said since I made a reference to
) | Spiritualism has no more to do with that subject than casting horo-
) | scopes has to do with astronomy. Our friend the Major is in the
s i position of a man who says spectrum analysis must be nonsense,
j | because mediaeval astrologers employed a jargon about the stars when
'1 they tried to tell fortunes. I can explain how this matter stands in a
Sept. 6, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
117
very few words. A considerable number of highly cultivated and in¬
telligent people are endeavouring at this moment to ascertain whether
it is not possible to obtain experimental knowledge on the subject of
the future state, and they are stimulated in this endeavour by what
they think a very considerable measure of success already obtained,
Now, hitherto people of the ordinary sort have been trained to believe.
as they understand believing, a great many things without knowing
anything about them. Elevating a degrading belief in this way rested
so far on pure faith. Hence the credulity on which fraudulent persons
practise when they organise sham seances, and gull a foolish public till
some one finds them out. A. and B. are earnest inquirers into occult
science. They encounter a phenomenon—call it materialisation. It is
vague, mysterious, perplexing, but deeply interesting: so A. and B.
and earnest friends meet constantly to study it, and try and learn more
about it. Their inquiry gets talked of. C. and D., pickpockets down
on their luck, or showmen who have found the public tired of mermaids
and woolly horses, at once advertise in the papers. ‘ We get materialisa¬
tions too. Come and see at a guinea a head.’ Lots of people go;
lots of simpletons are imposed on! finally C. and D. are found out
dressing up a maid servant in a tablecloth. They are sent to prison
for six months. Then, what happens 1 Our friend, the Major, meets
A. or B., or one of their friends, and says, ‘ Do you mean to talk to
me seriously about materialisation ? Why, don’t you know the whole
thing was utterly exposed and shown to be a sham in the famous C.
and D. case ? ’ ”
“ But the spiritualistic tricks have been exposed so often ? ’ ’
“That is because there are so many C.’s and D.’s, and so many
people in the world ready to believe what they do not understand.”
“ That is very stupid of them, of course,” began our hostess.
“ Stupid! ” cried the tourist. “ Good heavens ; what would the
Bishop say if he heard you? Will you reflect for a moment on what
it is that we are called on to believe without understanding.”
“ But the things can’t be put upon the same level.”
“ The minds which believe without understanding are all upon the
same level, whether the thing they believe in is true or untrue.”
“ But I believe in spectrum analysis, though I do not under¬
stand it.”
“You understand it by deputy, which comes to the same thing.
You know that Mr. Norman Lockyer, for instance, understands it
because there is overwhelming evidence to that effect.”
“ And in matters of religion, why may I not put the Bishop for Mr.
Norman Lockyer ? ”
“ My dear madam,” said the tourist, “ there is an immense differ¬
ence ”—but at this moment it began to rain, and our hostess, forgetting
the Bishop, remembered that she had a feather in her hat, and
screamed for an umbrella. We were sitting on an exposed hill-top,
and the prospect of a wetting obliged us to hurry off towards home.
The only further reference to the subject of our talk was made by the
Major.
“ Well,” he said to the tourist, “I’d never have spotted you as a
man who was credulous enough to go in for Spiritualism.”
“ And I’d never have spotted you,” said the tourist, “ as a man
who’d fail to see that I go in for Spiritualism because my whole nature
is essentially incredulous.”
I have told you about our conversation, because there have been no
local events since I last wrote that can interest any one living beyond
these municipal limits. Ctoncts.
—The Pioneer (Allahabad).
©orngponueuce.
[ Great freedom is offered to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
are not anonymous.  
A PLEA FOB THE WONDERFUL.
Sir,—It is indeed a matter for astonishment that man should be so
prone to reject the wonderful; for the constitution of himself, and of
all things he knows, has but that foundation.
These things are very wonderful. Man knows not the purpose of
his creation, nor his destiny beyond the grave; he knows, perhaps,
but does not understand, his Creator ; he cannot conceive an eternity
of time, nor can he conceive time as beginning ; he knows nothing of
the real origin of the earth on which he lives, and space is a word
which has no actual meaning for him ; the origin and existence of all
things are beyond his ken, reand the great “ first principles ” of existence
are unknown to him.
How incomplete, then, is his knowledge. He has read, as it were,
but the centre chapter of the great book of time. He knows not the
beginning nor the end. Like a child he has pieced one figure of the
picture, but the rest is beyond him. But, strangely, he does not live
always in this knowledge of his littleness. The completeness of the
world hides this continually from him. His existence has a most
forcible reality. He has no remembrance of a beginning—mo realisa¬
tion of an end. His sight, and touch, and every faculty, are in perfect
harmony.
One thing follows from another, and there seems no question beyond.
For sorrow, there is comfort; for hate, revenge; for sowing, reaping ;
and in nature or humanity he finds no defect of construction, no incom¬
pleteness. So man lives.
But there are times when he seems to “live” no longer. He is a
spectator simply of the great drama around him. In these moments
he wonders greatly. He wonders at the worlds above him, which ho
sees but as specks on the blue firmament; he wonders at the vast
beyond ; he wonders at the toiling all around him ; nothing seems
familiar. He wonders at all, and, in some sense, feels face to face with
the Great Presence behind all.
Moments like these have changed the current of many a life, and
some would fain accept them as the times chosen by the Almighty for
personal revelation to His children—the thoughts as messages from
heaven.
What man, then, shall have the temerity to judge what is im¬
possible ? Judged by the laws he has formulated, eternity is im¬
possible, space is impossible, and the greatest impossibility of all, an
uncaused first cause. Miracles, and prophecies, and visions of the
dead are probabilities compared to the impossibilities through which
man exists; and the mind which dismisses them as contrary to
common experience, and impossible, has surely a blind narrowness in
its organization.
In man the greatest childishness is dogmatism. If he would
advance in knowledge he must not drift on the waters which stretch
far around him, but must face the billows of the sea called
“ wonderful,” whose white foam breaks in the distance.
Allen Lewis.
SPIRITUALISM IN HACKNEY.
Sir,—I should be obliged if you will insert the following notice:—At
the Hackney Psychological Society, 6, Field Yiew-terrace, London-
fields, E., on Monday, September 9th, 7.30 for 8, there will be a lecture
on “Mesmeric Experiments, with Hints upon the Development of
Trance and Physical Mediumship,” by C. Bhys Williams, mesmerist.
Collection to obtain communion table for siances.
Hon. Sec., Bichard Carrall.
Gen. Sec., C. Rhys Williams.
September Ith, 1878.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN THE HOME CIRCLE.
Sir,—I consider myself bound, like every Spiritist, to contribute to
the advancement of the new science by publishing/acis.
The medium for the phenomena which I intend to describe was my
own daughter, who developed into a medium very recently. The only
persons present and interested in the occurrences were my wife and
myself.
We knew that an important document had fallen into the hands of a
person most cruelly influenced by bad spirits, and that the detention of
that document, which was of no value to any one except to its legitimate
owner, was a serious danger to one of our friends. That document has
been brought back to us by a kind and amiable spirit friend of ours,
whom we know to be devoutly attached to the members of my family,
both in spirit life and in earth life.
I should add that in the manifestation there was no ambiguous cir¬
cumstance of any kind—nothing to give room for any doubt—and that
we were by no means in a state of hallucination. The return of the
paper had been promised to us because the spirits knew that harm
might be, or would be, done by means of it. It was handed to my
daughter by an invisible hand in our presence, not in the dark, but
while there was light enough to permit reading.
I was extremely anxious to state the fact publicly, with the name of
the spirit, the medium, and mine. For reasons known to themselves,
our spirit friends have forbidden me to do so, alleging that serious harm
might be the consequence to the medium. They have ordered the
destruction of the paper, and requested the publication of the circum¬
stances in this anonymous form. I regret it most decidedly, as I am
fully alive to the necessity of all of us bearing testimony to the truth.
  Pr.
HEALING- MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—As you have been kind enough to insert in your- valuable
paper some testimonials of several cures which I have efiected, allow
me to send you for the same purpose the following lines :—
On the 23rd inst., as I was coming out of Messrs. Tegg and Co.’s
office at St. Pancras-lane, in the City, one of his workmen, named
Ward, stepped by me, and being suddenly seized with an attack of
epilepsy, he turned, nearly twisting round me, and fell almost at my
feet. The attack was accompanied by violent agitation and convulsions.
Several of his fellow-operatives came rushing out to hold him tight, in
order to prevent his knocking himself about, for it appears that generally
it takes several people to keep him under upon such occasions; but I,
although a stranger to him, ordered the said parties to hold back, and
placing my left hand on his forehead, and seizing softly his left wrist
with my right hand, at once made his convulsions cease. I held him
thus for about seventeen minutes, during which he was motionless, and
at the end of the time he got up by himself, took a little water, and went
to rest for some- twenty or twenty-five minutes, after which he resumed
his work. I have been informed that on the previous occasions the
convulsions produced by the attack have lasted from one hour to one
hour and a half, and that he became unable to resume his work for
several hours. The cashier and the warehouseman of the house have
among others witnessed the attacks, consequently they have become
acquainted with every circumstance connected with them.
• F. Omerin.
5, Northumborland-street, Strand, London, 31st August, 1878.
DR. MONCK.
Sir,—Having just met Dr. Monck in Switzerland, I should like to
inform his friends that he is still, I am sorry to say, suffering very much
from the effects of the great strain on his constitution caused by the
evolution of the Mahedi and those other forms from his body, so care¬
fully reported by Mr. Colley and other gentlemen a few months ago in
London. His health is entirely broken, and he is incapable of any
exertion of mind or body: he has fallen a victim to his laudable desire
to let investigators observe how spirits make themselves material
beings. Although Dr. Monck is at present hors de combat, he expects-
118
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 6, 1878.
to regain his health, and the hope is held out to him by his guides that
the world will have the opportunity yet of witnessing still more won¬
derful things through him. It is satisfactory to know that, whether
these expectations be realised or not, more than thirty competent
witnesses, whose evidence it is impossible to refute, have been present
at these materialisation seances. We have learnt also, at his expense,
what will be the probable fate of any medium who does not shelter
himself in darkness during the process of materialisation of the forms.
J. H. Gledstanes.
Interlacken, Aug. 31st, 1878.  
THE INTERLINKED RINGS.
Sir,—With regard to the above matter, I think that there are some
points which may be cleared up by those present at the seance of July
27th last. 1. Is it to be understood that the wooden ring which has
been referred to was one of the “ number of small rings ” mentioned in
Mr. Reimers’ letter {Spiritualist, August 2nd, page 51) as having been
brought by Herr Gillis on the 22nd July ? If not, can its history be
definitely traced ? 2. What period elapsed between the time that the
»manifestation ” occurred and that at which Herr Gillis took pos¬
session of the specimen ? How long was this time, and through whose
hands did the ring pass ? On the theory that the two halves of the
wooden ring were cemented together after they were linked with the ivory
ring, some time would be necessary to allow the cement (or glue) to stick.
It is to be hoped that the thorough honour and good faith which has
always distinguished some at least of the persons present at the seance
referred to will induce a reply to these two little questions.
C. Carter Blake.
Sir,—Allow me to suggest that, if out of twelve common rings one
may be broken and glued, and out of these, again, one in twelve be
restored to such perfection that ordinary ocular examination fails to
detect the junction, then I may add that, out of a hundred mediums,
only one would dare to try a fraud under the circumstances described.
Leaving the intervention of a “ tricky spirit ’’ out of the question,
remember that even if one of the mediums could free himself (of course
with the knowledge of his neighbours), a fraud of such delicate nature
could not be well possible in the dark. Introducing duplicate rings into
the seawee-room'is, of course, possible, for if the diameter and thickness
of the ivory ring are ascertained, a match might easily be picked up in
a shop, and the companion fixed at leisure. But how could they be
brought to our field of view under the preserved condition of hands
joined? If secret imposture is accepted as a possible solution of the
mystification, wherefore the cracking of the rings and the smashing
about, including the breaking off a large corner of the marble mantel¬
piece ? If the chances of fraud on the earthly side are nearly nil, the
theory in favour of tricky spirits may come in. As the honour of the
mediums is involved, I hope you will allow all the circumstances to be
placed on record, in order to ascertain on which side explanation is to be
sought. C. Reimers,
London, Sept. 2nd, 1878. - ■
SPIRITUALISM IN MANCHESTER AND OLDHAM.
Sir,—At 2.30 p.m. on Sunday the Manchester Society of Spiritualists
held their usual meeting in the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-street, in
that town. I was called upon to address the meeting, which I did,
founding my remarks upon the opinion expressed by Professor Huxley,
in his letter to the Committee of the London Dialectical Society :—
‘‘ The only good I can see in a demonstration of Spiritualism is to
furnish an additional argument against suicide. Better live a crossing-
sweeper than die and be made to talk twaddle by a medium hired at a
guinea a stance” My remarks were kindly and attentively listened to
by a small audience, principally Spiritualists. Mr. Fitton, and a gentle¬
man whose name I did not catch, occupied the platform. I was pre¬
vented from attending any seances in Manchester, having to catch the
5.30 train to Oldham to lecture in the Society’s hall there at 6 p.m.
The hall in Union-street, Oldham, was well filled. The seeing of so
many new faces, and so few of the old ones I had known there three
years ago, suggested a subject for the evening’s address—“Where are
our friends ?” I had much freedom of speech, and made painful
memories pleasant in the light of modern Spiritualism. The Oldham
Society has passed through many difficulties, frequently being on the
verge of “ smash,” but now, thanks to the lessons of the past, and to
patience and fidelity to truth, it is an active hard-working society. The
singing of the choir on Sunday night was truly excellent, and the right
kind of influence was present to favour an impromptu address.
At the close of the meeting many of the members remained and held
a stance to which I stayed; nothing remarkable took place in the way
of controls, yet a homely, pleasant hour was spent in listening to the
thoughts and suggestions made by trance and normal speakers.
At the invitation of both the Manchester and Oldham friends, I intend
to give a series of mesmeric lectures with experiments in both places
next winter. J. Coates.
12, Lime-street, Liverpool.
Mr. J. N. Gledstanes is in Switzerland, but will return to Bordeaux
at the end of this week. Miss Ottley is at Versailles. Mrs. Hony-
wood has returned to London, from the Continent. Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory will shortly visit Paris.
Accident to Mrs. Bellew.—Last Saturday Mrs. Bellew, widow of
the Rev. Mr. Bellew, the celebrated public speaker, was in the up
train from Ramsgate which came into collision with some trucks at
Sittingbourne. Some of the passengers sitting on both sides of her in
the same compartment were killed; Mrs. Bellew escaped 'with the
fracture of two ribs, and, necessarily under the terrible circumstances,
a severe nervous shock. It is pleasing to be able to state that she is
now recovering from the injuries. Mrs. Bellew is one of the members
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT DUBLIN.
RELIGIOUS PERSECUTION IN IRELAND.
An opinion was expressed in these pages by our special
correspondent at the British Association at Dublin, that
Spiritualism does not spread rapidly in Ireland because of
the superabundant number of priests, with their eyes and
tongues everywhere, being able to raise universal prejudice
against any man who thinks and acts freely in matters
religious. Although Roman Catholics of ail kinds are in a
great majority in Ireland, they are not as yet the chief
ruling power. Their organ, the Freeman, says :—
If a man be a Protestant, high up in the Masonic order, he may aspire
to any official positionin Ireland. If not, nine gates of advancement out of
ten are shut against him. That Catholics are more or less influenced by
the same prejudices is a fact; but not at all to the same extent as
Protestants, as is easily shown. This religious exclusiveness, often
leading to sectarian bitterness, is but the natural fruit of the seed
sown in the past. Protestants still retain their instincts of ascen¬
dency, but with it the feeling that their power is gradually slipping
from their hands. They are, in fact, in the position of a political
garrison who still defend the citadel, though they know the cause
is hopeless. The influence of the past, when by English-made law
it was no murder to kill a Catholic; when it was lawful for a Pro¬
testant son to rob his Catholic father; when a Protestant, seeing a
Catholic with a fine horse, could force its sale for five pounds ; when
a Catholic could not be a citizen, or a tradesman, or practise a profes¬
sion, or even learn to read; when over every door to social or
national advancement was written, as on the gates of Bandon bridge,
“ Turk, Jew, or Atheist may enter here, but not a Papistwhen the
Catholic priest was banned and proscribed, a price set upon his head,
“ and the same dog was taught to hunt upon the trail of wolf and
friar ;” and when the Irish Catholic was only permitted to live at all
that he might be the hewer of wood and the drawer of water for his
Protestant master—that influence is still upon the Protestants of
Ireland, whether they acknowledge or realise it or not. They treat
the effort of a Catholic to advance in the world as an intrusion, and if
he attains to any position, official or otherwise, they regard it as so
much spoil of which they have been unjustly de prived. As they are a
minority, and are daily more hard driven to main tain this ascendency,
they resort to the strictest organisation for the purpose of preserving
the monopolies which remain to them. Wherever the Protestant
party—for it is the political party called Protestant, and not the
members of that religion, as such, whom we indicate—attain power,
they use it without compunction or exception for the purpose of their
own aggrandisement.
MORAL LAPSES UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF PRESSURE.
One of the governing powers at the late meeting of the
British Association was the Rev. S. Haughton, of Trinity
College, Dublin, a man of remarkable genius, and one who
did perhaps more work than anybody to provide for the
entertainment of the visitors. At a breakfast at the Dublin
Zoological Gardens, he thus confessed how he, a clergyman,
had been tempted to slide from the path of virtue:—
The Dublin Zoological Society is extremely poor, and has a large
number of animals to feed, and the country gentlemen of Ireland, let me
add, are extremely shabby in their support of it, yet they expect to have
zoological gardens for their wives and children to go to when they come
to Dublin. The result is to throw most of the expense upon the citizens
of Dublin, who have done their duty always well by the society.
Gentlemen, as you can easily imagine in such a peculiar institution, the
treasurer and secretary must be peculiar men. (Laughter.) First, with
respect to our treasurer, he must pay his tradesmen with I 0 U’s, and
afterwards abuse them when they ask for their money. (Laughter.)
This has gone so far at times that our poverty became notorious, and
not a bank in Dublin would discount our bills. What was to be done?
The treasurer and I went as a deputation to the Bank of Ireland, and
we asked for a loan of £200, which, to our great surprise, was refused.
(Laughter.) A happy thought then occurred to me—to ofler to deposit
a live tiger with the bank as a pledge. (Loud laughter.) For some
strange reason the offer was declined, but we got the loan of £200.
Our excellent treasurer, Mr. Maxwell Hutton, who has an hereditary
strain of financial talent, derived from his father, who was our former
treasurer, now supports me as purse-bearer, as his father supported my
predecessor. Before proceeding to the special duty of the morning, I
will recall one or two facts taken at random from the history of the
many financial crises through which these gardens have passed—which
will give you some idea of the extraordinary shifts to which the
secretary and treasurer have been occasionally put to provide the
necessary funds for feeding their large stock of pets. We had a
leopardess who had been caged in the gardens for well-nigh seventeen
years. She was in excellent health and condition for an animal of that
age. Gentlemen, I advertised that leopardess for sale, and named her
price £30. I received several offers of £25, but wrote in reply that the
market for leopardesses was rising, and that these interesting animals
no longer continued to look down—(laughter)—and that my next adver¬
tisement would raise the rate to £35. Upon this I was favoured with
sundry offers to take the leopardess—all of which offers, except one,
contained a very unpleasant inquiry about the animal’s age. But by
the blessing of Providence one letter made no allusion to this rather
delicate subject. (Laughter.) I sent off the animal at once, and
received on her anival a single line by telegraph, expressed in words
which showed me that the sender, if an Englishman, must have had a
Sept. 6, 1878.
119
THE SPIRIT U A.LIST.
strong dash of Irish blood in his body. The words were these :—“ Mr. j (
So-and-so, animal dealer, to the Rev. Dr. Haughton ” (every one is |>
particular about the reverend in addressing me)—“ She is as old as the j j
devil.’, (Loud laughter.) I leave it to moralists to say why it is that | j
persons who are ordinarily truthful and honest in dealings about soap, |
candles—(laughter)—tobacco, timber, or slates, become utterly de- j
moralised when engaged in the barter of live animals. If I had time I j
might enter on the discussion of this by myself, but not having time, j
perhaps some of the statisticians of Section F will take up the question j
which I now throw out for their consideration. (Laughter). For I
myself, I can only say that I was virtuously brought up, had the j j
advantage of a pious mother, and can still repeat my catechism ; but I j i
feel as the result of my twenty years’ connection with this garden, that |
partly from the pinch of poverty, and partly from the demoralisation | j
connected with the sale of animals—(laughter)—my moral sense has been i
dwarfed not a little. All I can say in self-justification is that if the | j
secretary of the Dublin Zoological Gardens sold his leopards and also |
sold the buyer of the leopardess, he did it with the full knowledge of the I
fact that the dealer would have sold me if he could. (Loud laughter.) I j
Another story to illustrate our many difficulties. I told you before that 11
our country gentlemen are not liberal in the support of the Zoological J
Gardens, and I resolved to turn an honest penny on them. I, there- j
fore, crossed a fine breed of Australian dingoes with Labrador water
dogs, and I advertised splendid watch-dog pups for sale. (Laughter.) \1
I sold them off at two guineas each, until our funds were again |
replenished. All went well while the dogs were pups, but when the j
brutes grew up the wild strain of the sheep-killing blood burst out,
and accounts appeared in the newspapers of strange, wild-looking
animals in Clare, Mayo, and Roscommon slaughtering the sheep, j
(Laughter.) There is a gentleman in this room now who knows a
farmer, twelve of whose sheep were killed by one of these valuable
watch-dogs. (Laughter). As soon as the sale ceased I thought it better !
to stop the breeding of the dogs, and I made a clean breast of the whole j
business at an annual meeting of our society, informing my friends that i
they need be no longer alarmed, as the sales had provided sufficient j
funds for the time to relieve our difficulties, and save us from resorting |
to this expedient. Some time ago, considering the danger to my morals
involved in filling the office of secretary, I had some thoughts of
resigning it, and I consulted with a clerical friend in whose piety and
wisdom I had much confidence. He told me it was a difficult case— !
not provided for in the books. (Laughter.) He thought if my health i
allowed it I might keep the place for some time longer, but he advised
me, as a friend, to retire from it for some time before death to give j
time for repentance. (Laughter.)
On another occasion Mr. Haughton presided over Section
A (Mathematical and Physical Science), and expressed his j
opinion that it was immeasurably superior to all the other I
sections; in fact, geometry was of such importance that j
Plato imagined that the Divine Being spent all His spare j
time in its study.
Mr. Haughtou was not very thankful to the Government i
for giving a million pounds towards the education of boys, j
because it was their own property, taken out of the Irish j
Church surplus. He said that if they chopped a piece off a !
dog’s tail, then gave it to him to eat, they had no right to |
expect him to be very grateful.
ANIMAL PSYCHOLOGY. |
Mr. Romanes thus informed the Biological Section how |
he caused jelly-fishes to become intoxicated:—
As the investigation was conducted in the North of Scotland, I 1
wished to ascertain whether jelly-fishes in the locality exhibited the
same partiality for a particular kind of beverage, of which the other !
inhabitants of the place seemed to be particularly fond. I therefore
poured into the water where the fish were contained a good stiff dram of
Highland whiskey. The effects were most demoralising. The previous- j
sober swimming motions became highly excited and hilarious, and the j
animals tumbled about in a rollicking manner. Later on a drowsiness
began to come over them, and eventually they subsided to the bottom of |
the vessel in a state of beastly drunkenness. They recovered rapidly j
when removed to fresh water.
THE INFLUENCE OF SCIENTIFIC REVELATIONS UPON DIFFERENT ORDERS OF MIND. i
Dr. R. McDonnell, P.R.S., in his presidential add ressto |
the Department of Anatomy and Physiology, said:—
It is obvious to every one who allows himself calmly to reflect for a
moment that no physician can be a good practitioner who does not know j
something of the work done and the duties performed by the heart, or
the stomach, or the lungs when in a healthy state. Diseases are j
deviations from health. To understand the one it is necessary to know
something of the other. You will pardon me, therefore, if I again
express my doubts of the intelligence or honesty of those practitioners
who treat contemptuously experimental physiology, and such work as
has been achieved by men like Claude Bernard. Faust, in his great
soliloquy, addressing the sublime spirit of good, says—“ Thou didst not
grant to me merely the cold gaze of open-mouthed astonishment. Thou
permittedst me to see into the depths of nature as into the hosom of a
friend.” (Hear, hear.) It has been the lot of some amongst those j
whom I address to have exhibited to some of their friends the circula- i
tion of the blood as seen through a microscope in the web of a frog’s
foot. They will have been struck, no doubt, as I have been, by the
effect which this spectacle when witnessed for the first time has on
different observers. Some look upon it much as they would upon a i
| clever conjuring trick. “ How fast it goes,” they say. They are
! astonished that anything of the kind could go on in a frog. The cold-
| unintelligent gaze of open-mouthed wonderment is, perhaps, even too
strong an expression for any emotion which stirs them. Others are
struck dumb by the sight before them. One sees at once that they have
| caught a glimpse of a boundless prospect, that they feel that it has been
| granted to them to see more deeply into the bosom of nature than they
have ever done. One perceives, to use again Goethe’s words, that the
| Sublime Spirit has not turned to them His countenance in vain; that He
| has given to them glorious nature for a realm, with power to enjoy and
| feel its sway. There is an anecdote which I have either heard or
dreamed of, as true, perhaps, as many such anecdotes, and yet full of
| meaning, that when Malpyhi first showed to the Pope, whose friend and
| physician he was, this marvellous sight, his Holiness, having contem-
| plated it for some moments in silence, raised his hands and eyes to
I Heaven repeating the “ Te Deum,” then kneeling thanked God for
having permitted him to live to see so impressive a sight. “ Is it
indeed true,” he asked, “ that this wondrous movement goes on within
| me and you and all men!” Being told that doubtless it was so—
j Merantur aliquit (said he, using the words of St. Augustine) altitudines
! montium, engentes Jluctus marts, altisimus lapsus Jiuminium et gyros
i siderunt relinquunt seipsos nec merentur. Apparently Pope Innocent XI.
I viewed with less jealousy and suspicion than many ecclesiastics are
wont to do those divine writings traced on the face of nature, too little
studied by the theologians, the interpretations and decipherment of
! which are the province or the pleasure of the man of science.
(Applause.) I allude to. this difference between various individuals
| when contemplating some new disclosure in natural science, because
it illustrates the fashion in which the discovery to which I next allude
is viewed by different classes of minds. A small filament of nerve, no
II thicker than a tiny silken thread, is divided in a rabbit’s neck.
| i Immediately a change is observed in the pupil of her eye on the same
i j side. The ear on that side is felt to be obviously hotter than the other.
\ i The blood vessels on that side of her head throb and contain more
j blood. This same small filament of nerve is galvanised, and the
! reversal of the above phenomenon is found to take place. To some
i observation it is not only a meaningless juggler’s trick, but a cruel one.
i To others it is a key which opens a chamber full of treasures. It is
i like a newly-discovered isthmus or bridge uniting two vast continents
1 j —that of the circulatory system with that of the nervous system. In
j this controlling power of the nerves over the calibre of the blood lies
| the explanation of many of the most interesting phenomena which go
| on within us. The burning blush of shame, the cheek blanched with
I fear, the sudden activity of glandular secretion—as when an emotion of
} i the mind causes tears to flow, as salt placed on the tongue causes the
i1 secretion of saliva—the activity of the brain during our waking
i j moments, its deathlike inactivity during sleep, the regulation of our
J j temperature, are within the limits of health phenomena connected
I with this controlling power, or with the sympathetic nervous system.
| Within the domain of disease its afflictions are without end or number
I from the sympathetic or, often, the painful swelling of the milk gland
I (hardly to be regarded as a morbid action) to the condition of the blood
! vessels of the brain, which causes the dreaded seizures of epilepsy.
Mr. W. H. Harrison will visit Paris in a few days time to draw up
a history of “ The Rise and Progress of Spiritualism in France,”
to aid in which work several friends have kindly offered to give
j facilities.
Now, in the middle of the dead season, very little in connection
I with Spiritualism is going on in London, and several of the best
mediums are away from town. About the end of the month more
! activity will set in.
j Next Monday evening, at eight o’clock, Mr. C. J. Sneath will lecture
I at the Temperance Hall, Birmingham, on <c The Bible and Modern
| Spiritualism,” Mr. John P. Turner in the chair.
| i According to Democritus, truth lies at the bottom of a well, the
i depth of which, alas! gives but little hope of release. To be sure,
1 one advantage is derived from this, that the water serves for a mirror,
! in which truth may be reflected.' I have heard, however, that some
)! philosophers, in seeking for truth to pay homage to her, have seen
their own image and adored it instead.—Richter,
The City of Florence.—Many interesting seances in tfie early his¬
tory of Spiritualism took place in the fair city of Florence, once the
chief haunt of pleasure-hunters on the Continent. A correspondent of
the Boston Sunday Herald says that other places are now outrivalling it
( as centres of attraction, that it is burdened with an exceedingly heavy
j debt, that much of the trade of the place is in a rotten state, and that
I suicides and various kinds of crime are so common that they do not
( attract the attention which their horrible nature deserves.
Mysteries of the Mind.—The following psychological incident,
which was told to me by a gentleman of undoubted veracity, may
prove of interest to those of your readers who are studying the occult
phases of nervous phenomena. The narrator, a man of fine nervous
I organisation, was taking his afternoon siesta ; his daughter, a young
lady of seventeen, sitting by his side, with her hand in his, and
reading. As he passed from the wakeful state into the one of semi¬
slumber, he saw, or seemed to see, appear at the foot of his bed a tall
man, with a sorrowful expression upon his face, who, bending down
tenderly, lifted up a coffin and disappeared. He was so disturbed by
the vision, that after tossing restlessly for a few minutes, he opened his
eyes, and said, “ Daughter, I believe I cannot sleep to-day, and will
get up.” Looking up from her book, in which she was evidently
deeply absorbed, she said, “ Papa, this is a strange book I am reading.”
“ What is it ? ” said he. “ The Life of Marie Antoinette f she replied,
and then read from the pages before her a recital of the exact incident
i that had just constituted his dream.—Louisville Medical News.
120
THE SPIRITUALIST
Sept. 6, 1878.
CANON FARRAR ON THE DOCTRINE OF EVERLASTING- j ;
PERDITION. r.aiu ||
(Extracts from a Sermon 'preached in Westminster Abbey.) j (
What the popular notion of hell is, you, my brethren, are all aware, j (
Many of us were scared with it in our childhood. It is that the j j
moment a human being dies, at whatever age, under whatever dis- j )
advantages, his fate is sealed hopelessly, and for ever; and that, if he j (
die unrepented sin, that fate is a never-ending agony, amid physical | j
tortures the most frightful that can be imagined; so that, when we think i)
of the future of the human race, we must conceive of a vast and burn- [ (
ing prison in which the lost souls of millions writhe and shriek for ever, i S
tormented with a flame that never will be quenched. You have only to ! |
read the manuals—you have only to look at the pictures—of the Roman j (
Catholics on the one hand, and of Nonconformists on the other, to see i V
that such has been and is the common belief of Christendom  j)
I know nothing so calculated to make the whole soul revolt with loath- i (
ing from every doctrine of religion, as the easy complacency with which i j
some cheerfully accept the belief that they are living and moving in I}
the midst of millions doomed irreversibly to everlasting perdition. ^ j (•
If St. Paul again and again flings from him with a “ God forbid ” the i j
conclusions of an apparently irresistible logic, we, surely, who have no ] r
irresistible logic of any kind against us in this matter, but only, in j ’(
great part, spiritual selfishness and impenetrable tradition, do we not, in j)
the high name of the outraged conscience—of humanity—nay, in the |)
far higher name of the God who loves us, of, the Saviour who died for j (
us, of the Holy Spirit who enlightens us; do we not hurl from us repre- | >
sentations so cruel of a doctrine so horrible that every nerve and fibre j)
of our intellectual, moral, and spiritual life revolts at it ? Ignorance j (
may, if it will, make a fetish of such a doctrine; Pharisaism may write I j
it broad upon its philacteries ; hatred may inscribe it instead of holiness I)
to the Lord; instead of all the sacerdotalisrn in which it stimulates and i (
degrades the name of love; but here, in the presence of so many living, {|
and in this vast mausoleum of the glorious dead,—here, amid the !) j
silent memorials of the men of fame and the fathers who begat us, of j U
whom many, though not saints, were yet noble though erring men; j j
and whom, though they and we alike shall certainly suffer; and suffer I)
bitterly, both here and hereafter, the penalty of unrepented sin, we j (
cannot and will not think of as condemned to unutterable tortures by j)
irreversible decrees. I repudiate these crude and ghastly travesties of j)
the holy and awful will of God. I arraign them as mercilessly igno- j j |
rant. I impeach them as falsehood against Christ’s universal and abso- [)!
lute redemption. I denounce them as a blasphemy against God’s exceed- r j
ing and eternal love. More acceptable, I am very sure, than the j (j
rigidest and most uncompromising orthodoxy of all the Pharisees who j) j
have ever judged their brethren since time began—more acceptable by ]} I
far to Him who, on His cross, prayed for His murderers, and Who died j (j
that we might live—more acceptable, I say, than the delight which, 11 i
amid a deluge of ruin, hugs the plank on which itself alone is saved, j) j
would be the noble and trembling pity which made St. Paul declare him- j (j
self ready to be anathematised from Christ for the sake of his brethren— I \ i
which made Moses cry to God at Sinai, “ Oh, this people have sinned a | / j
great sin; yet, if thou wilt forgive their sin; and if not, blot me, I j (j
pra3r Thee, out of Thy book which Thou hast written.” j | j
But I would ask you to believe, my brethren, that I speak now not ]) j
with natural passion, but with most accurate theological precision, j (j
when I say that, though texts may be quoted which give prima facie j) \
plausibility to such modes of teaching, yet, to say nothing of the fact j) i
that the light and love which God Himself has kindled within us recoil j (j
from them, those texts are, in the first place, alien to the broad, unify- | ) j
ing principles of Scripture; that, in the next place, they are founded on || |
interpretations demonstrably groundless; and, in the next place, that, j (]
for every one so quoted, two can be adduced on the other side. There | ) j
is an old, sensible, admitted rule of theology—“ Theologia parabolica j )!
non est demonstrativa in other words, that phrases which belong to j (I
metaphor, to imagery, to poetry, to emotion, are not to be formulated j j |
into necessary dogmas, or crystallised into rigid creeds. If this rule be ! ) j
used to test them, nine-tenths of the phrases on which these views are i (j
built, fall utterly to the ground. But even were it otherwise, once more, j > j
in the name of Christian light and Christian liberty—once more, in the j /1
name of Christ’s promised Spirit, I protest against the ignorant I (|
tyranny of isolated texts, which has ever been the curse of Christian j {j
truth, the glory of narrow intellects, and the cause of the worst errors ] ) |
of the worst days of the most corrupted Church. Ignorance has ; (j
engraved texts upon her sword, and oppression has carved them upon i S j
her fetters, and cruelty has tied texts about her faggots; and ignorance j) |
again has set knowledge at defiance with texts woven on her flag. Gin- j (j
drinking has been defended out of Timothy, and slavery has made a I j j
stronghold of the Epistle to Philemon. The devil, you know, can quote j /1
Scripture for his purpose, and quoted texts against Christ Himself; |(|
and when St. Paul fought the great battle of Christian freedom against | > j
the curse of the law, he was anathematised with a whole Pentateuch of ||| j
texts. But, my brethren, we live under the dispensation of the Holy j||
Spirit, and our guide is the Scriptures of God in their broad outlines— ) i
the revelation of God in its glorious unity, the books of God in their ) i
eternal simplicity, read by the illumination of that Spirit of Christ (|
which dwelleth in us except we be reprobates. . . . You must take \ |
words and you must interpret words in their proper and historical sig- j) i
nificance, not in that sense which makes them convey to you a thousand | (i
notions which did not originally belong to them. Now, I ask you, my \ j j
brethren, very solemnly, where would be the popular teachings about j ) i
hell if we calmly and deliberately erased from our English Bibles the ! (i
three words “damnation,’’ “hell,” and “everlasting?” Yet I say !m
unhesitatingly—I say, claiming the fullest right to speak with the |) j
authority of knowledge—I say, with the calmest and most unflinching j (j
sense of responsibility—I say, standing here, in the sight of God and i > j
of my Saviour, and, it may be, of tho angels and spirit of the dead, that I)'!
not one of those words ought to stand any longer in our English Bibles,
and that being, in our present acceptation of them, simply mistransla¬
tions, they most unquestionably will not stand in the revised version of
the Bible if the revisers have understood their duty. ... I shake off
the hideous incubus of atrocious conceptions attached by false theology
to the doctrine of final retribution.
Mu. Colville recently gave a public trance lecture at Llaithwaite,
near Huddersfield, and a correspondent writes that it gave general
satisfaction to those present.
The Boston Sunday Herald says:—“A curious story comes from
Honesdale, Penn. A little girl who was fond of flowers had a favourite
fuchsia which she cared for assiduously. She recently died. When
taken sick the plant had forty buds just about bursting into bloom. The
flowers never came, for the plant withered, the buds dropped to the
ground, and on the day she died it was lifeless.”
Anti-Vivisection.—Mrs. Newton Crosland, of Lynton Lodge, Black-
heath, has written and printed a short poem “ in anticipation of the
bazaar to be held in the Pavilion, Brighton, in November next, in aid
of the funds of the International Association for the Total Suppression
of Vivisection, and in aid of the funds of the Anti-Vivisection Society.”
The following is an extract from her lines:—
® What if next it should be whisper’d ’mong the scientists who gloat
On the awful acts and suffering which they love to view and note,
That they want the human victim to complete their learned course,
And to track tho body’s secrets to their holy hidden source 1”
The Animal and Vegetable Kingdoms.— Lady Verney, in her
Sketches from Nature, says: “ We have an inveterate and extraordinary
belief rooted in us, that all nature was created with some reference to
ourselves; that all plants, birds, and beasts were intended for our
pleasure or the use of man. It is the conviction of a people dwelling
much in towns or on cultivated land, of an unimaginative race, self-
nurtured, proud, unsympathetic, who have so disciplined their horses
and their dogs, their tulips and their currant-bushes, that these have no
life independent from their masters—who recognise no existence beyond
themselves and their belongings. But a man who has lived much in
the woods and hillsides, alone, face to face with nature at any time,
becomes aware that he is only one of God’s creatures. When we turn
to the infinitely great and the infinitely small, to telescopic and micro¬
scopic wonders, we discover whole worlds, utterly independent and
unconscious of us and our requirements.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS..
L.—There is no evidence on record that the identical wooden and ivory
rings were examined there, unlinked, before the stance began, or that they
had not been left on the premises for some days.
Mr. J. H. Gledstanes, who has been travelling on the Continent, writes :—
“ I have been placing The Spb'itualist in most of the Grand Hotels in
Switzerland. At Berne, in the Bergerhof, I was pleased and surprised to
find that some one had been before me, as the number of:August 2nd was
quietly lying on the table in the reading room. I immediately placed that
of August 9th by its side, and I hope the other propagandist beheld it there.”
We quote this as a good example to the many readers of these pages now
travelling in Europe.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM,
By P. P. Alexander, M.A. ;
Author of Mill and Garlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writings
of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism,
fij Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer.”—Saturday Review,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price 3s. 6d. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma yon Yay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. 6d., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Sept. 6, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining tire author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Gd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHESINTHEPHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, E.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
BLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s,
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The fi Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ .
The Thinker. ,, V. „ . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . •
Death and the After-Life . . . •
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . •
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse.
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries'Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . ' . .
s. d.
. 15 0
.76
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
, 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 0
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
.6 0
.26
3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds . • . . . . . 6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen , 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 14-
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Transited into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. , . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D.,'LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Oollyer, M.D. . . 12
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .1
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North .
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . .18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description oj Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free la. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, ~W.C.
Or of Messrs. Oolby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions oe the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of 'a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that bis descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that wo acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Keens, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes/ F.R.S Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality In the
Bible — Augustine — Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Fender’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God—
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—^Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII The Message of Spiritualism—Old Reve
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life-
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections t&
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.'—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aacl the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot he had separately. Price,
carriage .'paid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s.
London; W. H. Harrison 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Price five shillings. Grown 8yo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new hook by
“ M.A. (OXON),’ ON
PSYCHOGRAPHY,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OP CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past; Guldenstubbe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psych
General Corroborative Evidence.
1. —That Attested by the Senses:—
St Of Sight,—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jenoken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidenee ,of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead,W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan,
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer,
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins); Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
Ill From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation ol
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J.
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writin c
within Slates securely screwed together—Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld,
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Proiessor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises In Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
modiumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place In public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Gxon) ”), and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumshipof
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond-r-The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakot—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship oi T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg—Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
mediumship of “M.A.,Oxon.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burxe—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.—The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By G. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxon."—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “ M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy In Relation to Spiritualism
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russe,
Wallace, F R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may he
obtained at- The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed^ information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably-recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ” or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious ago.’
IV
THE S PI HIT D ALI ST.
Sept. 6, 1878.
A
NEW ERA.
H
L
E
OW TO PREVENT. DISEASE AND PRE-
MATURE DEATH; CYf KATURAL MEANS 
OR!) BEAOQJ^SFIELD justly stated the other
day,that u the health of the people is really the foundation
upon whieHCall their happiness and power as a State depend.”
Bor the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
4feath sSe' a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
IJNO’S .. FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms of indigestion, use END’S FRUIT SAJLT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
NO’S jFRUIT S SALT.—V Amongst the many
andVaried medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps,*has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as' END'S ?FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some’year or so ago, this,, preparation, which is made
from'.ripe sound fruit, is now ihetwith in every quarter
, of the. globe. The great merit, whiqh is claimed for it is
•■'vthatnit keeps the bloo'd*pure and'the sj'stem .perfectly
9lear,”and> thus; takes jaway^the, grpundwofk' of'fnala-
; rlpus. diseases'so cOHtmon*to:stojyns. ahd districts which
areMllrnratned,. , There’is little doijbt put that the time
/■mlheventually;come when fevers ahd4diseases resulting
ftVjh^pois'Shgg/ blood ,will«becqnsidered as offences
A^insf the-Weli-heing of communities ah large; hut we
Villt, in *,ali,J)JobabiUty,ibe'' some*,‘while .yet before it
snalP'ha\v?aryivedia“sdch;ft‘pitQh'of? s^hjtary perfection.
'M;fShnwhiie,'‘iWp' ijfahnot Vlthholdi a?, welcbmei^to i any
speciflc whicnm^proveameans'of preserving, of rOstor-
iriShealth. Theairnplw. the better,.so long only as it is
effectual?51 ENDJ§,,FlFCUT; FALT .has beenfound an
excellent corrective ■to tfie’ digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India,' and. in' SdUtlf''Ainpfica, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by'far than “hips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over the world—it is recognised not only as a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.’’—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877.
WilAT EVERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
'NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
<< “Since I have used END’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make,tiffs
fa'ct well known.”
NO’S' FRUIT SALT. — A Lady writes v—
“ Everything, medicine or food, ceaSed to act properly fbr
at least three months before I commenced taking: it; the
little food I could, take generally punished me or returned.
1 life was onO of great suffering, so that I must/have
succumbed before long.” ■ ■
E
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
Q^NO’S FRUIT SALT,
GENERAL TAX ATI VE AND TONIC'
IS THE VARIOUS FORMS OR iSiuGESTIONi. . ‘ ;
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARE^'Fltd^I ijCJUND RIPE
dvac ERUIT. '
; AheFruit Salt^is one, oCNature’s own products.^Ihcphtains dll'?
the valuable saline coitStltuents of Ripe Fruit inii‘a;-portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
asrthe juioes dffruits frOmwhichltis obtained./» j, j .•
( In Pimples Cnd.Blotches on the Face, SallOwness.,of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations’ is’ its resemblance to fruit jn the natural way
in which it relieves the svstem of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and" its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at t haml when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one oFthe triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or,foreign climates it is invaluable,. It allays
nervous, excitement, and restores the nervous system,to its
propey condtti6ir (byimitur,al'means). In the Nursery ifeiS peyond ;
praj&K) i-ifi  '
^H END’S ' FRUIT f SALT
is particularly valuable^ i No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms, of,Fevers,
BIpodFoisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. • It' is, in truth, a
Family;Medicine Chest in the simplest-yet most potent ionht
Instead of being lowering to the system, .tins preparation is, in
the highest'degree!’ invigorating. Its effect, in reUpvfpgi thirst?
giving tone td?the.system, and aiding digestion,1s mo§t striking,. /
NO’S ^FRUIT • SALT- ^(one^fNalur6’s% jfwn'
prgductefjmepiftbe bloSd'PtteeraM is^hus’.ot.itsOlf’hhe^o^
the most valuable means of keeping the .blOodlftfee .from
fevers and .bloodyj)ois(fi\s, JiyefilcOmplaiiits;' &0:,"6ver
discovered. ■‘ As ;a .iftg’atis'sof. "jifffierving'tand ^ptqringT
health, it is unequfdled!;;Tajid itji, mpreoyef, ‘a .pleasafit,'
retreshing and-invigchatihg'h^Ora^e.',-’ '‘After.’ a ’.patient?
and.careful,.observatipriSof its .effeetSj'iyhen.useci, Xiiave
no hesitation in stating that if ifs great vdlue 'in; keeping’
the body hbAltJwefefhniyefsally knofrti^not’.-a'hbuSe-
holUJ,in/fhq 47an(ij?wdUld-'_bej,3vitnoUt| it,. npiiUTsingle
travelltaatrunk or portmanteau hut'‘wourd3bnfam iti—
d,e. eroT » . igm,: „. Wmfflm. '
E
EN02S’^RUIT?SAET*.^ii,I;aiiu,very mubH
Witji your FRUIT SALTA .1 have fully proved its j^eatl
efficacy 1^ its; having entirely 'cuted me of iffdigestlonF—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-foUafCahterbUry.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.-^BALPTTA<riON,- iOE?
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangemehtandlndigeg^
* , tion; frequently called (or.mistaken,.fqr),Heatt'Biteasq,:r—
“ On April 141 purchased a bottlh'ofyourFRUI'ra AUF;
not feeling very Well at the time,” and it had an effect‘that
1 never anticipated when I bought its! I had suffered mrard
crless, since the yem 1841, from palpitation'offtheheart,-
. x,y ohtvery badly during the last few yeairs. ■ The least thing
i... would produce it during the day, and at nighf.my sleep
• jn* a was very much disturbed. Strangfe’to'say, after’thfe nrsi
’-Tjjv'dose of FRUIT. SALT, the dangerous,' annoying, and>
f- af-truly disagreeable,!symptoms of palpitation, suddenly;,
a *ceased, and have not since returned. ■ Outof gratitude for
F .’tvthe benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
, F t° all my friends; both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to’ state the above facts, of.
‘ -.which you’ can make whatever use you please. —I am,
m'g* ~ dear sir, yoursrespedtfaily, : !”',“W. B. Beckett,” ^,
PAugvSO, 1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
eAUTION.—Ekafoiiieyieach sBottle and see the:
Capsule’is'miarked'-" ‘f ENO’S FRtiliFSALT.” Without it
you have beeib imposed oh Jby/ a wbf'thlfegs imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit SAi/iyFruit Saline, <)rFruit Fowder, t
? ■ Sold by all Chemists,:;. Price’2sfOdy an<|. 4s. 6d. ;
Sole Agent for Paris~ PHARMACIE UDE BERAL. it,? RUE DE
LA : PAIX. i
' 1' Jlist Pjiihlished,
Price Seven Shillings and.Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
T HE LAZY LAYS
AND P R 0'S E IMAGININGS,
• BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and'Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
Contents.,
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the .Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle.—5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shaeahac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a; gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride.’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer,—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Songof the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-iewegung, —17. “Poor Old
JdeT”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love- Song.—21.' A Vision.—:22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angeljof Silence.,: - g
Apart 2.—2%e Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejam.
« 24.i The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s .HccepUpmatFolke-
stbne.—26. The Rifle'.Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.-^FThe July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
From The Morning _ Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says:—“.Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to he rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
.restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity:.. . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adyehtures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. . ..
The'book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will mot detract.” The Morning
Post says of The WobotejW&TBallads.—“ No; one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “ with an appreciably successful result."
From The Court Journal. ■*. . .
- “All areof mqrkqd ability,'. .(.;Oscasioffailygv&flndVerse.’0f-
great behu'tyf showing that the authof poiiSSSes ’tne pure poetic
gift.’’ - w * *•> *• ’ ■> *
I | , - From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate .genuine, unforced humour. should
notJail topes.A,The iAgzy: Lays jandJProse Jfmqmmgy. Written,
printed, pqMghed and*reviewed ^y William HJHanpson (3$, Great
RusselI-stfeet)7’I,Botn the verses and; the short’essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquanpy to the fun. The Lay,of the Newspaper Editor
is capital; ufather'severe, and so is The La)/of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to he photographed.”
From Public Opinion,
“ A volume of remarkably good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or flfteenyears ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu-
rate,scientific inind like his can make jokes with success.,.. To
all who wish tojread a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-DOokfwe commend The Lazy Lays."
n ( <? . • ; > ^i Prora. The Bookseller. t
- “.An odd huFmost entertaining assortment .’ of quaint and
humorous fancies* SOme in verse and others in prose; and all
written.with'*a4flueflt and not ungfdceful' pen. ;The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine",’fi’cnf land original, and
not at aU ill-natured.’’
From Nature.
“..Scientific men and matters are In one or two cases,alluded to,
and the imprint hears that the work is published'* a.d. 1877
(populai;chronology); a.m. .6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 60,800j077
(Huxley)"^ We belieVe" that our readersvmay derive a little
amusement,'from a perusal pf the volume.” \
From The British Journal gf Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others’in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent.... The Lazf 'Lp/ys will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour:.: . They con-
■ tain nothing unrefined or in badTastO.”
{ From The Dublin University Magazine,
How Hadji'Ai-Sha*cflba8,'ari amiable Turk; 'vyas photographed,
is well done?, .;?Bop,nd.in a cover pfRomewhat powerful design.”
- tr ■',? EvoTn..The.Photographic News.
“jfr.FVVH. Harrison, a, gentlgmTan’whose name is familiar iff?
conhectrofLWitliPphOtOgrapnic and othhrscientific literature) has -
eOfisiderable'facility^of, versihcation,' and* dJals, in- pleasant' and
h'ufiiOTofis'TniOodSyvitli’rmahy^scientiflc 'follies which are better
laugheffidotehthahgravfeljf disputed;” .
.v*;I jyf tA'JPip^a. Tni(Scotsman.:-;, x :
I*JjIn'*Mr.5i'5r».HFHirriibh’S;'Ahzj; Lays^and.Prosk. Imagining^
’theft is & gooa deM oPhtSa’d’humour adus^tific1 poteeiywitn a' due
fffinfdtftlbn-df'Sdlid'Sbnse?’'' -
- ’ hqtoi*’, ■ ‘r^EieAi0W,Bxadihvp‘ Ddily CKronicle*> j
-‘tGodd^pbetioal (JietiohirfdispiayedTSMr-i-Harrison-has produced1
almost-weledhie hook:. i4»Hcew;jIladj4fal,Sliacftba;o Mas^PKoto-i
g'rapliedj’.'wiU be^gurp to make OTery.readerroar3withdaughter?”>j
i . Pxc^The DundecDaflyiAdMrppfVi^ / .
■;“iWil;h.sdcnh,;fte^and easy''a4tiiqrfit'is',n&,tnraflyii£6 IMf&fteofea
J that' His subjects;should•Ueftr some tracS' of this 'peeuifef’icliOsyn-
cfasj?,^aifd dftdWdfftey 4®aitofeo 'dhdi^^y’as-niTnseif.'';. i The
po|ms ,a'](:etaiiD^iaraef;erise'dVby':Sinpothness and rhyth'micai swiiig.
.X-V:The,w6rI:?js *i%rJf‘eirfB3rately‘t^)fiiid,Itti'elpBii add 'gilfi '.;??A ’
^Ofg'effif's'de’Sito'uhoiftth'^byeij.'-’F.' vJf oifftreaders wish to” en| •
Courage.lazineSs'tlieyfhay^.a'iiiostdaeservliig' object’ in' ar very
creWraiidwEcSatile1inemBjei'Kef‘ffie OrderS’-1 ”7- M>: K
oi if Prova.^ThetLivtypooTDaily Courier.
In his handSbmeiy KfS^hd Sdatgriffin-gUarded Lazy Lays, Mri
WilliahrlI'?Harri'sofffprOVideS.Ry*gifPhhbk^egant- in1 its appear^
ance an/heptertainitig inJt^cbgteritsTi'?. Tire author is imbued
with.tne true’Spirit,’of humoui^ldnd’ Rmus'ef alFwliile' offendihg
riotie.”.'*W"' * *’• • i -V
r—^ Fromig'hefV^est^nn-Daily Press (Bristol).-,
“A volume froiffi^UievCTsafllefpeii of. Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
. tveH^kiinwii ehntitTiWnf'tirnTe’T.'oiTdtm—aTrd'ptovineial press;and
ieAiXoitV: OtfThe'’Sxbiiiituulist.. ]. 8 Many of the (humonous'poems re-,
mind us'of Xhelilmtastby-Legends. Th'e'Laifof the 'Phbtographpr 'i
The LxPfof' th£xtfamafars, and some t>f <Tlte Wobblejdw Ballads
wOuldhot have been'uriworthyhf Barham himself,;' Some of (he!
shottet poems are exquisite, and there, pervade the whole a reli-5
: gious sentiment and poetic feeling wliich will make them.accept-
abletcf most readers?’ ’ ^ ■v. •?’.
nf.f From the daily .Nofjhern }Vhig (Belfast)p 4
“ The finest thirig in .the book ’is* • How Hadji AFShaSabac. was
Photographed,’ It^is'an’ddniirahleiadditlon toVour not' tootex-'
tensive coffiid' UteratiS’eriVTlfe story,. is'(one of wliien extracts
would not give‘ah*ftdqqfidte;4dea; it-'IS’intensely huhioronS?}?.
Those who wisKto.dbtairt a h’andsofne'. gift-ho'ok; of an amusing
hature,"wij)tfinftTThatthey want,in 2^6 -Says.”- . .
i From The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious .collection of verses, and prose essays of unequal
merit;... The serious and sentimental verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington Nefws.'
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always" original, sometimes sferious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It iSjin itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively/, imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may ho read many times over... The get-up of the bbok is
very handsome.” ' “
. From The Folkestope_News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.”' XN.B. An
irate member cf the Town 'Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw, Ballads," but the members assembled, laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business: The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “It contains some very’choice poems
and prose essays;jshound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover”;
‘Obtainable, price 7S. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OR 1
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemiitry' at Edinburgh University, -
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post'free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in; half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS. 1’
I CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process* for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
■ and Gesture—Effectof Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
‘Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; o
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful. Ad vantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources Of Error—Medical Intuition-r-Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies’ and Antipathies—Existence‘of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects; through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Re trovision—-Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—^Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting*Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities’of Speech'and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—^Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism. Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its': Results—The Impressible State—
; Control Exetcised by the Operator—Gating—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance 'of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject iriust beStudied. *, h' i« *• jf|M|
CHAPTER VII:—Trahcej Natural,and Accidental; Mesmeric—
TrAndfe Produced at Wmbythe Subjects—Col.T'ownsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticshbtall.Imposters-^LuminousEmanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Caliagn’et’s Extatics—Visions of the S liritual
World.
CHAPTER'VIII: Phren&Mesijierism—Progre® of Phrenology—
Effects of Touching the Head-in’the Sleep—Variety ih the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympatiiy—There AfehCases in which theSe Act,
and others in which they a6 belt Act—Phefioffiena Described—The
.Lower Animals Susceptible tof. Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sylnpathy , of'Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on'It. * , ... i*;,;'
• CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals,'efc., on theHuman
Frame—ReSfearcheS of Retchenbach—His Odyle; h Identical with the
Mesm’eric FtUid of MeSmer_qr ydth the Influence which Causes the
, Mesmeric Phenomena—-Odyliu or 'Mesmeric Liglit—Aurora Borealis
Artificially ProduCed-p-Mesmerised WaterP-Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsyslological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divinationf Witchcratt,’etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced‘to NaturaDCauses—'AppaMtrons.— Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER, X An Explarfatiop of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably tlfe Medium of* Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties.of, the Sub'ect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam)
buiisiff—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylie Emanations—Odjhc'TD^ces followed Up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic'and'Witchoraft-TThe Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walltiftg Olalrvoyaftce—UbiversUl-Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
theFuture.’ ’ "X;''
\ CHAPTER XKr'-Iriterest'Felt’ in Mesmerism by Men of Scienc
—Due Lhuite.of/Scientifici Caution—Practical Hints—Gonditions of
Success in Experim’eiftSr-rCfcse of Eailurgh-Mesmerisfn a Serious
Thing—Cautibns’t'(f be*STifli'entXLOpposition to be Expected.
gt CHAPTER■'XII-J^-Eheilorhena '.Observed in the Conscious or
Waking'State—EffCcts of Suggestion‘on Persons in an Impressible
State-fMr.’L'ewisiSiFtoerhiients With .and. Without Suggestion—
Cases-j-Dr.’Darlffig’s' ExpCTinfents (—Cakes — Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance/ProdUcfTd W Passes,' or by Concentration—Major
Buelfley’s‘Methoa —Cas'e^The'Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lueirlity,-when<(>aked'afc-Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian'Mfigib.”' , ,
'* CHAPTER, XIII:—Production df the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight •out'of 'Nihe Persons Recently Tried .by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep;Produ'6ed without the Knowledge of th
Sulijeet-jSuggestiou in;:thefSleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in -the Sleep
-^Sympathic'Clairvoyance.jh:tlie Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—CaSeshRir J'Eranklin.f.MajOr Buckley’s Case of Retrovisioh.
:* CHAPTER XIV ^Direct 'Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair-
voyanc'eF.CasosX-Smgqlar,Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Cle/fig-
inafi?wiUtT3asesAciaiTY6yabfce of Alexis—Other Cases.
CIIAPTER XV'prance — Extaais — Cases—Spontaneous Me?-
meiac Iffienomeiia^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER, XVI :—Ciirative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Reiharks, and Summary. • ’
TiandonrT .’WiO; 'Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed ibr .the Proprietor by BeverIdge & Co,, at the
_ Holborn Prmting-'Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
# iff the Parish of St. Andrew-aboye-Bar and' St. George
the • Martyr, London, and published by E. W Allen; Ave
Maria'-laile, London, E.C. ‘
