Rhgistbbbd is a Nbwspapbb.
S>ff) JOUf{K®I< 0^ ^^YdSO^OGUCS^ ^dl^]Sfd^.
toit| SpritiiHlism m €nat
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi,Via Della Maltonaia. ROME:
Signor Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE : 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly and Co. NEW YORK:
51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “ Banner of Light ” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. SAN FRAN¬
CISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON : No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 354.—(Vol. XIV.—No. 23.) LONDON : FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 1879. Published. Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Revelations by Mesmerism .. ..   .. 265
Dr. Slade’s Spirits and Australian Burglars. By E. Cyril
Haviland  265
A Terrible Spectre  ' 266
Movements of the Dry Bones 267
Spirit Identity  268
Correspondence—“ A Visitor,” 268; A Curious Seance,
268 ; “A Miserable Superstition,” 268; “Who
Wrote Shakespeare’s Plays ? ” 268
The Brahmo Somaj  269
Memory in Old Age. By Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S. .. 270
The Theosophical Society and its Aims. By Col. H. S.
Olcott  - 270
Paragraphs—Financial, 265 ; Contributions towards the
Folk-Lore of Cornwall, 268 ; Mr. Martheze’s Voyage
Round the World, 270; Dr. Slade in America, 270 ;
Dreaming the Derby Winner, 270; Is it True ? 276 ; A
Case of Trance   276
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER :
A. Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics
of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
OFFICE HOURS.
The Offices of the Association are open between the hours
of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except Sat¬
urday, when they are open between the hours of 2 p.m. and
6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR JUNE.
Friday, 6th, and each succeeding Friday.—Experimental
Research Committee at 6.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 10<&.—Soirde Committee at 5.30 p.m.
,, ,, Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
,, ,, Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Monday, \6th.—Fobtnightlt Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Last of the Season. Paper, “ Review of the
Session.” By the Rev. W. Stainton Moses
M.A.
Friday, 20J7t.—Library Committee at 6 p.m.
C. A. BURKE, Secretary,
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated
Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries throughout
the Globe ; it also has an influential body of readers on the
Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading
and more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in
the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among
those who have published their names in connection with their
communications in its columns are Mr. C. F.Varley, C.E., F.R.S.;
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal
of Science ” (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but has,
up to the present time, expressed no decided opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, President of the Biological Sec¬
tion of the British Association for the Advancement of Science
(1876) ; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the
Right Hon. the Countess of Caithness ; His Imperial Highness
Nicholas of Russia (Duke of Leuchtenherg) ; Mr. H. G. Atkin¬
son, F.G.S. ; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen
(formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples); Baron
Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald Massey; Le Comte
de Bullet; the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly American
Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Parkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psycholo¬
gical Society of Great Britain ; Mr. Alexander Calder, Presi¬
dent of the British National Association of Spiritualists; the
Rev. J. Tyerman (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.);
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George
Wyld; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksa-
kof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order
of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay
(Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Soi., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C, Luxmoore ; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B,
(India); Mrs. Honeywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr.
Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George Stock, B.A. (Oxon);
Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian
Reimers; Mr. William White (author of the “Life of Sweden¬
borg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D. ; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”;Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S-A.;
Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S. ; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M. ; Mr. C. Con¬
stant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nos worthy; Mi-. William Oxley;
Miss Kiflingbury ; Miss A.'Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers ;
Mr. J. N. T. Mathese; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr.
W. Lindsay Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other
ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom,
10s. lOd.; in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris : Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig : 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence : Signor G. Parisi,
Via Della Maltonia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples; British Re .ding Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russel-street. Shanghai : Messrs. Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal
Office. Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Keamey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington : No. 1010, Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualis
should he addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 38, Great RusseU-street, London, W.C.
OFFICES—6, Akebman Road, Bbixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books
on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., See.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF IN¬
QUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM
Quebec Hale, 25, Gbeat Quebec Stbeet,
Marylebone Road, London, close to Baker Street Station.
A FLORAL DISPLAY AND SALE OF USEFUL AND
FANCY ARTICLES
Will be held, 21. F., in the above Hall,
On Wednesday and Thursday, June 187A and 19£A,
Under the kind patronage and assistance of Mrs. Fitz¬
Gerald, Mrs, Schweizer, Mrs. A. Maltby, Miss Dickson, Mrs.
Hallock, Mrs. Carshore, Mrs. Slater, Mrs. Fletcher, and other
ladies.
The object being to clear off a small standing debt, also
to assist the members in improving the accommodation of
the Hall, and in spreading a knowledge of Truth.
Gifts of any form, in money or articles, will be gladly re¬
ceived by any of the Ladies, or J. M. Dale, 60, Crawford Street,
Bryanstone Square, W., who will also furnish any further
information desired.
Open each day from 12 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission six¬
pence.
British museum lectures.—Dr.
Caeteb Blake will LECTURE in the Galleries of Natural
History and Antiquities, on Tuesday, May 27; Thursday, May
29; Tuesday, June 3; and Thursday, June 6, from 11 to 1 o’clock.
Tickets 2s. 6d. each Lecture, or 7s. 6d. for the Course.
Address Dr. Cabteb Blake, 28, East Street, Queen’s Square,
W.C.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the
city, by an English brother. The apartments can only ac¬
commodate four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3
per week each; or, for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two
occupy one room. Address, S.T., care of M. A. Mallett, 3,
Rue de la Cossonerie, Paris.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr.
Elmer, St. James’* street; and Mr. Boughton, St.George’s-rd.
A SELECT CIRCLE, holding Stances for
physical manifestations once a week, requires a few
more members—especially ladies. For particulars, apply to
R. S. T., care of Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell-atreet, W.C.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
Peesidbnt—Mb. Sebjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro*
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent,
that move and direct the material mechanism of man. Com*
munications as to alleged phenomena are invited by the
Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings with¬
out subscribing to or recognising any particular theory or
belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 0d. Tbubneb & Co. London.
Cloth, small Svo., price 3s.
OTHER*WGRLD ORDERS
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use in the
divine economy for all varieties of men and women; and
that there is not any one, however perverse or insignificant,
who is not created for some function in universal humanity.
As to the question of everlasting punishment, Mr. White
maintains an original position. If asked whether he believes
in the everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers. Yes; but
if asked'whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he answers.
No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish which exist
as to the future life arise from the constant assumption that
the everlasting punishment of sin is identical with the ever¬
lasting existence of sinners. Sin or transgression has been,
is, and ever will be eternally punished; torment and misery
are everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing; and pre¬
cisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner or
later, cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility of
everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
RAPHAEL'S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions
of events and the weather for every month, &c., &c., with a
large hieroglyphic. Post iree, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lanca¬
shire quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the
British armaments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by
which any person may calculate their own nativity. Clotiti
gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Annali hello spiritismo in
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filatete.
Published on the 16th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly
Journal devoted to the investigation of the unexplained
phenomena of psychic life. Edited by Albxandbe Aksakop,
and contributed to by several German and foreign men of
science. Price Is. monthly.—Leipsie: Oswald Mutze.
London : The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 till 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSOROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 6, 1879,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Pbesident.
Alex. Calder, Esq.. 1. Hereford-square, South Kensington,
S.W.
Vice-Pbesidents.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Eitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond Gr., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-
buildings, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa. Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13,
Alexandra-road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park,
W.
ConrciL.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., 'Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S.. Yale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H.,94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thus., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road,
Blackheath, S.E. •
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 5, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 69, Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. &., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton, S.W.
G1 endinning. A., Grove-road, New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square,
W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lampart-hall, Northampton.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool. .
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower street, W.C.
March, R. A., Heaton Villas, 71, Greenwood road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond road, Dalston.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree terrace, Uttoxeter road.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish road, Blundel Sands, near
Liverpool.
Pearce, Richard, Lanarth House, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.
Pearson, 0., 16, Harpur street, Bloomsbury. W.C.
Pickersgill, W.C., 3, Blandford square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 47, Momington road. Regent’s park.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8, Museum Villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolf crescent, Maida vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Ann street, Cavendish
square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds. -
Wilson,, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1,
Hereford Square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Honobaby Treasubeb.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford square, South Kensington,
S.W.
Auditobs.
J. W. Grayf Esq. G, H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobold, Esq.
Secbetaby. ' .1
Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
Hohobaby or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburgh, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjC,
Capoussou, Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at
Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach,
Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Gueldenstubb, 29, Rue deTrevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexander Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburgh.
The Baron von Dirchinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammontoh, Atlantic Co., New Jersey,
U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-
Mer.-
Boboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude, Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 46, Drummond-street, Carlton,
Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr.-Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.:
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg
University, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Komerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W.H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, South Melbourne,
Victoria, Austra ia.
M. Leymarie, 6, Reu Neuve, des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy,
1, Paris,
Epes Sergent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 106, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New
Y6rk, U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre, Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Phila¬
delphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de
1’Europe, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck,
Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue de Palais, 137, Schaerbeck, Lex-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cavuga Co., New York,
U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel del’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-
square, London, N.W.
Captam R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul,' Trieste,
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-hill,
Croydon.
IsaacB. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah,U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eporjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 64, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaje,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr, J. H., Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near
Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Berks T. Huchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavillion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H, J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York.
T. Blyton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fitz,
121, Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Fraces,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Bnxton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pestb. Secretary, M.
Anton Prochaszka, Josefstaadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse,
23, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquiries into Spiritualism. Hon.
Secretary, T. Blyton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston-
lane, Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.—Mr. A. J. Smart, 22,
Moira-place—Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola Cerventes, 34, 28, Madrid.
President—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad Espirita Central de la Republica Maxicana. Presi¬
dent—Senor Refugio T Gonzalez, 7, Calle .de Almedo,
Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Columbia, South America.
President—Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred menibers,
has public offices, a reading room and library, with a secre¬
tary in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries.
Seances can be attended by recommendation from a member.
For terms, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Price 6s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
« POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of Truth
—III. The Embarkation—IV, Kepler’s Vision—V. Love
and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII. The Burial of
Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda —IX. The
Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope for
the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The Eagle of
Freedon—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI. Little Johnny—XVII.
“Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX
“ I still Live”—XX. Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”
—XXIII. Words o’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
prophecy of V ala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle
or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The
Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price
6s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.O., Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spir it
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; Post free for lid,; or six copies post free for
6d.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 6. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
6, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON
’jl/f'DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
i-T-L At home from 12 till 6 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses in
London or the provinces. Address, 92, Caroline St., Notting¬
ham.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and
Healing Medium. Any form of Mediumship deve-
1 oped. Ladies and children healed by Mesmerism. Terms
according to circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from
1 p.m. to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Frank¬
lin, gives seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-
square, from 2 to 5, every day except Sunday, and every
evening from 8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engage¬
ments can be made by letter sent to the above address.
Characters faithfully deline¬
ated from Handwriting, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
Curative mesmerism.—professor
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients, and may be consulted daily
from 2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons m the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address j 21, Trafalgar-
streetjjAshtqn-undcr-Lynq. - \
MISS A. -HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
Clairvoyants and healing medium.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair; sex and age re¬
quired. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism, Specialities.
At home from 12 till 6 p.m. Patients treated at their homes
when desired. 99, Park-street, Grosvenor-square,London, W.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE Com¬
pared WITH MODERN SPITITUALISM.
?•' A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unohristiau and unscriptnral. It
shows (we think successfully) that every form of medium-
ship, now so familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical
records of identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2, fid. each. The
two bound in one, Is.—These books, 'consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrow¬
ing parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
mHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the oldest
I journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac
B. Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor; aided by
a large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical, and seientino subjects j editorial department:
spirit message department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &o. &c. Terms of subscription, in ad¬
vance, 16s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, Loudon, W.C.
FOLKESTONE.—Comfortable Lodgings on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualist 3 can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
No. 354.—Volujvie Fourteen; Nujviber Twejsty-tht\ee.
LONDON", FRIDA. Y, JUNK 6tli, 1879.
REVELATIONS BY MESMERISM.
The new book. Spirits Before our Eyes, closes with an
argumentative chapter based upon a number of curious
experimental illustrations, to the effect that those future in¬
vestigations which will yield most fruit in disclosing the
nature of spiritual phenomena, will be founded upon a par¬
ticular class of experiments with mesmeric sensitives. The
argument is that those who are trying to produce spiritual
phenomena directly by will-power, will meet with but partial
success, but evidence is brought forward that the spirits of
mesmeric sensitives can be readily made by mesmerists to
travel hither and thither at will, and to produce results at
a distant place, if a suitable “ medium ” be there placed. The
entranced body of the sensitive is able to tell the mesmerists
of the success or failure of his attempts to manifest, and the
causes thereof; hence, in cases of failure, information can be
obtained from “ both ends of the line,” which is impossible
when none but departed ” spirits are at work.
A plausible case is made out that by this method the spirits
of living mortals can produce all the ordinary manifestations
of modern Spiritualism, and at the same time the most con¬
clusive evidence is given that some of the present phenomena
are undoubtedly produced by the spirits of the so-called
“dead.”
If the spirit of somebody known to the investigators can
be set to work to try to produce manifestations through a
medium in another place, and can tell through his mesmerised
body the causes of all his successes and of all his failures, it
information all the
before long be laid bare.
without re-
the older
is clear that with this method of gaining
secrets of spirit communion will ^
No great advance can be made in Spiritualism
examining, by the light of present knowledge,
phenomena of mesmerism, and competent and critical men
should undertake the work. Why does not the Psycho¬
logical Society desist a little from discussion, and do more
in the way of experiment, thereby doing battle for its right
to live ?
The Marylebone Association of Spiritualists will shortly have a floral dis¬
play and sale of fancy articles to clear off a debt connected with keeping up
a permanent agitation in their district on the subject of Spiritualism. The
Association, therefore, deserves to be moderately supported. Mr. J. M.
Dale, of 50, Crawford-street, London, W., is one of the most active workers
in the matter.
The daily newspapers have to write down to the level of the average
public, but it is to be regretted that some of the underlings engaged on
them have such a low sense of honour. The Sussex Daily News, of May
12th, quotes our list of printers’ errors in Mr. Miall’s paper, but suppresses
our prefix that they were due to the haste caused by the printing office
having been burnt down. A suppressio vert of this kind would not be
tolerated for a moment even, in a section of society in which a contemptibly
low sense of right and wrong prevails. The same paragraph and the same
withholding of the truth occurs in the Northei'n Evening Express (New¬
castle), May 12th last.
Financial.—In consequence of the recent raid upon The Spiritualist
newspaper, because it called attention to fourteen official actions subversive
of the public interests, the National Association of Spiritualists has lost, to
begin with, £26 in rental, instead of gaining the increase officially prognos¬
ticated as the result of the action, by the General Purposes Committee.
Next it has lost say £50 a year from former members it has thereby driven
out of the Association, or otherwise alienated; probably Mr. Martin Smith’s
various generous contributions averaged by themselves nearly the estimated
£50 a year. Next it has incurred a dead loss of £36 a year by transferring
its advertisements to an almost unknown journal, and attempting to make
a circulation for the journal at the cost of the Association. Messrs. E. D.
Rogers and E. T. Bennett were present on the Committee which inaugurated
this step, at two sittings attended each by four persons only, and Mr.
Blyton might be asked whether the aforesaia two members have a personal
commercial interest in the said journal. This method of spending the funds
of the Association is giving strong offence to those members who are friends
of The Spiritualist, and whose subscriptions are being used as just
stated, so several of them tell us that they intend to quit the Association at
the end of the year. All this is the enect of leaving the management of
the Association in the hands of twelve or fifteen "working” members,
four-fifths of whom have rendered no public services to Spiritualism, and
are unknown to Spiritualists at large.
I DR. SLADE’S SPIRITS AND AUSTRALIAN BURGLARS*
BY E. CYBIX, HAVIIiAUD.
One night, at my bouse. Dr. Slade proposed a stance
between ourselves, and we sat down to a common dining
table. After receiving messages on tbe slate both below and
above tbe table-top, an impression came upon me to apply
tbe following test :—X bad a small folding photographic
album, bolding four portraits in my pocket; X took it out of
my pocket and threw it open on tbe floor at tbe extreme end
I of the table, and entirely out of reach of any one of us. I then
took Mrs. Robson’s band in mine (Dr. Slade’s two bands and
one of ours being on top of tbe table all tbe time), and hold-
! ing her right hand just under tbe ledge, I said, “ Jessie (that
is my late wife) will take a photograph out of that album
and give it to us.” Hardly balf-a-minute elapsed when we
felt it put between our joined fingers, and X picked tbe case
up, minus tbe one we held. Again, X replaced it, and this
time fastening tbe book up, threw it back, and said, “ Now she
will take tbe same one and leave tbe book as I fastened it.”
i) j Immediately it was done, we held tbe photograph, and tbe
in book was less that one, and was fastened as I bad left it.
j) j Dr. Slade was staying with me—that is, passing bis even-
I (| ings out at Five Dock—and about a week or ten daysbefore bis
|> departure we were all sitting round chatting, wben be was
1 (j suddenly entranced or controlled by a spirit, wbo proceeded
| >| to speak as follows, addressing me :—
“ You, we know, will take warning wben. it is given to yon,
|) \ and tbat is one reason wby we bave come. If others would
j(j heed us, and not treat us with such contempt, we would warn
!) I them in tbe same way, but what we bave come to tell you
j(j is this. Some men—there are several of them—are planning
j > j to break into this bouse, because they saw jewellery about you
| (| all wben you got out of tbe train at Ashfleld. Tbe descrip-
|) | tion of tbe two men wbo are going to try to do it, is this—
ij one is shorter than tbe other. The short man has a grey
j)j beard and hair, slightly curly, and wears moleskin trousers
|( j and a dark coat, and the taller one has black hair and beard
Ijl and has lost part of one of bis little fingers. We do not know
|(j their names, or where they live, but they often go past tbe
\)\ bouse where your wife left earth, because she has pointed
Rj that place out to us. Now you make ready for them; they
m perhaps will try to poison your dogs.”
Tbe next morning I, at once, went to Mr. Fosberry, the
IJ j inspector of police, and informed him. He asked me several
| j | questions, and I told him I bad received my information from
j)| the spirits. Then said lie, "I should treat it with utter
K contempt; lean do nothing for you.” I had expected as
jjl much, and only told him as a sort of evidence of the truth.
IJ j I then went to several Sydney friends, and on their promise
j( | to keep it quiet, repeated all I knew.
Some five nights afterwards we went to a friend* s at
K j Enfield, and did not reach home until 12.45 a.m.; coming in
j j | my gate I fired a revolver to let my man know I was home.
Kj When he came out he said all had been quiet, except the
i) barking of the dogs once or twice, and we went inside. I
Kj looked round the house, and found all just as I had left it,
|j| but, on returning to the dining-room, Dr. Slade was again
j!j controlled by the same spirit, who told me to "go and look
j j j at the door leading into my room off the verandah; the grey-
| j | haired man has been there with a sharp chisel-like instrument,
!)| but he was awfully nervous, because he has not done these
| J i things before. He had with him a brown slut to keep your
| S | dogs quiet, and he had only just commenced when you fired
I (| your revolver at the gate; that frightened him so that he has
Ij run away as hard as he can into the bush.”
We all went to look, and there, on the door to this day, ar
the marks of the chisel, where he was forcing it by the loci
* From Spirits and their Friends, by E. C. Haviland. (Sydney, Turner and Hendersc
1879.)
266
THE S£IB,ITtTALIST.
June 6, 1879.
The next morning I picked up a square of black net, evidently j)
intended for use as a face-covering by him. Further than j;
this, the slut was seen round the place with a string round her j j
throat, and we, fearing to frighten the maids unnecessarily, | (
forebore from asking them questions. However, a few days j (
back, one of them casually mentioned “ burglars ” to Mrs. j j
Hobson, and then proceeded to tell her—“ You know, ma’am, I (
the night you were at Enfield; well, the laundress was sleep- j)
ing here that night, and, about half-past twelve, she woke us, | (
saying someone was trying to get into Mr. Haviland’s room, I)
and we laid still to listen, when we heard a pistol shot, K
and then heavy footsteps running along the verandah, and !j
away, as hard as they could go.” j (
I, myself, have seen the two men together on the Five !;
Dock Hoad, and am only heartily sorry that I have not visible j j
proof to offer my readers in the shape of their persons as j j
prisoners. But I have stated simple facts, and I do so gladly, | (
in the hope that it will prevent people from rashly jeering at | j
a subject of which they know next to nothing. j (
A TERRIBLE SPECTRE. |!
The following relation has been given in the foreign and | j
some of our own journals, with strong marks of authenticity, j)
and may be considered, perhaps, the most extraordinary of j.(
its class anywhere to be found:— !;
“ Professor Koempfer, of the TJniversityof Strasburg, in the | (
former part of his life resided at Frankfort-on-the-Maine, j)
where he exercised the profession of a physician. One day j (
being invited to dine with a party of gentlemen after !)
dinner, as is the custom in Glermany, coffee was brought in ; j j
an animated conversation commenced, various subjects were j;
introduced, and at length the discourse turned upon appari- i j
tions, &c. Koempfer was amongst those who strenuously ])
combated the idea of supernatural visitations as preposterous j \
and absurd in the highest degree. A gentleman, who was a i /
captain in the army, with equal zeal supported the opposite | (
side of the question. j)
“ The question was long and warmly contended, both being | \
men of superior talents, till in the end the attention of the I)
whole company was engrossed by the dispute. At length K
the captain proposed to Koempfer to accompany him that i)
evening to his country house, where, if he did not convince j S
him of supernatural agency, he would then allow himself in ;)
the estimation of the present company, to whom he appealed i J
as judges of the controversy, to be defeated. The professor, | (
with a laugh, instantly consented to the proposal, if the !(
captain, on his honour, would promise that no trick should i /
be played off upon him : the captain readily gave his word |)
and honour that no imposition or trick should be resorted to, |(
and here for the present the matter rested. Wine and n
tobacco circulated briskly, and the afternoon passed in the l(
utmost harmony and conviviality. The captain took his |j
glass cheerfully, while Koempfer prudently reserved himself, j (
to be completely on his guard against any manoeuvre that i)
might be practised in order to deceive him, or, as he properly j (
observed, ‘to be in full and sober possession of all his \)
faculties, that whatever should be presented to his sight |(
might be examined through the medium of his reason.’ The |)
company broke up at rather an early hour, and the captain \l
and Koempfer set out together on their spiritual adventure, i j
When they drew near the captain’s house he suddenly j(
stopped near the entrance to a solemn grove of trees. They I;
descended from their vehicle, and walked towards the grove. ! (
The captain traced a large circle on the ground, into which j >
he requested Koempfer to enter. He then solemnly asked j(
him if he possessed sufficient resolution to remain there |>
alone to complete the adventure ; to which Koempfer replied I \
in the affirmative. He added further, ‘ Whatsoever you may j)
witness stir not, I charge you, from this spot till you see me i (
again ; if you step beyond this circle, it will be your )
immediate destruction.’ He then left the professor to his |j
own meditations, who could not refrain from smiling at j<
what he thought the assumed solemnity of his acquaintance, | j
and the whimsical situation in which he was placed. The |,
night was clear and frosty, and the stars shone with a j(
peculiar brilliancy : he looked around on all sides to observe j /
from whence he might expect his ghostly visitant. He n
directed his regards towards the grove of trees; he perceived :
a small spark of fire at a considerable distance within its
gloomy shade. It advanced nearer : he then concluded it
was a torch borne by some person who was in the captain’s
secret, and who was to personate a ghost. It advanced
nearer and nearer—the light increased—it approached the
edge of the circle wherein he was placed. ‘ It was then,’ to
use his own expression, ‘ I seemed surrounded with a fiery
atmosphere; the heavens, and every object before visible,
was excluded from my sight.’ But now a figure of the most
undefinable description absorbed his whole attention ; his
imagination had never yet conceived anything so truly fear¬
ful. What appeared to him the more remarkable was an
awful benignity portrayed in its countenance, and with
which it appeared to regard him. He contemplated for a
while this dreadful object, but at length fear began insen¬
sibly to arrest his faculties. He sunk down on his knees to
implore the protection of heaven ; he remarked (for his eyes
were still rivetted on the mysterious appearance, which
remained stationary, and earnestly regarded him) that at
every repetition of the name of the Almighty it assumed a
more benignant expression of countenance, while a terrific
brilliancy gleamed from its eyes. He fell prostrate on the
ground, fervently imploring heaven to remove from him the
object of his terrors. After a while he raised his head, and
beheld the mysterious light fading by degrees in the gloomy
shades of the grove from which it issued. It soon entirely
disappeared, and the captain joined him almost at the same
moment. During their walk to the captain’s house, which
was close at hand, the captain asked his companion, ‘Are
you convinced that what you have now witnessed was super¬
natural ? ’ Kcempfer replied, ‘ He could not give a deter¬
minate answer to that question ; he could not on natural
principles account for what he had seen ; it certainly was not
like anything earthly ; he therefore begged to be excused
from saying any more on a subject he could not comprehend.’
The captain replied ‘ he was sorry he was not convinced; ’
and added, with a sigh, * he was still more sorry that he had
ever attempted to convince him.’ Thus far it may be
considered as no more than a common phantasmagorical
trick, played off on the credulity of the professor, but in the
end the performer paid dearly for his exhibition; he had,
like a person ignorant of a complicated piece of machinery,
given impetus to a power which he had not the knowledge
to control, and which in the end proves fatal to him who puts
it into motion. Koempfer now assumed a gaiety which was
very foreign to his feelings; his thoughts, in spite of his
endeavours, were perpetually recurring to thje events of the
evening; but in proportion as he forced conversation the
captain evidently declined it, becoming more and more
thoughtful and abstracted every moment.
“After supper Koempfer challenged his friend to take a glass
of wine, hoping it would rouse him from those reflections
which seemed to press so heavily on his mind. But the wine
and the professor’s discourse were alike disregarded; nothing
could dispel the settled melancholy which seemed to deprive
him of the power of speech. Immediately after supper the
captain ordered all his servants to bed. It drew towards
midnight, and he remained still absorbed in thought, but
apparently not wishing to retire to bed. Kcempfer was silently
sitting smoking his pipe, when, on a sudden, a heavy step
was heard in the passage; it approached the room in which
they were sitting—a knock was heard: the captain raised
his head and looked mournfully at Koempfer. The knock
was repeated—both were silent: a third knock was heard,
and Koempfer broke the silence by asking his friend why he
did not order the person in. Ere the captain could reply
the room door was flung wildly open, when behold ! the same
dreadful appearance which Koempfer had already witnessed,
stood in the doorway. Its awful benignity of countenance
was now changed into the most appalling and terrific frown.
A large dog which was in the room crept whining and
trembling behind the captain’s chair. For a few moments
the figure remained stationary, and then motioned the captain
to follow it; he rushed towards the door—the figure receded
before him—and Koempfer, determined to accompany his
friend, followed with the dog. They proceeded unobstructed
into the courtyard; the doors and gates seemed to open
spontaneously before them. From the courtyard they
passed into the open fields; Kcempfer, with the dog, were
June 6, 1879.
267
THE SPIRITUALIST.
about twenty or thirty paces behind the captain. At length
they reached the spot near to the entrance of the grove, where
the circle was traced; the figure stood still, when on a sudden
a bright column of flame shot up, a loud shriek was heard, a
heavy body seemed to fall from a considerable height, and in
a moment all was silence and darkness. Kcempfer called
loudly on the captain, but received no answer. Alarmed for
the safety of his friend, he fled back to the house, and quickly
assembled the family. They proceeded to the spot, and
found the apparently lifeless body of the captain stretched on
the ground. The professor ascertained on examination that
the heart still beat faintly; he was instantly conveyed home,
and all proper means were resorted to to restore animation :
he revived a little, and seemed sensible of their attentions,
but remained speechless till his death, which took place in
three days after. Down one side, from head to foot, the flesh
was livid and black, as if from a fall or severe bruise. The
affair was hushed up in the immediate neighbourhood, and
his sudden death was attributed to apoplexy.”—News from the
Invisible Wvrld, by T. Charley. (Nicholson & Son, Wake-
field.)
MOVEMENT OF THE DRY BONES.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory and her family are so well
known in Roxburghshire that the circumstance of her
having written the preface to the little book, A Clergyman on
Spiritualism, has stirred up some little interest in a county so
priest-ridden by clergy of various denominations, and this
movement among the dry bones may result here and there in
something like the awakening of spiritual life.
The following review appears in The Kelso Chronicle of
last Friday:—
“ A Clergyman on Spiritualism. ‘ D. Clericus.’ With a Dedication to
the Rev. Sir William Dunbar, Bart., and some Thoughts for the Consideration
of the Clergy. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory. London: W. H. Harri¬
son, 38, Great Russell Street. 1879.
“ The great grandfathers—or, more properly, the great grandmothers—
of the present generation were a good deal troubled with an unenviable
belief in ghosts, witches, warlocks, and other uncanny supernatural beings,
or creatures of the imagination. A similar belief has come upon some
people in our own time, only a new kind of so-called scientific nomenclature
has been invented to give the belief a certain degree of novelty and perhaps
dignity. Education was supposed to be the great disenchanter of the
belief in the old-fashioned spirits who appeared as ghosts to frighten our
ancestors; but the new kind of belief is proof against education, and
endeavours even to link itself on to religion and Scripture. The spirits of
our time are, however, of a more considerate and convenient kind than
those of yore; for whereas the olden sort came all unbidden and unsought,
your spirit of the new school has the sense and courtesy not to come till
summoned, and even when wanted requires to be sought by expedients of a
more or less mystic, formal, and elaborate description.”
This is a mistake. They came unsought to the Fox sisters,
when the modern manifestations first began at Hydesville, in
1847-48. They came unsought to John Wesley and his
family; the spirits in the various haunted oastles of Scotland
came unsought, and so did the spirits of Biblical times.
Nevertheless, if in these days we can help them by giving
facilities for communication, and gradually reduce the whole
matter to a scientific system hallowed by religious aspiration,
so much the better will it be for everybody, and the sooner
will the rapid growth of materialism among the educated
classes be checked.
The reviewer continues :—
“ And when they do appear there is a good deal about them ‘ which no
fellow can understand.’ They make use of no kind of rational speech
comprehensible by mortal understanding. Are we to understand from this
that there is no speech in the other world to which they have gone, and
that it is a place where ‘golden silence’ reigns with an intensity which
may be ‘ felt ? ’ Then the spirits of which we read in Scripture are
described as wearing a certain kind of raiment; but when a company are
gifted with the sight—the Shorter Catechism notwithstanding—of the nand
or arm of one waving from some aperture, as if it had assumed in part the
nature of a monkey, and wished to play impish tricks upon those who had
summoned it from its ‘ vasty deep ’ or height, there is no clothing to be
seen.”
Our critic thinks it dreadful that an arm, or even a hand,
should appear without clothing. Perhaps he is a descendant
of the modest old lady who clothed the legs of her piano* in
woollen garments. As a matter of fact, the arms and forms
of the materialised spirits seen at seances are usually draped,
thereby incurring the displeasure of another class of critics,
who “ can understand the ghosts of dead persons appearing,
but not the ghosts of clothes.” The phenomena of nature
do not alter to suit the theories of individuals.
!To return to our critic :—
! “ Then the incongruity of spirits leaving the higher and nobler employ-
| ments of a better world at the invitation of a mixed company of mortals,
I and simply to satisfy an idle curiosity, or even a legitimate curiosity, does
i not seem to strike people who profess their faith at once in Christianity and
i Spiritualism. That were to invest the immortals with scarcely more dignity
than is accorded to an ordinary theatrical performer, who, at the stage
i manager’s signal or summons, struts and mouths upon the stage for the
| amusement of an audience who may have paid from threepence to three
I ‘ bob ’ a-head for the entertainment.”
j Where did our parsonic Scotch critic learn the English
I! slang “three bob?” At Cremorne?
“These entertainments are becoming scarcely above the level of the
j ordinary exhibitions with the learned pig common in our travelling * shows.’
We read not long ago of a devout music-stool, which at a Spiritualistic
meeting in London clambered up to the top of a table and reverently bowed
^ j no fewer than three times to a family Bible lying there. The ‘ chairman ’
II of the company suggested that by this act the stool meant to convey the
| idea that ‘ music was to be the handmaid of devotion; ’ whereupon this
delightfully intelligent and devout stool, which was gifted with the sense of
hearing but not of speech, ‘ confirmed the chairman’s notion by bowing
j three times successively.’ It was then ‘helped to the ground,’ though
| when it was able to get up without aid it might have been left to get down
I without it. Whether the stool became ‘ possessed with the spirit,’ or was
! simply controlled by it, the account saith not; but the whole thing looks
uncommonly like the work of some tricky individual possessing some skill
| in sleight-of-hand. The illusion here becomes a delusion with those who
(| have fallen under the influence of the Spiritualists. But it seems all spirits
are not good, and we learn from ‘D. Clericus ’ that on one occasion, at least,
when a company wished a ‘ good spirit ’ to come in answer to their desires,
a ‘ bad ’ and angry one arose, who made his presence known by thundering
noises, which ‘ resembled the striking of the door panel with a brick in the
hand of a powerful man,’ to the no small alarm of certain of the company’s
) | One of the party exclaimed, we are informed, ‘ That is the work of a bad.
}; spirit.’ It was the hasty conclusion of a person under the impulse of
(terror; for if proper inquiry had been instituted there is no saying but it
might have turned out that the noisy visitor was in reality a ‘ good spirit,
somewhat out of temper at the unceremonious summons to appear before
such a terrestrial company of inquisitive mortals. However, as his
demeanour only created alarm, and threatened to be a nuisance, it was
resolved to pray ‘ him ’ out of their presence, which was successfully ac¬
complished ; for ‘ D. Clericus ’ tells us that when one of the company had
prayed, ‘in the form of short ejaculations,’ ‘the noise gradually abated.’ This
affair happened while ‘ one who is a medium ’ was shut up in a ‘ cabinet,’
with the ‘ hands bound with tape, the ends of which were waxed, and
(| stamped with my seal, to the floor or wall ’ memory declined to say which.
!! It is explained, further, that the ‘ medium ’ was lying on a couch, and the
company sang a hymn. ‘ Soon afterwards, from a small aperture in the
cabinet where the medium alone was (which aperture the medium if stand¬
ing could not have reached)—from this aperture a hand was projected, then
the arm bare, and subsequently a countenance, the medium all the while
)| reclining, and in a deep trance.’ Whose countenance was that? The
(i writer enlightens us not about its ownership, nor that of the hand or arm.
\ | Were they those of a spirit who had once been clothed with humanity ? If
) I so, they might have belonged to the great grandmother of this same ‘ D.
)| Clericus;’ and we would just like to know if he would not be ashamed to
(! have such a near relation going gadding about between heaven and earth in
(j such a state of undress as ne found her here.”
These spirits without dresses are conjured up by the nice
(! intuition of the reviewer, and are not seen at spirit circles.
(i “ There may be some strange bases of scientific reality in these displays
(i of ‘ animal magnetism,’ or whatever else it may be called; but the act of
) i associating these ‘ manifestations ’ with prayer and other solemn religious
{exercises appears to be in a high degree indecorous and irreverent. We
seem to have fallen on the predicted time of ‘ strong delusion,’ when men
and women—especially the latter—‘ should believe a lie,’ and when people
should be led away with ‘signs and lying wonders.’ And this is not
simply the case with the poor and ignorant, for the rich and partially
(| educated seem most liable to be caught—on the one hand with Spiritualism
l \ and on the other with Romanism.”
The text quoted above probably was intended to apply to
j> | the soul-destroying dogmas now taught from many pulpits ;
) | dogmas which crush in the intellects and warp the hearts
{I of helpless children and weak-minded adults—dogmas spring-
n ing from the lower intuitions of men.
j i “ The lady who writes the dedication in this booklet seems to have taken
) | up the hallucination that in Spiritualism we have restored to us immediate
(| divine revelation. It is a remarkable example of succeeding in believing
(! what one wishes to believe, without the trouble of seeking any firm basis of
Ii fact on which to rest one’s belief. According to this same writer’s dogma,
! ‘ the only way we can please God is by acting up to our highest intuitions.’
| Out of man’s ‘highest intuitions’ have sprung up the religions of the
Brahmins, the Buddhists, the Mohammedans, and viler faiths; and man left
to act according to his intuitions is the victim of corrupt imaginings and
perverted worship. According to the Christian faith, ‘ the only way we can
11 please God is by ’ fulfilling the divine will and obeying the divine directions,
l \ as revealed in the written word. God has not left Himself without a record;
| but that is given in the life of Has own Son and in His revealed and open
51 word. Man’s intuitions—or woman’s either, ‘ my lady ’—may serve well
) i enough to lead astray, but neverto lead us aright.
(i “ The little booklet is a sad specimen of good intentions and aspirations
\ I finding a misdirected bent, and pursuing it without profit of any moral kind.
To hope for any religious benefit to flow from it is still more vain, for there
268
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 6, 1879.
is as little harmony between the communication of the divine spirit and
* Spiritualism5 now as there was between Jehovah and Baal in the times of
the Old Testament prophets.”
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
The following review is from the last number of Public
Opinion:—
Spirit Identity. By “ M.A.,” Oxon. (W. H. Harrison.)^—
The literary style of this work is so high, that criticism on
the circumstances of its narrative would be unnecessary. The
author very well points out the coarse style of argument
which, when discussing a purely metaphysical question, the
agnostic of the nineteenth century bestows even on the facts
supposed to serve as bases for many discordant theories. The
comic element, which the author has well brought to the
front in the quotations from “ eminent ” men of science of
the present day, is that we have declarations that some matter
(undefined) is settled, in what Mr. Spencer is pleased to call
his mind, upon d priori grounds. Such a declaration from
an author who exaggerates elsewhere the value oidposteriori
evidence might be funny if men could in any way regard
the abnormal mental aberrations of their fellow-creatures
with amusement. But the quotation given from Mr. Tyndall
is of a nature not usually printed in or out of, not merely a
scientific, but any book. "W e hope that this quotation does
not exist integrally in the writings of the author alluded to ;
yet as the writer of this book is scrupulously accurate in his
citations, we fear that he may be right in the present one.
The argument of “M.A.” often verges on theological points, on
which we would rather not enter. The good a street Arab
may imagine that he experiences when he tries to realize the
conception of an immortal life may be problematical. The
author, however, has not forced any theological tenet to the
front, but has managed to give nearly all sides of a question
which his own enormous experience and study led him to
conceive cannot be solved from any one contracted point of
view. He pronounces, to use his own words, “ almost on the
threshold of a vast inquiry, speaking moreover of the causes
of things in themselves so various, in the methods of their
presentation so portean, in their perpetual changefulness so
perplexing—speaking, too, as one averse to theorising,
especially on a subject so fruitful of fanciful hypotheses.u
When we say that “M. A.” possesses the sincerity of belief that
enables him to speak with a conviction which must impress
everyone with a belief in his personal genuineness; the
eloquence of style which allows him to carry his readers with
him during his narration of a series of accurately ascer¬
tained facts, which are treated with a peculiar delicacy of
touch and lucidity of delineation; and a very peculiar
manner of bringing his strongest cases forward, rather rely¬
ing on the conviction of his readers on the strength of
individual examples than on the number of imperfect
instances he might have adduced, we think we have
adequately described the tone as well as the scope of the
work. To all those persons on whose mental palates the
rather feeble psychology of the nineteenth century has palled,
we commend this volume, which places at the disposal of the
intelligent student a number of canons of criticism of service
to all those who do not think it too late in the world’s life-
history to revive the bygone Socratic methods of inves¬
tigation.
Mr. J. W. Eletcher will speak on “ Objections to Spiritualism,” at the
Steinway Hall, next Sunday evening.
Contributions towards the Eolx-Lore or Cornwall.—Mr. W.
Bottrell will publish, in octavo, about 250 pp., as soon as a sufficient number
of subscribers have been obtained, Stories and Folk-Lore of West Cornwall.
collected during the last six years. Only a few copies will be printed beyond
what are actually subscribed for. The following is a portion of the contents :
Legends of Ladock, The Demon Wrestler, The Feathered Fiend, The Ghosts
of Kenegie, Laying of Squire Harris’s Ghost, The Haunted Lawyer, The
Haunted Seaman of Zennor, Tom Treva and the Pellar (a new version from
The Reliquary), Fairies on the Eastern Green, Penzance of Our Grand¬
fathers, The Mutton Feast at St. Ives, Miscellaneous Folk-lore, Cornish
Conjurers’ Charms against Witchcraft, “ being overlooked by evil-eyes,” etc.
Observances with regard to the Sun and Moon, The Ghost-layer, The Witch
of Kerrow, Cornish Local Nicknames, Recent finding of a Cornish Pellar’s
Charm amongst the ruins of a Roman Villa at Cirencester, Glossary of
Living Cornish Words, and Old Sayings, with Examples of their Usage, etc.
Index and Subscribers’ Names. Names may be forwarded to Trubner
and Co.—Triibner’s Literary Record.
Correspontience*
{.Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be
returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which are
not anonymous.]  
tcA VISITOR.55
Sir,—The words “ final rescension ” have been printed in my letter sent
you by Mr. Bennett, in place of the words “formal recension,” which I
meant to write, I trust legibly, and a meaning is thereby given to my words
which I had no intention to imply, and certainly no motive to express. I
may say that amongst all my sins I never recollect inventing such a word
as “ rescension ” to convey an idea which “ rescission ” already expresses
(see Richardson, Latham, Barclay, Ogilvie, Boag, Wright, Webster, and all
other dictionaries near me), and which “ recension ” does not.
C. Carter Blake.
May 30, 1879.
[The letter was printed as worded in the copy of it sent to us.—Ed.]
A CURIOUS SEANCE.
Sir,—At our home circle a few days ago, the medium sat behind a cur¬
tain across a corner of the room. A string with a slip-knot was passed round
her waist, then through a staple in the wall, and the end held by me. The
light was put out. After the usual phenomena of lights and voices, a voice
said—“ I will try and mesmerise your corn ”—from which I had been suffer¬
ing very much for some days. My side-spring boots were taken off and
placed in the lap of another sitter; hands manipulated my leg for about five
minutes; then my stocking was taken off; then fingers I could feel gently
passing round the corn: in about a minute it was painlessly extracted and
placed in my hand. C. R. Williams,
Hon. Sec. Hackney Spiritual Evidence Society.
6, Field View Terrace, London Fields.
“a miserable superstition.’5
Sir,—In a notice of Modem Thought in the Inquirer of May 10, 1879,
the writer says :—“ The article on Modern Spiritualism is as absurd as are
most of the defences of that miserable superstition.” I have not read the
article in Modem Thought, and cannot, therefore, judge of its absurdity or
otherwise. But to call Spiritualism “ a miserable superstition ” is certainly
a most offensive way of speaking of that which to thousands, yea millions, of
educated men and women is a glorious truth, and a source of great and un¬
failing comfort. Before our critic again indulges in such a sweeping and
offensive statement on a subject of such deep and moving interest to so many
minds and hearts in many lands, he would do well to call to mind some of
the many able, cultured men who have found peace and consolation in what
he designates “ a miserable superstition.” A. De Morgan, many years Pro¬
fessor of Mathematics, and latterly Dean of University College, London;
Judge Edmonds; Dr. Hare, Emeritus Professor of Chemistry in the
University of Pennsylvania, and high as a man of science in America; the
wise, good, venerable William Howitt; Robert Dale Owen, the hard
thinker, author, and diplomatist; W. M. Thackeray, the cool-headed man
of the world, and novelist, are a few who, according to our critic, became the
victims of “ a miserable superstition.” Has our critic read “ Researches in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism,” by Wm. Crookes? or, “Miracles and
Modem Spiritualism,” by A. R. Wallace ? or “ Letters and Tracts on Spirit¬
ualism,” by Judge Edmonds ? or “ The History of the Supernatural in all
Ages and Nations,” by W. Howitt ? or “ The Debatable Land ?” or “Foot¬
falls on the Boundary of Another World,55 by R. D. Owen ? Has he read
any able work on the subject of Spiritualism ? If he had made intelligent
acquaintance with any of the higher works of Spiritualism, he could not have
characterised “Modern Spiritualism ” as “a miserable superstition.” He
would, at least, have learnt to speak in a tone of charity and courtesy of a
subject which has gained the assent of so many acute and cultivated minds.
Allow me to call the attention of our severe critic to the following words of
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace, a man well known in the literary and scientific
world: “ I would point to the thousands it [Spiritualism] has convinced of
the reality of another world, to the many it has led to devote their lives to
works of philanthropy, to the eloquence and poetry it has given us, and to
the grand doctrine of an ever-progressive future state which it teaches.
Those who will examine its literature will acknowledge these facts. Those
who will not examine for themselves either the literature or the phenomena
of Spiritualism should at least refrain from passing judgment on a matter
of which they are confessedly and wilfully ignorant.”
J. M. Dixon.
Hull, May 26, 1879.  
“who wrote Shakespeare’s plays?”
(2b the Editor of the “ Newcastle Daily Chronicle," May 27th.)
Sir,—“Who wrote Shakespeare’s plays?” is the title of one of your lead¬
ing articles of to-day, and in that article you broach several of the conflicting
theories which have been abroad in the world for a considerable period. The
plays have been ascribed to Bacon, Peele, Marlowe, and many others, and
the chief argument against the theory that the plays are the genuine produc¬
tion of Shakespeare are the facts of his inferior education and his supposed
want of classical, literary, and historical knowledge.
On the hypothesis that the plays are the natural and unaided productions
of Shakespeare, the argument has great validity; but is there no other theory
that would cover the whole ground and yet leave Shakespeare apparently the
real author, without either charging him with plagiarism or intentional
deception ? I think there is.
1 think he may have been a conscious or unconscious automaton in the
hanfis of some other person or persons. Socrates affirmed that he got much
of his inspiration from without, and many poets, philosophers, and literati
have felt that their best productions have been by a power not apparently
their own.
We know that in certain exalted states, chiefly under mesmeric conditions,
persons have the power of exceeding their normal literary and artistic
abilities, and we also know that under somnambulistic conditions persons
June 6, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
269
speak and produce artistic work of which they are entirely incapable in their
normal state.
Another form of psychological phenomenon is this—that some persons of
peculiar temperament appear to be controlled by extra terrestrial intelligences,
and perform literary work of which they are entirely incapable of themselves,
and by any recognised natural means.
May not Shakespeare have been one of these ? This suggestion will doubt¬
less appear to be very absurd to the majority of your readers; but majorities
are no guarantee for fact and truth, and the apparent absurdity may thereby
be the result of inexperience on their part, as the theory is in strict accord¬
ance with known and well-authenticated facts.
For example, in company with other intelligent observers, I have sat with
a comparatively uneducated young woman; she appeared on all occasions to
be in her normal condition. I asked, in writing, critical questions, having
relation to various departments of physics, metaphysics, the future life, &c.,
and her hand, apparently automatically, wrote replies to these questions, of
a most satisfactory character—so satisfactory, in fact, that I question whether
there be any man in England who, under similar circumstances, could give
as satisfactory and learned replies.
I would take the newly-elected Bishop of Durham as a representative of
theologians, Professor Huxley as a representative biologist, Professor Tyndall
as a typical physicist, and Mr. Bradlaugh as a secularist, par excellence, and
I challenge any one of them, or all of them combined, to give as full, clear,
accurate, and, at the same time, concise answers to the questions I pro¬
pounded to this unlearned lady as were given automatically through her
band.
Here, then, we have in our own time, and in our own midst, a com¬
paratively uneducated person answering questions—in writing, quickly, and
without revision—that could only be answered by the most learned with
careful preparation and much reflection.
If phenomena of this kind take place now, why, as a hypothesis, should it
not be asserted that Shakespeare was similarly controlled; and that, while his
hand wrote the plays, his brain has till the present time got credit for work
it did not originate, but which was actually the work of another, or of others,
who merely used him as a suitable terrestrial agent for the execution of their
designs ?
I may be told that the evidence respecting the uneducated lady having
written the answers to which I refer is not satisfactory. In reply to that, I
may state that the questions were asked in writing, and the answers were
given in writing, in the presence of six or eight credible local witnesses,
whose names may be ascertained on inquiry; that the questions and answers
are in my possession in the original MS., and that they may be seen by any
intelligent and respectable inquirer.
It may be asserted that the lady was acquainted with the questions before
they were asked in the presence of witnesses. My reply is, that I prepared
the questions; that neither she nor any one else saw them; that they were
firepared in shorthand, which she could not read; and that I vouch for the
act that neither she nor any other being, man or woman, saw or read the
questions before I asked them in the presence of the witnesses.
If this lady, by extra terrestrial aid, wrote the replies to those questions,
may not Shakespeare, by extra terrestrial aid, have written the marvellous
plays with which for centuries he has been credited ?
T. P. Barkas.
26, Archbold-terrace, Newcastle-on-Tyne, May 26th, 1879.
THE BKAHMO SOMA3.
An Indian correspondent has favoured us with the following historical
outline (from the Allahabad Pioneer of May 6th) of one of the most
important religious movements in India:—
“ In the carefully written brochure mentioned below,* Mr. Leonard, some
time assistant secretary to the Asiatic Society of Bengal, has given food for
much reflection. Tracmg the origin of the Somaj movement to the influence
of English education as first introduced among the natives of Bengal, the
author gives facts tending to connect it with the past; and, indeed, to show
that it is as much the same as the old Monotheism of the Hindus, as a grown
man is identical with the child of bygone years. Originated by Ram Mohun
Roy, the Somaj was first intended apparently as a sort of debating society;
and it was so far from aiming at the position of a mere religious denomina¬
tion that it rather appeared to earnest missionaries like Duff and Wilson a
general reformation oased on a revival of doctrines long before promulgated
and never since rejected by good men in India or elsewhere.
“Ram Mohun Roy was a man of unquestionable superiority. He was one
of several sous of a Brahmin landholder in the Bardwan district; and at an
early age evinced a love of travel and a talent for acquiring the languages
and sciences of foreigners which would have been remarkable anywhere, and
in a Hindu were almost a prodigy. Obtaining Government service as
Sarishtadar in the Collector’s office at Rungpore, he made such good use of
his opportunities that at the end of ten years he was enabled to retire with
sufficient money to buy landed property with a clear rent roll of Rs. 10,000
a year, a great estate as money then ruled in Bengal. Better still, he had
acquired aknowledge of Safiism, Mahomedanism, Buddhism, and Christianity,
derived from original sources. Thus equipped, and still in the prime of life,
this Luther of the Hindus commenced his attack upon the abuses of orthodox
Hinduism, combining with it, as every true reformer must do, a system of
positive dogma. In 1828 he founded the first Somaj, his associates being
Prasana Kumar Tagore, Roy Kalinath Munshi, the well-known Babu
Dwarkanath, and the Rev. Wm. Adam. A millionaire of Howrah, named
Motharanath Mullick,f was also a prominent founder.
“In 1830 the puppet King of Delhi persuaded the reformer to go to
England as his envoy, and conferred upon him the title of ‘ Rajah.’ Three
years later he died in that country, and his work in India was carried on by
* A History of the Brahmo Somaj: G. S. Leonard, Calcutta, 1879.
t The spelling of these names is of course quite arbitrary.
i Pundit Ram Chandra, assisted by Dwarkanath’s Tagore. But at the time
of Dwarkanath’s death—soon followed by that of the Pundit—the Church
appears to have been in a most languishing condition. From this, however,
! it was raised by the accession of the eldest son of Dwarkanath, the well-
known Debendernath Tagore. Debendernath, though a pupil of the Pundit’s,
II had studied European metaphysics deeply, and called Victor Cousin his guru.
j The following sentence from his writings will serve to show that the
| influence of that rather feeble eclectic had prepared him for something purer
and higher:—c The Supreme Being pervades eternal existence of every
description, spiritual as well as material. He is, in fine, the supreme soul
I of the universe. As the human soul pervades our body from one end to
| the other, so does He pervade all space and time, and all therein contained.’
. i j With the exception of the two words italicised in this extract, it is an almost
Ijj'j exact expression of the Theism taught by the most advanced school of
j 11 modern thought, that of Herbert Spencer. The word ‘ soul ’ certainly
|) i postulates more than that school would allow; and is indeed objectionable,
m as a scientific term, from its associations with technical theology. And no
|yj modem system of philosophy would allow that matter was necessarily
|:( j ‘eternal.’
j)j “In 1843, then, Debendernath and a number of his associates took the
j) j covenant of the Somaj, and thenceforth became its leading element. A sys-
j (! tern of propagandism was now set on foot, and cuttings from the Somaj
| (| stmek root in the interior of the country, Debendernath, though in reduced
11 j worldly circumstances, travelling for that purpose as far as Lahore, not yet
j ) I a part of the British Empire.
ill “ The next important event in the history of the Church was the repudia-
K j tion of the Vedas, in the character of doctrinal authority, and the adoption
|('l of a special ritual and liturgy. And from that period (1850 a.d.) dates the
I) I transformation of the Somaj into a distinctly integrated religious denomina-
|)i tion. In 1859 it finally broke loose from all connection with Hinduism by
1 (| renouncing the various sacramental institutions and ceremonies with which
I s | priestcraft had for many ages successfully sought to incorporate its influence
I j | with domestic life. In the following year was ordained the best known
|) I preacher of the Somaj (at least among Europeans), the celebrated Babu
I (| Keshub Chunder Sen. In 1872 the Government, mainly at the instance
isj of Keshub Chunder, gave the Somaj a valuable piece of assistance by
i)j passing the Civil Marriage Act: a measure which was strangely enough
i) | destined to furnish a fatal stumbling-block to its chief originator.
“ Thus far we have followed Mr. Leonard in tracing the origin of a move-
j(j ment which is the strongest modem illustration of the ability of the Hindu
| (| character to shape for itself a career of progress. The rest of his book is
I! j devoted to a subject less interesting and better known : the innovations,
and ultimately the collapse of Babu Keshub Chunder. As this gentleman
; is so celebrated, both in this country and in Europe, it cannot be necessary
| to enter minutely into the details of his singular career. With a most un-
| usual originality and force of character, he has shown simultaneously the
I unhappy tendency on which so many religious reformers have made havoc
| of their cause. Not content with being a minister, he has sought to be a
I ^ | master; and it is now the opinion of many who are actuated by no hostility
[towards his person that his assumptions of authority have verged upon that
j narrow confine where a teacher confuses his doctrines with himself, and
where enthusiasm degenerates into assumption and blasphemy. This is not
the place for controversy; but we may be permitted to indicate the chief
rocks on which, in Babu Keshub’s hands, the vessel of reform has been run
11 to wreck.
i “ The first is one which was placed in his way by his predecessors; the
postulating of intuition as the source of man’s knowledge of God. There
is no 'proof of this intuition; and therefore the god of this creed has no
I > | sounder basis than the tortoise upon which older Hindu Theists placed
I Vishnu’s Elephant.
! “ The second has been created by himself. In his earliest debates with
the revered Debendernath, Keshub Chunder was warned by the latter that
the jSomcy was but a‘human institution.’ (Letter of 23rd July, 1864.)
The new Church (* The Somaj of India’) was based—as may be seen from
Babu Keshub’s sermons and from the facts stated by Mr. Leonard (p. 140)
—upon a very different platform. This was a sort of revivalistic fervour
I j! and mysticism based again upon the doctrine of Bhakti, or ‘ blind faith,’
|| first taught by the pseudo prophet Chaitanya, who openly proclaimed his
own divinity three hundred years ago.
“ Babu Keshub has made a fatal advance upon this inauspicious path. In
a meeting held in his honour at Monghyr he received divine ascriptions
without administering the reproof which alone could have diverted respon¬
sibility from himself to his ill-advised admirers. Addressed as ‘ Saviour of
i Sinners ’ and ‘ Merciful Lord,’ he did nothing beyond observing that ‘ the
stream of Bhakti was not to be obstructed.’ In previous discourses he
i had already struck the note of anthropomorphism; and he had frequently
I > i attributed a divine nature to several of his predecessors in India and else-
| (j where.
1“ These events were followed by the Babu’s visit to England, and by an
abortive attempt to effect a modus vivendi with the old society.
“ Then came the serio-comic history of the Kuch-Behar marriage, and the
exposure of the fact that at least the feet of the new idol were of clay:
incidents with which the readers of Indian newspapers are already but too
familiar. A fresh schism followed; and on the 22nd March, 1878, a large
|| meeting of the Somaj of India passed a resolution by which Keshub
| Chunder was deposed from the ministry, and, practically, visited with
I excommunication. .
“ Whether the cause of spiritual freedom and social reform will finally
surmount this shock; whether the Hindu mind, in a word, is destined to
i join the mind of civilised humanity in the march of progress, is for the
i) j future to decide. If it is so to be—and what good man will withhold his
| (| wishes that it may—a new reformer is needed, one who, like the venerable
I (i Debendernath, will keep the vile promptings of self in subjection; one who,
I (| like some of the leaders of thought in the past, will avoid d priori dogma-
| j i tism, and start with a fixed determination to test the sources of human
5'; knowledge and keep within the flammantia mania mundi.”
270
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 6, 1879.
MEMORY IN OLD AGE. . ' |
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, E.G.S., AUTHOR OF “LETTERS TO MISS MARTINEAU.” j /
Mr. Proctor, better known as Barry Cornwall, the |)
charming poet, told me, when past eighty, that he had dreams j (
and visions, or pictures of early impressions, as of his school- j
days at Harrow, when there with Peel and Byron. He was j
certain that these impressions had never crossed his memory |)
for seventy years; even the names of the boys would occur j /
to him with every kind of trivial incident. He would say : j)
“ My dear Atkinson, tell me where all this memory of early j (
impressions come from. Where have they been stowed j(
away all that while, and why have I completely forgot jj
matters of more moment, which occurred but yesterday ? ” j (
That the early impressions on the young brain should be |)
more lasting one can easily conceive ; but the long oblivion j j
and return in old age does not seem accountable, nor do I see j j
that any theory in respect to the soul or spirit in any way | (
explains the phenomenon. “Young men see visions, and old \)
men dream dreams ; ” but in Proctor’s case it was not dream- 1 (
ing, but actual and correct memory with visions, or, as he j [
expressed it, “ coming before me like pictures.” Then, in | (
his case, the flowing in of original poetic thought, which j)
he could not account for from experience, observation, or j(
reading, seems equally unaccountable as a psychological fact, j)
That the thoughts as if by inspiration should be quickly j(
lost to memory, if not instantly written down, is equally j)
strange, just as the mesmerised sleeper and somnambule has j {
no recollection when awake of what has occurred in the ab- j)
normal state; and how it is with those who deliver inspi- j l
rational addresses I do not know. Then, again, that memory 11
or conditions should be transferred to the new matter is js
marvellous, and the idea of a soul that does not change would j)
not account for the forgetfulness. The marvel and magic of I {
the matter - seem equally unaccountable on any hypothesis, j)
As for the sleep induced by monotonous motion, surely it j (
hardly differs from the lullaby of the child rocked to sleep in j j
the cradle. That the memory and sense of identity should be j \
transferred to the new matter is not different from mental j)
transfer to another person; and we must not forget’the transfer j j
of the whole special nature in the germ, nor the abnormal j)
tendencies passing over several generations and then re- j)
appearing, somewhat as the latent impressions of the child !}
reappear in old age, and all the facts of contagion and in- | (
fection must be taken into the account. Then we have “the ||
dreamer of dreams, and the clairvoyant or interpreter of i j
dreams.” All such correlated facts must be brought together j (
before we can hope by an induction to arrive at the law or j)
laws concerned. | (
Boulogne-sur-Mer, France. jj
Mr. C. E. Williams, the medium, will return to London next Tuesday, j \
Mr. Martheze’s Yoyage Round the World.—Mr. Martheze has left j)
Singapore for Java, and we have just received a letter from him dated j (
Batavia, April 27th, 1879, in the course of which he says:—“I find strong i \
unbelief in Spiritualism here, but many want to see manifestations. I wish j j
I could get Slade here. The climate does not agree with me. I hope to j)
leave in two months’ time for Sydney and Melbourne, where the cold will ; (
restore my health.” I \
Dr. Slade in America.—Dr. Slade has reached San Francisco after j)
doing enormous good to the cause of Spiritualism in the Old World. Un- i l
fortunately he was paralysed during the entire voyage from Melbourne, in i (
consequence of sitting too much at seances, a habit which terribly exhausts i j
the nervous system. Mr. J. D. McLennan, the healing medium of San j)
Francisco, relieved him in a few minutes by mesmeric passes, so that he was i (
able to walk. Mr. Simmons was in Chicago a fortnight ago, on his way to j (
rejoin Dr. Slade. j j
Dreaming the Derby Winner.—Dreaming winners of the Derby is \\
an amusement that has been carried on to a considerable extent this year, j (
A friend of mine, who takes a very prominent part in the conduct of this i j
paper, is a case in point. He went to bed, fell asleep, and dreamed that a i l
certain horse had won the race. He awakened, went to sleep again, and i (
again dreamed that the Derby was over, and that the same horse had won. j (
A third time he went to sleep, and a third time he dreamed that the same j j
horse had galloped in. The horse’s name was Sunshine, but though there are i)
three Sunshines at present in training, one is a two-year-old, another five, j (
and another aged, and consequently neither of them was in the Derby. This j (
would have been awkward had tnere not been a solution of the problem, j j
Sunshine pointed, of course, to Rayon d’Or. You cannot expect a man to j j
dream in French, and Rayon d’Or was quite near enough to Sunshine. So j (
far, this is a very interesting story; but the sequel rather interferes with the j (
merit of the anecdote as a remarkable instance of dreaming the winner— ! \
for Rayon d’Or was, if not absolutely nowhere, at any rate thereabouts.— j j
Jt Rapier,” in the Illustrated Sporting and Dramatic News. 1 ‘
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY AND ITS AIMS*
BY COLONEL H. S. OLCOTT, PRESIDENT OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.
When a new society asks a bearing of tbe world it is sure
to be challenged. The public has that vested right, and none
but fools will object to its exercise. Infallibility is out of
fashion, notwithstanding the Roman comedy of July 13th,
1870, where, as the Syllabus of the Vatican Council tells us,
the Holy Ghost sat with the bishops and judged with them.
Men nowadays take nothing on faith ; the era of inquiry and
proof has come.
The Theosophical Society expects no exemption from the
rule—has asked none; and my presence before this great
audience, so soon after the arrival in India of our committee,
shows our readiness to give a reason for its existence. We
believe it was a necessary outgrowth of the century. I hope
to show you that the hour demanded its coming, and that it
was not born before its appointed time. I will not wonder
if, when you reflect upon the facts I shall present, you, who
trace every earthly event to a supernal cause, will see
the indication of providential purpose in the simultaneous
creation of the Theosophical Society at one side of the world,
and that of the Arya Samaj of Aryavarta, by Swami Dya
Hand, at the other, without the slightest pre-arrangement
or understanding between that pious and learned man and
ourselves. And you others, who retain the word “ unknow¬
able ” in your dictionaries—you, who trace no phenomenon to
any remote and primitive, but only to a secondary cause, will
not fail to wonder at the “ coincidence,” as, to avoid trouble,
you call whatever is otherwise inexplicable.
Our Society points to four years of activity as one proof
that there was room for it in the world. And this activity,
please observe, was not in the midst of friendly environment,
with no one to question or oppose ; but in the enemy’s country,
with foes all about, public sentiment hostile, the press scorn¬
ful and relentless, traitors working with honest opponents to
break up our organization and neutralize our labours. Occu¬
pying, as most of us did, positions of influence, we have had
to suffer, in ways that will suggest themselves to each of you,
for the privilege of free speech. While the press has lam¬
pooned us in writing and pictorial caricatures, by the clergy
we have been denounced as the children of Satan, doomed to
eternal damnation along with the wretched “heathen.”
We throve on opposition. The more we were abused, the
greater interest was created to know what the Theosophical
Society really was, how strong, and what were its aims.
These questions, which have been put to us in every possible
variation since our arrival here, we answered without conceal¬
ment or equivocation, face to face with the enemy, eye to eye.
We had nothing to be ashamed of, whether in doctrine,
motive, or deed, and so we spoke—and now speak—with the
boldness of one who loves the truth and hates a lie.
All this discussion, carried on for months, even years, in
journals of world-wide circulation, drew to us large numbers
of sympathizers. Scattered throughout America and Europe
were men and women of intelligence, influence, courage, who
had long been interested in the topics to which we applied
ourselves, and who needed only such a rallying-point as our
Society offered to combine their strength. So they joined us,
cheering us by their activity of deed no less than by their
friendliness of word. A branch society sprang up in England,
under the presidency of a barrister of the highest capabilities,
and the conjoint direction of a University professor and
medical and other professional men. Other branches were
formed in Russia, France, Greece, at Constantinople, and
elsewhere. One is now forming in Ceylon under that strong-
souled Megittuwatte. Our membership increased to thou¬
sands. We received as brothers, with equal cordiality, Hin¬
doos, Jains, Parsis, Buddhists, Jews, and free-thinking
Christians. At different times the press has described us as
specially representing each of those sects—a proof, certainly,
of our strict impartiality and the general resemblance all
these great religions have to each other at their roots. There
was room for all upon our platform, and none need jostle his
neighbour. What the platform is, will be made clear before
I have done speaking. You will have already inferred, from
what has preceded, that we were not in favour of Christian
theology or any of the sects of which it is the prolific mother.
* An address delivered at the Fraxnji Cowasji Hall, Bombay, March 23rd, 1879.
June 6, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
271
Believing it good generalship to “force the fighting” when
one feels sure of his supports, we not only struck blow for
blow at our antagonists, but contrived more than once to put
them on the defensive. Often, without obtruding ourselves
upon public notice, we aroused an interest in everything
related to the East. Oriental science, literature, chronology,
tradition, superstitions, magic, and Spiritualism, afforded
themes for our allies to speak and write upon, throughout the
two parts of Christendom. Those who have seen the Western
journalistic and periodical literature during the past four
or five years, must have been struck with the apparently
sudden growth of a deep interest in such matters. They will
also have noticed the increased number of books published on
Oriental subjects. How much of that activit}7" is traceable to
the Theosophical Society we only know who have been in the
thick of the fighting.
We have been asked, scores of times, why our Society has
established no periodical nor issued any volumes of Reports.
Our answer is, that a wider activity could be achieved by
utilizing presses already established. We have thus reached
millions of readers where, through any special organ of our
own, we might only have caught the eye and provoked the
thought of a few thousands. How many in India, think you,
have read about the visit of our committee and its objects;
and how many would have done so if we had depended upon
a journal of our own ? Papers in English and the several
vernacular tongues have been sent us, and letters, from the
extreme North to Ceylon, have come to us from those who
have an interest in our work. It has been remarked at the
West that no society has, within so short a time, been talked
about in so many different countries as ours. We gratefully
accept the fact as proof that we are welcomed to standing-
room in the arena of the .century.
And now, What is the Theosophical Society, and what are
its aims ? How much appears upon the surface, and how
much is concealed ? What is the plan of work ? How is the
public to be benefitted by the Society, and is mutual co-opera¬
tion practicable? What attitude do we assume toward
religious beliefs, and what ideas, if any, does the Society hold
about God and His government ? Do we believe in the im¬
mortality of the human soul, and, if so, on what grounds ?
What importance do we attach to the study of the occult
sciences, so called ? What use has been made by many or
few of our fellows, of any knowledge of those sciences ? To
what highest good do we aspire, here or hereafter ? What
are our ideas of the next world ? These questions you have
come here to ask, I to answer. I have copied them from
written documents, handed to me since this address was
announced by the native committee. And here are others
propounded by one who wishes to join us—On one’s becom¬
ing a member, is any course prescribed for him to follow with
a view to his continual progression and the acquisition of the
mastery over his baser nature ? What constitutes the differ¬
ence between the degrees in the Society ? Will instruction
be imparted to individual members or groups; on what sub¬
jects, and how often ? Theosophy has been defined (it is
Webster’s definition) as “a direct as distinguished from a
revealed knowledge of God, supposed to be attained by extra¬
ordinary illumination, specially a direct insight into the pro¬
cesses of the divine mind and the interior relations of divine
nature; ” how far does this agree with the doctrines of the
Theosophical Society ? Is a member of the Ary a, Brahmo,
or Prarthana Samaj debarred from joining it, and will his
joining affect his position in relation to the social rules and
duties of his caste ? How much time would be required to
become proficient in a degree ? Will any library be estab¬
lished and accessible to the Fellows ? Will there be social
gatherings to discuss Oriental philosophy and kindred
subjects ?
We have here seventeen inquiries, covering ground enough
for thirty-four lectures; but I will attempt to cursorily glance
at all in the hour that is at my disposal. All, except those
of a strictly personal character, have been treated at great
length and with signal ability by H. P. Blavatsky, corres¬
ponding secretary of our Society, in her Isis Unveiled—
a work which the London Public Opinion styled “ a stupen¬
dous monument of human industry,” and the Neio York
Herald, “ one of the great achievement^ of our century.”
Those who care to really sound this question of the relative su-
I] premacy of ancient and modern science and religion can easily
i do so, as the work is to be had of the Bombay booksellers.
But to begin with our answers. I affirm, then, that
everything essential as regards principles, recommendations,
I and ideas appears upon the surface of our Society, and nothing
is concealed that should be made known. We do not
say one thing and mean another. We have no men¬
tal reservations, nor make any equivocations. What we
believe we say—always and everywhere. If we have sur¬
vived all the battles through which we have passed—if, after
a four years’ struggle against Christianity, in the very heart
and stronghold of Christendom, we are a strong, compact,
successful Society, daily increasing in influence, having daily
> j accessions of able coadjutors—if, at this juncture, our out-
I! posts are entrenched in the most widely separated countries,
| and garrisoned by men of the most diverse speech, complexion,
| and ancestry—if here, upon the threshold of Aryavarta, we
find our hands clasped with fraternal warmth by the Hindu,
the Parsi, the Jain, and the Buddhist—it is because we have
> not feared to speak the truth at any cost.
I When our Society was organized—at New York, in 1875
—the very first section of'the bye-laws adopted, after fixing
upon our corporate title, affirmed that the object of the
Society was to obtain knowledge of all the laws of nature.
This covers the whole range of natural phenomena, and every¬
thing that concerns mankind and his environments. The
| inaugural address of the president was delivered November
(j! 17th, 1875, and in it, after attempting a comparison of our
(j Society with the Neo-platonists and Theurgists of ancient
| Alexandria, the Fire-philosophers of the middle ages, and the
(| ancient and modern Spiritualists, and finding no exact parallel,
J! I said : “ We are neither of these, but simply investigators,
\ | of earnest purpose and unbiassed mind, who study all things,
) j prove all things, and hold fast to that which is good.” “ We
1‘i seek, inquire, reject nothing without cause, accept nothing
| without proof—we are students, not teachers.” Does not
| this utterance of 1875 answer most of the questions of 1879?
The Society has its secrets, nevertheless, but they harm no
one. Composed, as we are, of people who live at the two ex¬
tremities of the earth, and who speak different tongues, we
have the same necessity as Freemasons for some means of
I mutual identification in special cases. These are afforded in
11 certain signs and tokens which, of course, are withheld from
(! strangers, and are changed as required. Again, operating,
|! as we do, mainly in Christian countries, in some of which, as
j in France, Spain, and Russia, for instance, religious intoler-
) I ance prevails, the corporal perpetuity of our branches would
11 be imperilled by allowing our membership to be known, and
)j our plans for religious and scientific agitation might be
j! baffled by exposing them. Our existence threatens no
ji government, feeds no political cabal, attacks no pillar of
(| social order. We do not concern ourselves in the least with
j I affairs of State, nor lay impious hands upon the marriage,
(! filial, or parental relation. We would not admit man or
)j woman who was in rebellion against the existing laws or
| government of his country, or engaged in plots and con-
/j spiracies against the public peace and safety. In New York
(j we expelled one of our most active charter officers, an
11 Englishman—one of the founders of the Society, in fact—be-
cause he allowed himself to be mixed up with a lot of French
j Communistic refugees in their wicked conspiracies. Judge
for yourselves, therefore, how malicious and unfounded are
)j the libels that have been circulated in this country as to our
I being political spies, and—most ridiculous of all—Russian
I spies ! The only Russian in our party became a citizen of
the United States of America last July, for which act, unpre¬
cedented among Russian women, she cannot put her foot
again on Russian soil without risking transportation to
| Siberia. Even her book, Isis Unveiled, is not allowed to
| cross the frontiers. As to our conspiring against British
| rule in India—were we such lunatics as to dream of aiding
)j sedition against the most stable, wise, and just government,
(i it appears to me, this country ever had since the Mogul con-
) | quest—it suffices only to remark, that two of our party are
(j English, and loyal to the very core. Besides which, we have
I as many, if not more, real Theosophists in the United King-
| j dom as in America, and the president of our British branch
) | society is one of the most loyal of barristers, the son of a
: Member of Parliament! Nor would we admit into our
272
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 6, 1879.
fellowship any one who taught irreverence to parents or im- j i
morality to husbands or wives. Nor have we any room for j r
the drunkard or the debauchee. If Theosophy did not make j >
men better, purer, wiser, more useful to themselves and to i (
society, then this organization of ours had better never have j)
been born. That it lives, and is respected even by those who | j
cannot sympathize with its ideas, is evidence of its beneficent ij
character. This answers one of the above questions, and I K
have also shown you that our plan of work is to employ j)
existing agencies to create an interest in Eastern philosophies \l
and religions, and make the press our helper, even when it j/
fancies it is killing us off with its fine sarcasm or abuse.
And now, we are asked, What attitude do we hold to re- j}
ligious beliefs, and what do we believe as to God and His (
government? The Society, I have already told you, is no j>
propaganda, formed to disseminate fixed dogmas ; therefore, | (
as a society, it has no creed to offer for the world’s acceptance, j
It recognizes the great philosophical principle that, while jj
there is but one Absolute Truth, the differences among men j j
only mark their respective apprehensions of that Truth. It j c
is not for me to say to you what this Absolute Truth is. If ! j
I were capable of doing so, then, for the first time since the j(
world began, there would have appeared an infallible, om- ||
niscient human mind upon earth. There is no educated u
sectarian so bigoted, that, when you calmly discuss with him | j
the basis of his faith, he will not admit that its founder was j |
not equal to the one Supreme God in omniscience and other | [
attributes. The Parsi will not claim it for Zoroaster, the ij
Buddhist for Sakya Muni, the Jain for Parasnatha, the Jew | /
for Moses, the Mohammedan for the Prophet of Islam, nor | (
the Hindu for either of the Rishis, who | [
“ Above all fleshly, worldly feelings soared,
And sought what worldly comforts Indra poured.” |)
Revere his spiritual intermediator and teacher as either of j(
these may, he will only claim that, in his opinion, more of j)
this Absolute Truth flowed from heaven to earth through this j l
particular channel—this minor God, if you will—than through j)
any other. And to settle these disputes, all the spilt blood j (
of religious wars has been shed. Then why should we accord j)
to Christians that which we refuse to other people? Why K
should we accept Jesus rather than Vashishta, Goutam, or \ l
Zoroaster? Until the close of the second century no sect jj
believed Him to be more than a man, “ a good and just man,” ij
as James, His alleged brother, is made to call Him. Every j j
student of history is aware that when the polite and learned | j
Gnostics of that period were exposing the pious frauds and j (
the chicanery of the early Christian writers, and riddling jj
their mythical tales of Jesus and the Apostles, Irenseus, that j (
arch-plotter and forger, produced the fourth Gospel according i j
to John, and converted the previously accepted man Jesus, !(
who contained within His form the heaven-descended Logos jj
of Philo, to the God Jesus, the equivalent of the second j(
person of the Platonic Trinity, and who, being “ Very God,” jj
was the equal of the Deity in every essential attribute. With j(
such a theology, of course, argument is pointless, and we can | /
find no common ground upon which to invite other religion- j|
ists to meet Christians. While, therefore, the Theosophical j /
Society can and does co-operate in the dissemination of the i (
philosophical principles of these Eastern, primitive faiths, it j /
neither seeks the favour nor asks the indulgence of a second- j \
ary one, which can only live by the destruction of every jj
other, and which finds no room in the love, mercy, or justice jj
of its God for men who never heard of Jesus, nor even read a | j
page of its Bible. And so one thing is made clear, that j(
whatever other God any officer of the Theosophical Society jj
may or may not worship, he or it is not the Irensean an- j)
thropomorphic Logos, nor the Jehovah of Palestine. Yet jj
there is another and better Christian God. Far be it from j j
me to scoff at the simple faith of those thousands of Christians j j
who have pictured to themselves a Deity all love and benefi- j j
cence, and who exemplify in their lives and conversation all j)
that is beautiful in human nature. The recollection of my j)
nearest and dearest ones, and of those others whom I have j I
known from boyhood up, in different lands and various social I \
conditions, would stop my mouth were I so unjust and cruel. Ij
I myself come from a line of ancestors who have left behind j j
them historical records of their unselfish and courageous ij
devotion to Christianity. Just as I have left my home, and j j
business, and friends to come to India, to worship the Para- '
brahm of primitive religions, so, in 1635, one of my ancestors
left his home in England to seek in the savage wilderness of
America that freedom to worship the Jewish Jehovah which
he could not have at home under the Restoration. But, as
the author of Isis remarks, these people would have been
equally good in any other religious sect, they are better than
their creed; goodness, virtue, equity, are congenital with
them.
But when we have shown in what we do not believe, we
have to say what is our faith. We do believe in the immor¬
tality of the human soul—the “ we ” meaning all the repre¬
sentative Theosophists whose minds have been opened to me.
In truth, there is not much elbow-room in our Society for
those who persistently deny this assumption, for what
advantage is there in studying all those primitive, sublime
utterances of the Yedas, the ZendAvesta, the Tripitika, about
the soul and future life, if a man is incapable of realizing the
idea of a spiritual self at all ? Let such an one take his
balances and weigh, and count over and christen the motes
of nature’s dust-heap; and get ribbons for catching a new
bug, and titles for impaling a new beetle. He will die
happy in the thought that his name, though Latinized or
Hellenized past recognition, will be transmitted to posterity
in connection with the solar refrangibility of the cucumber,
or some other discovery of equally momentous importance!
The study of occult science has a twofold value. First,
that of teaching us that there is a world of Force within this
visible world of Phenomena ; and, second, in stimulating the
student to acquire, by self-discipline and education, a know¬
ledge of his soul-powers and the ability to employ them.
How appropriate is the term “ occult science,” when applied
to the careful observation of the phenomena of force, is
apparent when we read the confessions of scientific leaders as
to the limitation of their positive knowledge. “We have not
succeeded,” says Professor Balfour Stewart, “ in solving the
problem as to the nature of life, but have only driven the
difficulty into a border-land of thick darkness, into which the
light of knowledge (Western knowledge, he should say) has
not yet been able to penetrate.”* Says Le Conte, “ Creation
or destruction of matter, increase or diminution of matter, lies
beyond the domain of science.”! And even Huxley,} the
high pontiff regnant of materialism, confesses, “. . . . it is
also, in strictness, true that we know nothing about the com¬
position of any body whatever, as it is.”
Did time permit, I might cite to you scores of similar
utterances from the mouths of the most worshipped biologists
and philosophers who happen at the moment to have the stage
of notoriety to themselves. You cannot open a book on
chemistry, physiology, or hygiene, without stumbling upon
admissions that there are fathomless abysses in all modern
science. Pere Felix, the great Catholic orator of France,
taunted the Academy by saying that they found an abyss
even in a grain of sand. Who, then, can tell us of the nature
of life, the cause of its phenomena, the qualities of the inner
man? Who guards the keys of the secret chamber, and
where do they hang ? What dragons lie in the path ?
America cannot tell us, Europe cannot—for we have questioned
both. But in the Western libraries we found old books which
tell that in the olden times there was a class of men who had
discovered these secrets, had interrogated nature behind her
veil. These men lived in the lands now called Thibet, India,
Persia, Chaldea, Egypt, and Greece. We find traces of them
even in the sacred literature of Mexico and Peru. And we
have been told that this sacred science is not extinct, but still
survives, and is practised by men who carefully guard their
knowledge from profane hands. Some of us have even had
the inestimable good fortune to meet with such wonder¬
workers and see their experiments. So we have come in
quest of the places and opportunity to learn, for our own
benefit and that of humanity, what occult law of nature can
be brought out of Dr. Stewart’s “ border-land of darkness ”
into the lighted and odoriferous class-rooms of Western
science.
To what highest good do we aspire ? What is the highest
good but to know something of man and his powers, to dis-
* The Conservation of Energy, by Balfour Stewart, LL.D., F.R.S., Professor of Natural
Philosophy at the Owens College, Manchester (p. 163).
t Correlation of Vital with Chemical and physical Forces, revised for Dr. Stewart’s
book, supra (see page 171). •
% On the Physical Easts of Life, by Thomas H. Huxley, LL.D., F.R.S.
June 6, 1879.
g THE SPIRITUALIST.
273
cover the best means to benefit humanity—physically, morally,
spiritually ? To this we aspire—can our interrogator
conceive of a nobler ambition ? In common with all thinking
people, we have, of course, our individual speculations about
that infinite and awful something which Anglo-Saxons call
God; but, as a Society, we say with Pope—
“ Know, then, thyself; presume not God to scan;
The proper study of mankind is Man.”
As to our ideas of the next world, the aid of metaphysics
would have to be invoked to answer the question. Suffice it
that we do not fancy the other world to be gross like this;
lighted by the same solar vibrations, filled with such houses,
such Framji Cowasji Halls, as ours ! Most men are apt to
brutalize the next world in trying to construct a tangible idea
for the mind to rest upon. The heaven of Milton;—which, and
not at all that of any Biblical authorit}’-, is the one believed in
by Christians—is a place of shining stars, golden pavements,
and bejewelled thrones, on which, without an inch of cushion
to mitigate their metallic hardness, the redeemed saints sit
for ever and ever singing hymns to the accompaniment of the
harp. So, the Moslem paradise teems with physical delights,
and even the “ summer land ” of our Western Spiritualists
has been sketched, mapped out, and described by all the
recent authorities, from A. G. Davis downward.
Is it not enough to conceive of a future state of existence
corresponding with the new necessities of the soul that has
passed through and out of the cycle of matter and become a
subjective entity ? Can we not realize a life apart from the
use of pots and ladles, easy chairs and mosquito curtains ?
Even the Jivan-Mukta, or soul emancipated, while living in
this world, loses all sense of relationship to it and its gross-
ness. How much more perfect the contrast, then, between
our narrow physical life and the Bhavitatman, or soul univer¬
salized—the soul having sympathies with the Universal Good,
True, Just, and being absorbed in Universal Love. Let us
not drown ourselves in metaphysical oceans of vague specu¬
lation in trying to drag the next sphere down to this, but
rather strive to elevate our present plane of matter, so that
one end of it may climb to some sort of proximity to the
higher realm of spirit.
What an important question is this which heads the second
series that I read to you ! How can one be helped to acquire
the mastery over his baser nature ? Mighty problem! how
change the brute into the angel ? Why ask for the obvious
answer to so simple a question P Does my friend imagine
there is more than one way in which it can be done ? Can
any other but one’s own self effect this purification—this splen¬
did conquest, in comparison with whose glory all the greatest
victories of war sink into contemptible insignificance ? There
must be, first, the belief that this conquest is possible; then,
knowledge of the method ; then, practice. Men only passively
animal become brutal from ignorance of the consequences of
the first downward step. So, too, they fail to become god-like
because of their ignorance of the potentiality of effort.
Certainly one can never improve himself who is satisfied with
his present circumstances. The reformer is of necessity a
discontented man—discontented with what pleases common
souls ; striving after something better. Self-reform exacts
the same temperament. A man who thinks well of his vices,
his prejudices, his superstitions, his habits, his physical, mental,
moral state, is in no mood to begin to climb the high ladder
that reaches from the world of his littleness to a broader one.
He had better roll over in his mire, and dismiss Theosophy
with a grunt of impatience.
Great results are achieved by achieving little ones in turn ;
great armies may be beaten in detail by an inferior force;
constant dripping of little water-drops wears away the hardest
rock. You and I are so many aggregations of good and bad
qualities. If we wish to better our characters, increase our
capabilities, strengthen our will-power, we must begin with
small things and pass to greater ones. Do you want to con¬
trol the hidden forces of Nature, and rule in her domain as a
king-consort P Then begin with the first pettiness, the smallest
flaw you can find in yourself, and remove that. It may be a
mean vanity, a jealousy of some one’s success, a strong pre¬
dilection or a strong antipathy for some one thing, person,
caste; or a supercilious self-sufficiency that prevents your
forming a fair judgment of other men’s countries, food, dress,
customs, or ideas; or an inordinate fondness for something
j you eat, drink, or amuse yourself with. It matters not—if it
>| is a blemish, if it stands in the way of your perfect and
(I absolute enfranchisement from the rule of this sensuous
> world, “ pluck it out and cast it from thee.” This done, you
j may pass on.
You understand now, do you not, the meaning of the
(| various sections and degrees of our Theosophical curriculum ?
)j We welcome most heartily across our threshold every man
or woman of ascertained respectable character and professed
sincerity of purpose who wishes to study the ancient philo¬
sophies. He is on probation. If he is a true Theosophist at
bottom, he will show it by deeds, not words ; if not, he will
| show it, and go back to his old friends and surroundings,
j apologizing for having even thought of doing different from
I themselves. And as one who brings peace-offerings in his
| i hand, he will try to do some meanness to us, who only took
II him at his word and thought him a better man than he proves
11 to be. I know this is true, for we have had experience—
11 even in India.
[I I must here clear up one point which some profess to be in
i doubt about, after reading a certain circular issued by our
[! Society. That circular states that for a fellow to reach the high-
| est degree of our highest section, he must have become “ freed
< I from all exacting obligations to country, society, and family ; ”
) | he must adopt a life of strict chastity. I have been asked
(i whether no one could become a thorough Theosophist without
>! relinquishing the marriage relation. Now, our circular makes
| no such assertion. A man may be a most zealous, useful,
| and respected fellow, and yet be a patriot, a public official,
I and a husband. Our highest section is composed of men who
) i have retired from active life to spend their remaining days in
(j seclusion, study, and spiritual perfection. You have your
) i married priests, and your sannyassis and yogis. So we have
(| our visible, active men, seen in the world, mixed up in its
) i concerns, and a part of it; and we have our unseen but none
(j the less active adepts—proficients in science, physical and
i occult, masters of philosophy and metaphysics, who benefit
mankind without their hand being ever so much as suspected,
i Though I am ostensibly president of the whole Theo-
| sophical Society, yet I am less than the least of these
I emancipated ones, and not yet worthy to enter this highest
section.
It is evident from the foregoing that there is room in our
| Society for the Arya, Brahmo, Prarthana, and all the other
minor Samajes which represent the progressive mind of
| young India. Divided, they are comparatively powerless to
do much ; united, they would make a strength to be felt by
I the reactionists. Remember the Roman fasces, my friends,
and put that emblem up over the door of every mundir.
My own country, the great republic of the West, has this
? motto, JE Pluribus XTnum—one out of many—one country
(| out of many smaller States. Just so it might be one national
) | Samaj of Aryavarta, out of a shoal of local societies. That is
(| the plan of our Theosophical Society; we have various
(| branches, but one central guiding authority, and surely there
> 1 are no greater differences between you here, than there are
c I between the red, brown, black, yellow, and white men who
j j call themselves Theosophists, the world over.
The relations of a man to his country and his caste are, as
)! it appears to me, quite distinct from his relations to the study
u of natural law, of philology, of philosophy, and of esoteric
j | science. Your brown faces and Oriental costumes show me,
u even without the fact that this audience understands the
) language I speak, the authors I cite, and the thoughts I utter,
|| that education has no caste, colour, creed, or nativity. Wh}r,
) | then, ask if one must adopt a certain dress or put himself in
(| a certain chair, or before a certain dish of food, to study your
I forefathers’ philosophy ? Here am I, with a white skin, an
European dress, and a life-experience coloured and shaped
after the notions of the section, society, and class in which
my parents brought me up. When I began to ponder this
magnificent Eastern philosophy, I was not told that I must
dress in this way or that, or do this, that, or the other thing,
not vitally injurious—such as the drinking of liquors and
| indulgence in sensuality. I was simply shown the path, my
| way was pointed out, and I was left to my own choice. Well,
j like all men of the world, I had certain bad habits, bad ways
of thinking, foolish ways of living. I put an inordinate
valuation upon things really worthless, and undervalued things
274 THE SPIRITUALIST. June 6, 1879.
really important. I was looking at things through bad l||
spectacles. After a while, I discovered this myself, and as I j;j
was in dead earnest, and determined to succeed or die in the j\ j
attempt, I began to reform myself. I had been a moderate j) j
drinker of wines, after the Western fashion—I gave them up. j\j
I had been a frequenter of clubs, theatres, social parties, race- |) |
courses, and other places wherein men of the world vainly j (j
seek contentment and pleasure. I gave them all up; not I) j
grudgingly, not looking back at them with regret, but as one j (j
flings from him some worthless plaything when its worthless- m
ness becomes known to him. You will, perhaps, pardon the m
employment of my personal experience as the illustration of j n
the moment, in view of the fact that it is the only one which, j (j
without breach of confidence, I can use to answer the interro- i) j
gatory that has been put to me. nl
If India is to be regenerated, it must be by Hindoos who m
can rise above their castes and every other reactionary in- m
fluence, and give good example as well as good advice, m
Useless to gather into Samajes, and talk prettily of reform, |j|
and print translations and commentaries, if the Samajists are in
to relapse into customs they abhor in their hearts, and observe |) i
ceremonies that to them are but superstitions, and throw all j 11
their enlightenment to the dogs. Useless for native gentle- |)i
men to sit at the tables of Europeans, in apparent cordial in
equality, if they have not the moral courage to break bread !;i
with them in their own houses. Not of such stuff are the m
saviours of nations made. j j j
But we will pass on to the next question. No time can in
be specified for the progress of a Theosophist from one stage 111
to another. Some would take years, others days, to reach a i (|
given result. We are asked if any library be established by jjj
us ? I hope and trust so. A nucleus already exists ; who j (j
of you will help to build it up ? What rich native loves his |)l
countrymen more than money ? Or is it your notion that i (j
Indians should do nothing, and the strangers all? We are jjj
willing to give even our lives, if need be, to this cause ; what j(j
more will any of you give ? j j j
Yes, there will be social gatherings to discuss our congenial j\j
themes. In point of fact, there are such already, for every jj;
Wednesday and Sunday evening since our arrival at Bombay, j (j
we have held a sort of durbar, or reception, at our bungalow, j/j
There we will be happy to see all—even spies—who care to i j j
see us, and those who live out of the city can always com- jjj
municate with us by letter. Being people who try to take jjj
a practical view of things, and are disposed to work rather j j j
than talk, we have set our minds to accomplish two things, j j i
We want to persuade the most learned native scholars—such i jj
men, for instance, as the distinguished Sanskrit professor of iji
Elphinstone College, who occupies the chair of this meeting, j j j
and the equally distinguished president of the Pali and jjj
Sanskrit College of Ceylon, and the eminent Parsi scholar j j j
who also honours us with his presence—to translate into jjj
English the most valuable portions of their respective religious j j j
and scientific literatures, so that we may help to circulate jjj
them in Western countries. At the same time, we wish to jjj
aid, as best we can, in the extension of non-sectarian educa- j j I
tion for native girls and married women—which we regard as jjj
the corner-stone of national greatness—and in the introduction j j j
of cheap and simple machines that can be worked by hand j j j
labour and that will increase the comfort and prosperity of jjj
our adopted country. We have chosen this land for our home, j j j
and feel a desire to help it and its people in .any way jj
practicable, however humble, without meddling ourselves j(j
with its politics, into which, as American citizens, we have, jjj
as I have remarked, neither the right nor inclination to in- jjj
trude ourselves. jjj
Let me before leaving this part of our subject make one jjj
point very clear. The Theosophical Society is no money- j j j
making body, nor has it anything to do, as such, with jjj
financial affairs. Its field is religion, philosophy, and science j j j
—not politics or trade. For two years it did not even exact jjj
an initiation fee nor dues. I paid its entire expenses out of jjj
my own pocket, and we only restored the initiation fee jjj
because we had formed a Yedic section to co-operate with jjj
the natives of this country in reviving Vedic philosophy, and jjj
certain expenditures were necessary. Even now, while the jjj
Freemasons, beside a costly initiation fee, are called upon jjj
for large annual subscriptions, we take nothing but the small j j j
sum which each applicant contributes upon being admitted
towards the expenses of the Samaj in India, and not a dollar
of which is disbursed in Western countries.
And now, having answered, seriatim; the questions em¬
braced in our list, I will pass on to some obvious deductions
that suggest themselves, and then conclude.
The Indian press have spoken of it as a very strange
thing that Western people should have come here to learn
instead of teach—as though there were nothing in India
worth the learning. This conveys a sad impression to my
mind. It makes me realize how completely modern India
ignores the achievements of ancient Aryavarta. It shows
how complete is the eclipse of Aryan wisdom, when people
from the other side of the globe could know more of the
essence of Yedic philosophy than the direct descendants of
the Rishis themselves. Since we landed on your shores we
have met hundreds of educated Hindoos, Parsis, and men
of other sects. They have thronged our parlours, filled our
compound, and gathered about us day aftei* day. Out of all
these we have found few—so few that we might almost
reckon them upon the fingers—who really know what Aryan,
Zend, Jain, and Bhuddhistic philosophies teach. There have
been scores upon scores able to recite slokas and whole purans
and chapters with accurate accent and rhythm; but they but
repeated words without understanding, they had not the key
to the mysteries. I have met those who had seen the mar¬
vellous phenomena performed by ascetics, and amply
corroborated all the stories we had heard and circulated
through the Western press, but scarcely one who, having
known and seen such things, had set himself to work with
determination to learn the science and explore the adytum of
Nature. In this throng of visitors there were no end of
students of Mill, of Darwin, of Spencer, of Huxley,
Tyndall, Bain, Schlegel, Renan, Burnouf. Their minds were
whole arsenals of propositions in logic, metaphysics, mathe¬
matics, and sophistry—all the weapons which reason uses
against intuition. They could out-wrangle a Cambridge
double first, and
“ Make the worse appear the better reason.”
They had persuaded themselves into error against their own
inner consciousness. We have noted, and 1 repeat it, that a
larger cluster of acute intellects we never encountered than
this of Bombay. Part had become thorough materialists. To
them, as to Balfour Stewart, the universe seemed “a vast
physical machine composed of atoms with some
sort of medium between them as the machine.” The appre¬
hension of a God had died out, the feeling of having in them
a soul been smothered. With polite incredulity, they have
listened to our tales of phenomena witnessed by us, similar to
those described in the biography of Shanka Acharaya and
Sakya Muni, sometimes unable to repress a smile. They
seemed to come to us more to observe the lengths and depths
to which Western credulity can go, than to gather corrobora¬
tion of the narratives contained in their own sacred
literature. And, I am sorry to say, some few, when out of
earshot, have made themselves merry over our testimony to
the truth of the primitive philosophies.
Another class we have met, with minds full of misty
speculations which prevented their having any clear and
defined views of either of the great questions of universal
human interest. Drawn hither by the reveries of Swedenborg
and Davis, or thither by those of Boehmen and St. Martin,
they had found no sure ground upon which to plant their
feet.
To us strangers this has been a most instructive study,
and we have tried to discover the best means to combine all
this intellectual vigour, this learning, this mental agitation,
upon one objective point. We see in this state of things the
promise of good future results. Here is material for a new
school of Aryan philosophy which only waits the moulding
hand of a master. We cannot yet hear his approaching
footsteps, but he will come, as the man always does come
when the hour of destiny strikes. He will come, not as a
disturber of the peace, but as the expounder of principles,
the instructor in philosophy. He will encourage study, not
inflame passion. He will scatter blessings, not sorrow. So
Zoroaster came, so Gautam, so Confucius. 0 for a Hindoo
great enough in soul, wise enough in mind, sublime enough
in courage to prepare the way for the coming of this needed
June 6, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
275
regenerator! 0 for one Indian of so grand a mould that
his appeals to his countrymen would fire every heart with a
noble emulation to revive the glories of that bygone time
when India poured out her people into the empty lap of the
West, and gave the arts and sciences, and even language
itself, to the outside world! Are her sons all sunken in
selfishness and the soft ooze of little things P Has their
scramble for meagre patronage deadened the noble pride of
race, and replaced it with an obsequious humility tinged with
unreasonable hate P Can they not forgive their fellow-
countrymen for wearing a difierent style of turban and
having a different line of ancestors ? Is the love of caste so
passionate and deep as to make an object of righteous hatred
every one not in their own social circle ? Ah, young men of
promise, beloved brothers, and companions, objects of our
solicitude and hopes, to see and dwell among whom we have
crossed three oceans and threaded two seas, be Indians Jirst
and caste-men afterwards if you will. Is there not one of
you to send the electric spark through this inert mass and
make it quiver with emotion ? Here lies a mighty nation
like a giant benumbed with sloth and no one to arouse its
potential energies. Here lavish nature has provided ex¬
haustless resources, that combined talent and applied
knowledge would turn into fabulous national wealth. Here
rich mines, a fat soil, navigable waters, forests of valuable
timber, a multiplicity of natural products that might be
manufactured at home into portable and profitable articles of
commerce. All that is lacking is a share of that energy and
foresight which, in two centuries and a half, have transformed
the United States from a howling wilderness into a scene of
busy prosperity. In vain the efforts of statesmanship to
spread the blessings of education and promote the industrial
arts if they are not seconded by the patriotic endeavours of
enlightened young India. Are these great colleges and
universities founded for the sole purpose of turning out
placemen and dreamers ? Have schools been opened only to
help hatch-debating societies and metaphysical training
clubs, where minds that should be directing great economical
enterprises are engaged in splitting hairs, and voting
whether love is an essence and man is a molecule ? I have
observed with deep regret that there is among the youth of
Bombay an eager desire for the empty honours of University
degrees, and no disposition to fit themselves for the manage¬
ment of practical affairs. There are far too many native
barristers and doctors, and far too few qualified superinten¬
dents of mills and manufactories, geologists, metallurgists,
and engineers. There are LL.B.’s in plenty, but of educated
carpenters, millers, sugar-makers, and paper manufacturers
none—or next to none. The great and crying want of
modern India to-day is a scientific school attached to every
college such as we have in America, and in each great centre
of population a school of technology with appropriate
machinery where the most improved methods of the principal
handicrafts could be taught to intelligent lads.
© O •
Do not imagine that 1 have the idle notion that India can
be reformed in a day. This once enlightened, monotheistic,
and active people has descended, step by step, in the course
of many centuries, from the level of Aryan activity to that of
idolatrous lethargy and fatalism. It will be the work not of
years but generations to re-ascend the steps of national
greatness. But there must be a beginning. Those sons of
Hindoostan who are disposed to act rather than preach
cannot commence a day too soon. This hour the country
needs your help. Leave your molecules to themselves ; put
away for a time your speculations upon the descent of
species, cease vain endeavours to count the number of times
an atom may be split in halves, and go to work in earnest to
help yourselves and your mother-land. The atoms in space
will evolve new worlds without you; your country is growing
weaker and poorer every day, and wants you.
But you lack capital, you say. Then unite into clubs and
committees to find out where capital can be profitably
employed, and spread the facts before the Western nations.
In London alone there is lying in bank vaults idle capital
enough to set every possible Indian industry on its feet.
Those acute and daring English merchants and capitalists
ransack the world in search of opportunities to earn interest
on their surplus incomes. Turkish bonds, Peruvian railways,
Egyptian consols, Bohemian glass-works, American schemes,
I! are all tried in this hope of profit. What do Europe or
America know—really know—of Indian resources, trade,
customs, business opportunities ? A mere handful of bankers
| and traders have such facts as lie upon the surface of this
| unworked national mine—a few military officers and civil
) | servants may have published the records of their casual
) | observations ; but in comparison with what ought to be
(j known, and might be made known under a proper system of
)i general and sub-committees, this is as a mere drop in the
)\ bucket. As to my own country, which would gladly
) | exchange commodities with India as with any other nation,
(i I can speak by the book. For my people, this land is but a
) | geographical abstraction, whose capes, rivers, and chief cities
(I are known by name to the school-boy, and straightway for-
)j gotten for lack of subsequent reminders. And yet I hear
|| my native brothers complain of poverty. I hear of thousands
| of stalwart labourers dying of hunger for want of employment
at three pice per day. I see Indian gums, fibres, seeds, and
grains going abroad in the raw state, and coming back
manufactured, to be sold at large profit to natives. I see
men as well educated, as strong-minded, as capable to suc¬
ceed in independent business as any young men in New
)| York, or London, or Berlin, demeaning themselves to throng
(I the ante-rooms of public officials in search of employment,
)\ and ready to fall upon each other’s faces for the sake of
If miserable little clerkships. This is what we behold at even
I a first glance at the country of our adoption.
I will make no apology for my plain speech, for I come
! from a practical country, where we have learnt that smooth
\ i speeches and true friendship do not always go together. There
) I is too much talk here and too little enterprise ; too much
(I suavity and not enough available perseverance. There is
) I unmeasured ability to suffer and endure, but not the master
(j spirit which laughs at trouble, and rushes to meet adversity
) j with the joy of the athlete who hails the coming of his adver-
\ | sary as the opportunity, long sought, to show his prowess.
Jl Cast your eye over the Western world and see what an
y| intense activity pervades the whole scene. Let the picture
/1 unroll like a great panorama before you. Behold the struggles
(j of all those nations not only to extend commerce, but also to
) | settle the weightier problem of religious truth. See Chris-
(\ tianity in America broken up into innumerable sects, and
) | science leading the public far away from the Church into the
\ j dry pastures of materialism and nihilism. See the clergy
)! being stripped of the last shreds of their influence, and the free
yj secular press attaining predominant sway. Look at Great
) | Britain agitating the question of disestablishment, the Catholic
y> emancipated from the incubus of the Irish National Church,
) j and Bradlaugh preaching bold atheism in London, Sunday
ij after Sunday. In France, behold the revolution in politics
n that has passed the reins of power into republican hands,
and flung out the Jesuits from their cosy nest behind
H MacMahon’s chair. In Germany, open rupture with the
/\ Pope, and the abolishment of ecclesiastical privileges. In
)\ Russia, the red sceptre of the nihilist party menacing both
)\ Church and State. Everywhere, as it were, the boiling and
(i seething of a vast cauldron—the conflict between Theology
j | and Science.
This conflict, so eloquently described by Professor John
>j William Draper, began with the discovery of the printer’s
(! art, and its progress has been marked by a thousand victories
)j for science. Born out of the womb of the Reformation, she
\ | has proved the benefactress of humanity by facilitating in-
Iternational intercourse, developing national resources, sur¬
rounding mankind with a multitude of comforts and refine-
I ments, and bringing education within the reach of the hum-
| blest labourer. India, as conspicuously if not more so than
11 any other great Oriental country, has not availed itself of these
(| material advantages. The fault does not lie with the masses,
; l for they know nothing of all that has been going on in the
(| busy world. It lies at the door of the educated class I have
heretofore described. And you are the very men ! You
(| have run through the curricula of science and literature, and
Imade no practical application of your acquired knowledge.
The sentries of this sleeping nation neglect their duty.
But as the unrestful ocean has its flux and reflux, so all
| throughout nature the law of periodicity asserts itself. Nations
1 come and go, slumber and re-awaken. Inactivity is of neces-
1 sity limited. The soul of Aryavarta keeps vigil within the
276
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 6, 1879.
dormant body. Again will ber splendour shine. Her pros- j!
perity will be restored. Her primitive philosophy will once j ]
more be interpreted, and it will teach both religion and h
science to an eager world. Her ancient literature, though j'
now hidden away from the quest of an unsympathetic West, |<
is not buried beyond revival. The hoof of time, which has j j
stamped into dust the vestiges of many a nation, has not !<
obliterated those treasures of human thought and human in- j j
spiration. The youth of India will shake off their sloth, and j
be worthy of their sires. From every ruined temple, from j
every sculptured corridor cut in" the heart of the mountains, j
from every secret vihar where the custodians of the sacred jj
science keep alive the torch of primitive wisdom, comes a j
whispering voice, saying—“Children, your mother is not j
dead, but only sleepeth! ” j
Is it TfUJE?—The Boston (Mass.) Sunday Herald of March 9th says:— j j
" Oxford University has had a sensation lately which attracted the vice- n
Chancellor’s attention. It appears that one Mme. Caral, who has given j;
mesmeric performances for many years for the amusement of students, finally j |
controlled her subjects in such a way that she made them row, increasing or | \
lessening the stroke as she ordered. She was given notice to quit.” i j
A Case or Trance.—The case of a woman in the state of trance, now i j
under the care of Dr. Langdon Down, in the London Hospital, has excited ! j
much interest, and presents a well-marked example of this condition. The j)
patient is a woman twenty-seven years of age, of rather small stature and I (
weak mental capacity. She was admitted on April 3rd, on account of i\
symptoms connected with extensive disease of the heart, for which she had i)
been treated as an in-patient in 1877. When admitted, there was marked j >
aphonia; she complained of great precordial pain, and frequently expressed I f
her firm idea that “ she was going to be married.” At this time she had no ! (
difficulty in taking liquids; no marked nervous symptoms were present n
beyond the loss of voice. About May 7th, prostration became marked, ij
without any signs specially attributable to the heart disease, and she evinced j /
great disinclination to take food of any kind. In a few days she fell rather j (
suddenly into a state of trance, in which condition she has remained ever n
since. At first she could be induced with difficulty to take liquids, but soon ;)
she would not swallow even such food, and nutrient enemata had to be given, j)
Tor a few days she would reply to questions by monosyllables, but later gave j l
no sign of consciousness, remaining perfectly passive and motionless, and i J
could not be roused. There was never any kind of convulsive seizure, local i)
paralysis, or sign of any further lesion connected with the heart disease; the I)
pulse remained full throughout. No reflex action was obtained on tickling j (
the feet, and she seemed quite insensible to pricking or pinching the skin, i {
The temperature remained normal. Tor three days she was fed by an elastic j)
catheter passed through the nostrils to the pharynx—a proceeding which she j)
made some attempt at resisting. This condition differs from catalepsy in its (
lifelessness; but for the performance of the organic functions there is no i (
muscular rigidity; the limbs when raised fall as if lifeless, and, if placed in j j
certain altitudes, are not retained fixed as in catalepsy. At present the i)
patient remains in the state described, giving no signs of consciousness; her j \
condition appears to be exactly that of the famous Welsh fasting girl, and j (
there is no sign of special disturbance resulting from her heart disease.— j)
British Medical Journal. i)
Just Published. j (
THE FIRST VOLUME OF |
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES. |
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON. j
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism j)
is produced by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over | j
the river of Death. It contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving i)
that the said spirits are the persons they say they are. The work, from j /
beginning to end, is full of evidence of Spirit Identity. i (
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific | (
methods, giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow j (
from them afterwards. ; (
The book deals with the nature, characteristics, and philosophy of ] j
Spontaneous Apparitions, and shows how to reproduce experimentally some i)
of the phenomena connected with them. The connection bet ween Spontaneous j)
Apparitions and the phenomena of Mesmerism and Spirit Circles is also j /
made clear. i \
Anonymous testimony as to the class of phenomena recorded in the work j (
is almost entirely rejected, even when some well-known person certifies the ] (
trustworthiness of the anonymous narrator. I)
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper, and handsomely bound in I)
half-calf, 8s. 6d., post free. Cloth edition, 5s. 6d., post free. !)
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. !)
Price 3s. 6d, Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp. i}
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma von Yay (Countess Wurmbrand), j)
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. fid., post free (Illustrated with diagrams) I (
GEIST, KRAFT, STOFF. I
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Now ready, the Second and Concluding Volume of the
MECHANISM OF^ MAN:
LIFE, MIND, SOUL.
A POPULAR INTRODUCTION TO MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY AND [PSYCHOLOGY.
By EDWARD W. COX, S.L.,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
Vol, II. Treating op the Mechanism in Action, Price 12s. fid.
Vol. I. may be had, price 10s. fid.; the work complete, 22s. fid.
CONTENTS :
Part II.—THE MECHANISM IN ACTION.
Book I.—The Normal Action of the Mechanism of Man.—Chapter 1. Intro¬
ductory ; 2. The Action of the Material Mechanism in Health; 3. Of Un¬
conscious Cerebration ; 4. Of Mental Sympathy and Communion ; 5. Body,
Mind, and Soul in Health.
Book II. —The Abnormal Action of the Mechanism. —-Chapter 1. Introduction
—The Psychology of the Future ; 2. How to be Pursued; 3. Objections and
Objectors; 4. Precautions in Research ; 5. Prepossession and Dominant Idea;
6. How we Know ; 7. Scientific Evidence; 8. The Plan Proposed.
Book III.—Of Sleep and Dream.—Chapter 1. What Sleep Is; 2. The
Physiology of Sleep ; 3. The Mental Condition of Sleep ; 4. The Seat of
Sleep; 5. Of Dream; 6. The Material Mechanism of Dream; 7. The Psycho¬
logy of Dream; 8. The Phenomena of Dream ; 9. The Philosophy of Dream ;
10. Conclusions.
Book IV. —The Phenomena of Delirium and Insanity.—Chapter 1. Delirium;
2. Insanity.
Book V. The Phenomena of Somnambulism.—Chapter 1. Introduction ; 2.
Somnambulism ; 3. Natural Somnambulism ; 4. Artificial Somnambulism ;
5. The Phenomena of Artificial Somnambulism ; 6. The Physiology of Somnam¬
bulism ; 7. The Psychology of Somnambulism.
Book VI.—Supersensuous Perception.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. The
Phenomena of Supersensuous Perception ; 2. The Physiology and Psychology
of Supersensuous Perception.
Book VII.—Trance.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. The Phenomena of Trance ;
2. The Physiology and Psychology of Trance.
Book VIII. — Psychism. — Introduction; Chapter 1. Objections and
Objectors; 2, The Witnesses; 3. Psychic Force; 4. The Methods of Inves¬
tigation ; 5. The Phenomena of Psychism ; 6. The Psychic ; 7. The Physio¬
logy of Psychic Force; 8. The Directing Intelligence; 9. Phenomena of
Psychism; 10. More Phenomena of Psychism; 11. Other Phenomena of
Psychism; 12. Communicated Phenomena; 13. The Physiology and Psy¬
chology of Psychism.
Book IX.—The Argument.—Chapter 1. The Summing up; 2. Conclusions.
LONGMAN AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spirit¬
ualism, and setting forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
BY
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth, Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions in Religious
Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : Its Place
and Function — Religion and Dogma — Psychism and Spiritualism—• The
Philosophy of Inspiration and Revelation—Christianity: Its Place and Human
Elements.
London: Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hiU, E.C.
Just Published.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges,
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By Captain John James
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an author who has had thirty years’ experience in
Mesmerism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ¬
ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer. ”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
June 6, 1879,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHO¬
LOGY, MESMERISM, ANTHROPO¬
LOGY, AND BIOLOGY.
Price Mre Shillings. Or. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges.
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON),” ow
PSYCHOGRAPHY.
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 38, Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has
been rented on the premises of the National Association of
Spiritualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist News¬
paper and publishing business are not in any way connected
with each other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crooks, F.R.S. The best work
ever published to scientifically demonstrate the reality
of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this
extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to
reveal to him by vision events connected with the early
history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus
saw the Mastodon and other extinct animals as if living
and moving before them; they likewise saw the scenes
by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions
of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation
of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engrav¬
ings, drawn by the sensitives as the visions passed
before their eyes. The substance of a review of this
book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect that there
is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants
who would not cheat him. The question as to the
reliability of the narratives therefore narrows itself down
to the question of the reliability of clairvoyance, which,
when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate
results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary
communication should be established, it will be by
means, of clairvoyance or some other of the latent and
little understood spiritual powers in man. Three vols.
S!4s. ; or 8s. per single volume.
WORKS ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer,”
The Physician.
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
Vol. I.
„ II.
„in.
„ IV.
„ v.
Gt. Harmonia
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology
Answers to Ever-recurrring Questions from the
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . .
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health . ,
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse .
The Inner Life: or, Spirit Mysteries Explainec
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician; or Seeds and Fruits of Crim
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology
Morning Lectures . . .
People.
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS.
Oriental Religion (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little
book, recommended by The Spiritualist news¬
paper . . . . . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing
interesting particulars and legends relating to
Buddhism . . . . . . 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . , . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale
Owen . . . . . . .76
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the
Zulus, by the Rev Henry Gallaway, M.D. In six
parts . . . . . . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into
English, with Preliminary Essays and Explana¬
tory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions
interpreted by Comparative Mythology, by John
Fiske, M.A 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an
Indian Officer . . . . . .50
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into
English from the Chinese Classes, by James Legge,
D.D., LL.D 12 0
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P.
Brown, Secretary of the Legation of the United
States of America at Constantinople . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia,
North Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin
Thorpe. In three vols. . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahom-
med. Translated into English immediately from
the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
"D EYUE SPIRITE, Journal deludes psycho-
JCv logiques, fond 5 par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Societe
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
SYNOPSIS OP CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbd—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That attested by the senses :—
1. —Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Bams, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. —Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr.
George King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls,
Baroness Von Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.
Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan, Bpes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John
Wetherbee, H. B. Storer, O. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee
with Watkins.
II.—From the Writing of Languages unknown to the
Psychic :—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr.
Blackburn (Slade) ; Dutch, German, French, Spanish,
Portuguese (Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame
Blavatsky (Watkins) j Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timay-
enis (Watkins); Chinese (Watkins).
HI.—From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Prepa¬
ration of the Writing :—
Psychics and Conjurers Contrasted; Slade before the
Research Committee of the British National Association of
Spiritualists. Slade Tested by O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.;
Evidence of—Rev. J. Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J.
Seaman (Slade); Writing within Slates securely screwed
together—Evidence of Mrs. Andrews and J. Mould; Dicta¬
tion of Words at the Time of the Experiment—Evidence of—
A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P.,
Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld, M.D., Miss
Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside a
Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of
Circumstances under which Experiments withF. W. Monck
were conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with
White Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the subject of the
Prosecution of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and
Professor Barnett, F R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: its Mode of Opera'ion—Evidence
of C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, O.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelliaeno'e- Dr. Collyer’s Theory ; Dr.
George WyId’s Theory; The Oculist’s Theory; The Spirit¬
ualist’s Theory.
London, W.C, Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Appa¬
ritions—The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox,
J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers, D. D. Hume, and
Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II. — Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—Emerson
—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits atlMoravia, N.Y.,
and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—
Katie King—John King.
Chapter IV.—^Materialisations in England—Mediumship
of Mrs. Guppy, Miss COok, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Ex¬
periments—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. SerjeantCox—The Dialec¬
tical Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Sub¬
stances? — Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits —
Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Descartes—Spinoza
—Herbert Spencer—Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power
over Matter—Testimony of S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit — The Senses—
Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine
of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIH.—Miss Cook’s .Mediumship — Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. O. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes,
Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dumphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmore,
Mrs, Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—Conclusive Experi¬
ments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr.
C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seer-
ship —Swedenborg—Kardec—Chase ray—Cabanis—Coleridge
— Bacon — Luther—Calvin — Plutarch—Charles Bonnet-
Materialisation of Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in
God — Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine
Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—
The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Mora’ity — Sin
Punishes Itself — A Moral Creed — The Teachings of
Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner— Objections
to Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe—
James MartinCau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—
Concluding Reflections.
London; W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 3s. 6d. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, red edges. Post free.
“ RIFTS m THE YEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritu¬
alists. A useful book to place in the public libraries, and to
present or send to those who are unacquainted with Spiritu¬
alism. It contains much about the religious aspect of
Spiritualism (given through the writing mediumship of
“M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of the most refined and elegant
works ever printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ 01 Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through
the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
V. —The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
Vi.—Angel-Guarded.
VII.—An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens.
How the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist,
Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a Secret s A Majestic Mind
Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister ham: Mr. Peter Peck-
craft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments.
VHI.—The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon
(Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-medium¬
ship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “Adamanta.”
XL—Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A.,
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marry at.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von
Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXI11.—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By Die Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem Spiritual¬
ism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism. By
0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kisling-
bury from the German of Schiller.
XXVII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Chris¬
tianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat,
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev.
0. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXX LV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Wortherington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritu¬
alism.
XXXVIII —Spiritual Manifestations among the Fatrirs in
India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzie )
by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Calder.
XU.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLHI.—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation
to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL EEYIEW,
Formerly issued Quarterly at 2s. 6d., is now published
Monthly at 6d., or 7s. per annum in advance, post free.
CONTENTS FOR HAY.
The Existing Breach between Modem Culture and the
Popular Faith; by John S. Farmer—An English Seeress of
the 17th Century; by J. W. F.—Spiritualism in Chili; by
Perigrinus—Some Spiritual Experiences of the Celebrated^
Italian Physician, Jerome Cardan; by A. M. H. W.—A Priori
Proof ofj the Probable Truth of Spiritualism; by Alex. Munro,
M.D.—Progression by Antagonism; by M.—The Future of
Spiritualism; by Thomas Shorter.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Glasgow : Hay Nisbet and Co., 62, Ropework-lane.
P. O. Orders payable to Hay Nisbet and Co., as above.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can
be given. 6 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 6y 1879.
Just Published.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo,
richly gilt,
THE, LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HABBISOIT.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton
and the Author.
Contents.
Past 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the News¬
paper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The
Castle.—6. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.
—7. How Hadji A1 Shacabao was Photographed'. (A letter
from Hadji A1 Shacabac, a gentleman who visited London
on business connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at
Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gardener.—
11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12 Gur Raven.—13. Material¬
istic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Photographer.—16. How
to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song or
the Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. “ Poor Old
Joe!’.’—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-
Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. .“Under the
Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence-
Pabt 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
85. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at
Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s Lament.—29.
The July Bug.—30. The Converted Carman.
Opinions op the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in
roviewnearly a columnlong, says :—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming
athingofthepast; consequently any writer who, like Mr.
Harrison, exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the
praise of all who are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent
faugh. Not that his muse restricts herself only to such
lighter utterances ; on the contrary, some of his poems
touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his
adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years.
. . . The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome
from which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The
Morning Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“Noone can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes are
pitched in “ something like the same key as The Bon
Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably
successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally we find verse
of great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure
poetic gift.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour
should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings.
Written, printed, published and reviewed by William H.
Harrison (38, Great Russell-street). Both the verses and the
short essays are really funny, and in some of the latter there
is a vein of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun.
The Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rat her severe,
and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers ; but one of the most
laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he went to be
photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse. . .’. Some of the
metrical legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be
sung at the meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or
fifteen years ago. Mr. Harrison, however, knows where to
plant ms fun, and an accurate scientific mind like his can
make jokes with success. ... To all who wish to read a
pleasant volume magnificently got up as a gift-book, we
commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The Bookseller.
“ An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies,' some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original,
and not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases
alluded to, and the imprint bears that the work is published
* A.n. 1877 (popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada);
a.m, 60,800,077 (Huxley).’ We believe that our readers
may derive a little amusement from a perusal of the
volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of
which are in verse and others in prose, some scientific,
others social, but all of them excellent. . . . The Lazy Lays
will make excellent and amusing reading for an occasional
spare half-hour. . . . They contain nothing unrefined or in
bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
" How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photo¬
graphed, is well done. ... Bound in a cover of somewhat
powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar
in connection with photographic and other scientific
literature, has considerable facility of versification, and
deals, in pleasant and humorous mood, with many scientific
follies which are better laughed down than gravely dis¬
puted.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with
a due foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has
produced a most welcome book. . . . ‘ How Hadji A1
Shacabac was Photographed ’ will be sure to make every
reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be
expected that his subjects should bear some trace of this
peculiar idiosyncrasy, and indeed they are as free and easy
as himself. . . . The poems are all characterised by smooth¬
ness and rhythmical swing. . . . Theworkis very elaborately
bound in cloth and gilt. ... A gorgeous design upon the
cover. ... If our readers wish to encourage laziness they
have a most deserving object in a very clever and versatile
member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays,
Mr. William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its
appearance and entertaining in its contents. . . . The author
is imbued with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all
while offending none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison,
a well-known contributor to the London and provincial
press, and editor of The Spiritualist. . . . Many of the
humorous poems reminds us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The
Lay of the Photographer, The Lay of the Mace-bearers, and some
of The Wobblejaw Ballads would not have been unworthy of
Barham himself. Some of the shorter poems are exquisite,
and there pervade through the whole a religious seutim ent
and poetie feeling which will make them acceptable to most
readers.”
From the Daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is * How Hadji A1 Shacabac
was Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not
too extensive comic literature. The story is one of which
extracts would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely
humorous. . . . Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-
book of an amusing nature, will find what they want in The
Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily lost.
" A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit. . . . The serious and sentimental verses belong to
the type of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
“It is after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain,
or any of those merry souls who do quite as much good in
their day and generation as the authors of the most serious
. works. The Lays are always original, sometimes serious,
generally comic, but never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty ;
full of lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts,
abounding in tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit
and humour; and one "that may be read many times over. .
. . The get-up of the book is very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled ‘ The Wobblejaw Ballads,’
which appeared in the columns of this paper a short time
ago, and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B.
An irate member of the Town Council officially called the
attention of the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the
burlesques in the ‘Wobblejaw Ballads,’ but the members
assembled laughed at the matter, and proceeded to the next
business. The Mayor said that he did not mind them.] . . .
“ It contains some very choice poems and prose essays, is
bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original design of no
ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7Jd.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF spirit¬
ualism upon THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND
RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
These Essays won the Fibst and Second Gold Medals of
the British National Association op Spiritualists.
2%e jtfpirifaaZisf Newspaper Branch Office, London.
The trapped medium ; or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant. Dr. Proto¬
plaster, in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It
is an excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men and disbelievers in Spiritualism generally. A review
of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet
displays real genius. Price 6d.; post free, 6)d. . Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
AT MRS. PARKER’S, 3, BLOOMSBURY
PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.,
a Philosophical and Developing Circle is being foimed.
Those wishing to join will please send in their names. Terms
on application.
Mrs. Parker’s healing power is rapidly developing into
clairvoyance; she is replying to sealed questions when con¬
ditions favour. Office hours from 12 to 6 o’clock.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY . AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena
for a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner
with the problems and difficulties presented.
In two-vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. pervolume.
London : Npiriritatoi Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size
of those of The Engineer newspaper), strongly and hand¬
somely bound in one, in half calf, red edges. They contain
records relating to Spiritualism in Great Britain from the end
of the year 1869 to the end of 1872, and aiticles and letters
by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F. Varley, The
Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of how
the Royal Society and British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr.
Crookes’s papers cn the physical phenomena of Spiritualism,
as the Royal Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery
of lightning conductors. Very scarce. These two volumes
cannot be had separately. Price, carriage paid to any rail¬
way station in the United Kingdom, £1 10s.
London : W. H. Habbison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor
Chemistry at Edinburgh University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its
quality and size, the cheapest large work ever published in
this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IFirst Effects Produced by Mesmerism—
Sensations—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep
or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-
Walkers—Phenomena of the bleep—Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over
the Subject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feel¬
ings in the Look and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthful¬
ness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep
Caused by Silent Will ; and at a Distance—Attraction
Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Com¬
mands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations;
of Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhi¬
bitions of Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the By¬
standers—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medica
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Anti¬
pathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER TV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision,
without the Eyes—Vision of Near Object: through Opaque
Bodies ; at a Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in
Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc..
Predicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of
the Seer—Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting
Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—
Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of
Speech and of Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—
Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI :—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-
Psychology and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Pheno¬
mena of Suggestions in the Conscious or Waking State—
Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised
by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The
Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The
Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII :—Trance, Natural and Accidental;
Mesmeric—Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col.
Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not all Impostors—
Luminous Emanations — Extasis often Predicted—M.
Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phre¬
nology—Effects of Teaching the Head in the Sleep—Variety
in the Phenomena—Suggestions—Symrathy—There are
Cases jn which these Act, and others in which they do not
Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible
of Mesmerism—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—
Sympathy of Animals—Snail Telegraph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the
Human Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is
Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the
Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic
or M esmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—
Mesmerised AVater—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—
Physiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insanity,
Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Tracea to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight
is Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena
Attempted or Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally
Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the Medium of
Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of
the Subject—Effects of Odyle- Somnambulisn—Suggestion—
Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Eman¬
ations—Odylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magicand Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid
Perception of the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of
Science—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints
r-Conditions of Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure
—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomei a Observed in the Conscious
or Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an
Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and With¬
out Suggestion— Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—
Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or
by Concentration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The
Magic Crystal Induces Waking Lucidity, when Gazed at—
Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—
Cases—Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the
Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced with¬
out the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—
Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathic Clairvoyance in
the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Frank¬
lin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovi-ion.
CHAPTER XIV Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travel¬
ling Clairvoyance—Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—
Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—Clairvoyance of
Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV :—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous
Mesmeric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions,
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Con¬
cluding Remarks, and Summary.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveeibge & Co., at the
Holbcm Printing Works, Fullwood’s Kents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and Sc. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Haria-lane, London, E.O.
