Registered as a Newspaper,
Cjj* #I!Cr^si x'rmnK^b' j^intalism xn <&x&Kt
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libralo, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDlA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON :
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 289. (Yol. XII.—No. 10.) LONDON: FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1878. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontentg.
Unproved Speculations...     109
The Causes of the Phenomena of Spiritualism. By Charles
Carleton Massey  109
Soientiflo'Bigotry. By T. P. Barkas, F.Q-.S    110
Isis Unveiled and the Todas 110
The Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism:—
On the Effect of Certain Creedal and Conventional
Limitations in Relation to Spiritualism Ill
Three Anecdotes about Ghosts 113
The Power of Spirits over Matter. By Hensleigh Wedg¬
wood, J.P 114
Private Seances:—Remarkable Levitation of Ponderable
Substances 114
Correspondence: — Mrs. Showers on Isis Unveiled —
Physical Manifestations—Is Spiritualism a Religion ?
—Spiritualism in Glasgow—Theosophy—^Materialisa¬
tions—The Inspiration of Ancient Prophets—Commu¬
nications through Writing Mediumship—Will Power
—Test Seances—The Birth of Montezuma—Fac¬
simile Signatures through Writing Mediumship 116
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries. By Emily Kislingbury 120
Answers to Correspondents     ... ... 120
Paragraphs:—A Correction, 113 ; A New Medium  114
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
HSTABLISHBD IN 1869,
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
Jl oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein): Mr. Gerald
Massey: Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Orderof St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. O. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Gxon); Mr. James Wason: Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. O.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.: Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling<
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,‘M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. 10d.;
in the United States and Australia, 18s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly bn sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Oapucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, .U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News-
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established' 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O)
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application,
FRANCIS RAYENSOROFT, Manager.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
Agenda for March, 1878.
Friday, 8th.—Library Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Monday, XUh.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
„ „ “ The Evolution Theory considered in its
relation to Psychology,” by Mr. G. F.
Green.
Tuesday, Vlth.—Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 18th.—Soirte at 38, Great Russell-street. Admis¬
sion to Members and Friends, Is.
„ „ Addressby Mr. A.Calder on “Spiritualism
during the past year "
Friday, 15th.—Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee's Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 19<A.—General Purposes Committee, at 5.15 p.m.
Wednesday, 20fA.—Soiree Committee, at 5 p.m.
,, „ House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
Friday, Hind.—Seance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee, at
6.30 p.m.
„ „ Committee’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Monday, 25th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at
7.45 p.m.
„ „ “The Spirit-World as seen through Crys¬
tals, Mirrors, and Vessels of Water,” by
Dr. Kenneth Mackenzie, F.S.A.
SEANCES FOR INQUIRERS.
The Seances for Inquirers will be suspended during the
early part of the month, after which they 'will be re-organised
on a new basis. Particulars may be learned from the Secre¬
tary. Private Seances for Members are arranged at intervals,
when the Secretary has received a sufficient number of appli-
cations. Tickets, 5s. each. 
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—  H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MISS ELLA & MR. PRANK DIETZ
WILL GIVE
R E C I T A T I O N 8
AT LANGHAM HALL, 43, GREAT PORTLAND STREET,
Every Thursday in February and March, at 8.15 p.m.
Changes will be made in each Programme. ,
^ Tickets may be had at Mitchell's library, 33, Old Bond- street»
Hayes's box office, 199, Regent-street; at the Hall: or of Mr.
Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street, S.W. Reserved seats for the series
of eight recitations, one guinea each. Single tickets—Stalls,
3s.; chairs, 2s. ; balcony. Is.
Works by the Countess of Caithness.
SERIOUS LETTERS TO SERIOUS FRIENDS.
Price 7s. 6d.
OLD TRUTHS IN A NEW LIGHT.
Price 15s.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.O.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
ASTROLOGY. “ Worth its weight in gold.”
Every adult person living should purchase at once
“YOUR FUTURE FORETOLD,” a book of 144 pp., cloth, only
2s. 6d. London: Berger, Newcastle-street, and J. Burns; or
post-free of E. Casael, High-street, Watford, Herts. Instruc-
tions to purchasers gratis.  
PADDINGTON :—The Spiritualist may be
obtained speedily every week from W. Kennedy, book¬
seller, stationer and newsagent, 8, Praed-street, Edgware-road.
Bookbinding and printing executed with dispatch. Morning
papers at 5.30. Evening special at 7.30,
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubner & Co., London.
Just published, price 5s., richly gilt,
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useftal book to place in public libraries, and to present or lend
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration—“ O ! Beautiful
White Mother Death.” Given through the trance-mediumship of
Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—The Apparition of Sengireef. By
Sophie Aksakof—The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris—Gone
Home. Given through the trance-mediumship of Lizzie Doten—
The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond—Angel-Guarded—An Alleged
Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How the writings were
produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea: Mr. Stollop Reveals
a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloister-
ham : Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments—
The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss Treherne)
and Mrs. Margery Miller. Given through the trance-me¬
diumship of Lizzie Doten—Ode by “ Adamanta”—Swedenborg on
Men and Women. By William White, author of The Life of
Swedenborg — Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke — Abnormal
Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals. By Emile, Prince
of Wittgenstein—To you who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat—
Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke—Truth. Given through the
medlumship of “M.A., Oxen.”—Thy Love. By Florence Marryat-
—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von Vay (Countess
Wurmbrand)—Fashionable Grief for the Departed—The Brown
Lady of Eainham. By Lucia C. Stone—A Vision of Death. By
Caroline A. Burae—A Story of a Haunted House. By F. j.
Theobald—“Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C Maurice
Davies, D.D The Ends, Aims and Uses of Modern Spiritualism
By Louisa Lowe—De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell—Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter Blake, Doc.
Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital
—Die Sehnsusht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury from the
German of Schiller—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. Oxen.”—
A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
—“My Saint.” By Florence Marryat—The Death-beds of Spirit¬
ualists. By Epes Sargent—The -Touch of a Vanished Hand. By
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke
—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of “M.A , Oxon.”
—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison—The Prediction.
By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen)—Longfellow’s Position in
Relation to Spiritualism—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natura
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzig) by
Emily Kislingbury—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison—
Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex. Calder—
Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey-
Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to Spiritualism.
By Lisette M akdougall Gregory—Immortality. By Alfred Russel
Wallace, F.R.G.S.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, W.C.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, P.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEARS’ TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pears, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
O. G. SQUINTANI & Co
Show, Rooms :—18c, Liverpool Street, London, E.C,
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <fcc.;
post free, seven stamps.
11
THE SPIBITUALIST.
March 8, 1878,
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alex. Calderj Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, tipper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Filz-Gerald, Desmond -G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Loughborough-road
North, Brixton, S.'W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jeucken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C„ Barrister-at-law, Harcourt-buildings, Temple,
London, E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchlev.N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
■ Ashton, E. P., Harcourt Lodge, 86, Loughborough-road, Brixton,
S.W.
Bapkaa, T. P„ Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., ■The Mansion, Richmond HilL - • *
Blnney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malanar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T„ Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 84. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., The Drive, Enmore-park, S.E.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill. Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss; 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.l C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
T.amont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Maltby, Mrs., 16, Southampton-street, Fitzroy-square, W.
Morse, J. J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. w. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Xewbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Newton, W., 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Kichard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 16, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Reimers, Christian, 6, Manor-villas, Manor-road, Richmond.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sfrawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W. .
Strawindage, Mrs. G. N.. 84. Redcliffe-gardens. West Brompton.
Stock. St. George. M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell. 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
M bite, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. IT., M.A., LL.M., careof A. Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, IT., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors. ,
J. H. Andre, Esq. H. Cook, Esq. Morell Theobald, Esq.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.,
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassois y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
SI. Gustave de Veh, Bischofberger-villa, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Mme. de Veh, Bischoffsberger-villa. Interlaken, Switzerland.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, AtlanticCo.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, LaTresorerie, Wimille. Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq.. Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria. Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,986, Boston, U.S A.
II. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.;I96, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq.; M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Snear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstanes>Esq.,33, Orsett-terrace, Hyde-park, W.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Mohtgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre. 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 137, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D.,Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A,
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London,N.W.
Captain R. E Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.'Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrawe-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Bel grave-road, S.W.
Siffnor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaja,
Naples. ,; >
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Oochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York,
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society^, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog A1 exan.der-gasse, 23,
BudaTpesth, Hungary. .
Dalston Association of Enquirers into! Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Blyton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 3, Guild-
ford-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 28, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republics Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
MR. O. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
 Address as above.  
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
2, VERNON PLAGE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MRS. S. W. FLETCHER,
THE MESMERIC HEALER,
2, VERNON PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE.
Hours, 12 to 5. Patients attended at their homes by appoint¬
ment. ‘ Nervous diseases a specialty.
MR. W. EGLINTON
32, FOPSTONE ROAD, EARL’S COURT, KENSINGTON,
  S.W. 
MRS. CLARA DEARBORN,
Healer and Trance Medium,
10, GUILFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
Hours from 10 to 4.
Mrs. Dearborn deals specially with rheumatics, tumours,
and cancer. Writings are produced upon her arms; they
come as communications, usually in the form of tests. The
poor are treated free of expense. Mrs. Dearborn will make
engagements to treat the sick at their homes.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
’ TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 178, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
ASTROLOGY, a Popular Sketch of
Celestial Philosophy in all its branches, by A. J.
Pearce, author of the Weather Guide Book, &c. Price
Is. 6d. Sent post free by the author on receipt of stamps ;
address, 3, Cedars-terrace, Queen’s-road, South Lambeth, S.W.
The TEXT BOOK OF ASTROLOGY, by the same author,
is now preparing for publication. Vol. I. will contain the
complete rules, and all tables necessary for calculating Na¬
tivities on the Plaeidian method improved by Zadkiel, by
spherical trigonometry (the only reliable and truly scientific
method). To subscribers the price will be 7s. the first volume.
Intending -subscribers will please send their orders to the
author.
Price Sixpence.
The untrustworthiness of dr.
CARPENTER’S PSYCHOLOGICAL THEORIES, set
forth in a Review of his book on Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
cf'c., Historically and Scientifically Considered. By Alfred
Russel Wallace, F.L.S. This review was originally published
in The Quarterly Journal of Science.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
THE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green.
Published by the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, given through
the Mediumship of Lizzie Doten. A companion book to
Poems of the Inner fife; 7s. 6d. Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, London. ,
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London : Spirit¬
ual^. it Office.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
 London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co. 
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE. A narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. MOKSE. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &e., <fec. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
9 engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 1, Englefield-road, Kings-
land, N.  
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends patients and may be consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Lecturer,
• is open to Engagements to deliver Orations, &c., in
London or the Provinces (subjects may be chosen by the
audience, if desired).—Address, 429, Oxford-street, London, W.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant
and Medical Mesmerist, 99, Great Suffolk-street,
Borough. Diseases given up by the faculty are not unfrequently
cured by Mesmerism and receive Miss Mancell’s special atten¬
tion. Patients attended at their homes, and clairvoyant sittings
given by appointment. 
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal¬
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1 p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
MISS BELL TILLEY, Medical Clairvoyant.
Testimonials may be inspected. Appointments by
letter. 40, St. Mary’s-terrace, Maida-hill West, London.
TL. HENLY, Mesmeric Healer, 429, Oxford-
• street. At home from 1 till 3 p.m., Saturday and
Sunday excepted.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
 London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
Second edition, revised and enlarged, price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible com¬
pared WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury London, W.G.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF
SCIENCE, by Epes Sargent. This book, by an author
of considerableability, gives a bird’s-eye view of Modern Spirit¬
ualism in its Phenomenal, Historical, and Religious aspects.
It is one of the best works ever published to give general in¬
formation on all branches of the subject; 6s. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Mediumship • its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free to lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Jt nA tl ntfo tl
Volume Twelve. InTumber Tejm. ■
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 8th, 1878.
UNPROVED SPECULATIONS.
Distinct signs are visible that the controversy upon
Theosophy is drawing to a close. The request published last
week that some little evidence of a precise nature should at
last be forthcoming in support of the doctrines of the
Theosophical Society of New York, has resulted in a state¬
ment from Mr. 0. 0. Massey—that most able and honour¬
able representative of every cause he advocates—that the
proof of the doctrines lies in “ the daily occurring facts of
Spiritualism.” Thus, when we ask for precision, a response
comes in the shape of a vague general statement, leaving the
inquirer to grasp—fog.
Where do the daily occurring facts of Spiritualism prove
that the immortality of man will be quenched if he sinks
himself in materialism, as set forth by the president of the
Theosophical Society ? Not only do they not prove it, but
they have never raised the question for examination.
Where do they prove that sub-human spirits produce the
phenomena? If the intellect connected with physical
manifestations is rarely of a high order, does that fact
quench the trance poetry of Thomas Lake Harris and Lizzie
Doten ? Or does it quench the hypothesis that the intellect
is ever too low to come even from the spirits of certain
savages—men, be it marked—who cannot count more than
five, and who have so small a vocabulary that when the
missionaries wanted to translate the word “ love ” from the
New Testament, the nearest words they could find in the
native tongue to express the idea, were <£ putrid meat ?” Or,
do the phenomena quench the hypothesis that whether the
intellect of the communicant be high or low, it is so modified
by the mental sphere of the medium that its identity is
masked?
WhenTheosophists apply this same method to Spiritualism,
and ask for the precision in the evidence of the presence of
the spirits of the departed in some of the phenomena, we
answer them in no such vague generalities, but reply that
ghosts having the features of dead people are seen in
haunted houses ; that through certain kinds of mediumship,
messages in the handwriting of “ dead ” people are given,
together with matter-of-fact particulars about the past lives
of the communicants never previously known to the mediums.
We admit that good identity cases are exceptional, although
in the aggregate they are numerous. The cases can be quoted
with precision as regards time, place, and circumstance. But
where—to use a spiritualistic simile—has a ghost of a
shadow of an example been presented by Theosophists, of
the occasional annihilation of the spirit of a living man,
which is one of the cardinal doctrines of the Theosophical
faith ?
If Theosophists said—ft We have no precise facts, but we
have taken the trouble to collect and to put in readable com¬
pass the notions of the ancients and of Eastern races about
the soul of man, and we have done this for the benefit of
Spiritualists,” we would reply, “Thank you, you have
rendered us a great and interesting service; we can examine
these problems by our facts, to see whether there is truth
in some of them.” But if Theosophists, after collecting these
ancient notions, preach a doctrine founded upon the specula¬
tions, and say that Spiritualists with their facts and experi¬
mental methods of research are wrong, and never-too-much-
to-be-kicked for their stupidity, the sooner such a dogmatic
position is abandoned the better.
Mr. Massey asks whether we hold “ the popular creed of
Spiritualism that every physical manifestation and spirit
communication is due to the agency of a departed human
being.” If he knows that we do not, and that ever since
T/ie Spiritualist has been published, nearly every number has
contained evidence that we do not, perhaps there may be
a slight trace of accidental unfairness in unnecessarily
importing prejudice by putting such an idea into the minds
of casual readers. The position of this journal as to identity
is thus set forth in our preface to the new book, Rifts in the
Veil.—.
“ Spiritualists do not consider every communication given
through the organism of medium, to be a spirit message
pure and simple. The communications are divisible into
classes. In some cases precise facts, and names, and dates, and
particulars, demonstrably previously unknown to the medium,
and to every person in the room, have been made known
through mediumship, and afterwards, by laborious search in
the British Museum Library, parish registers, and by inquiry
of surviving friends of the £ departed,’ been proved to be true.
There are some mediums again, through whom no such
evidence is obtainable, and the phenomena appear to be
purely subjective; their utterances in their abnormal
state are but slightly higher than their expression of
thought when in their normal condition, and the
sentences in both states have the same grammatical con¬
struction, and the same range of language. Then again,
between these two extremes there is an infinite gradation;
the utterances through some mediums appear to be ‘ uncon¬
scious cerebration ’ in some instances, and the resul t of the
stimulus of an external intelligence in others. Thus it is
claimed that the whole subject is one for careful scientific
research, and that no single theory will fairly cover the whole
ground.”
To sum up. Our claim is that when Spiritualism and
Theosophy are impartially tested by the same methods, they
do not emerge from the ordeal in the same condition, for
Spiritualism gives a proportion of exact, precise, matter-of-
fact evidence of its truth, where Theosophy appeals to vague
generalities too wide and undefined to be practically tested.
One of the inconveniences of vague generalities is, that
disputants having then no mutually recognised standard of
appeal to decide moot points, all the elements are present
for fomenting dissension over an endless and profitless array
of words. But one of Prince Wittgenstein’s articles in these
pages, made known that the Theosophical Society has been
trying experiments on the power of the human will, and as
everybody acknowledges the value of experiments, it might
not be amiss if all who took, part in the past controversy
gave attention to this practical branch of the subject, which
seems likely to yield fruit of much value to the world.
THE CAUSES OF THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM.
B? CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY,
I have no desire to prolong a discussion which you, as
editor, have desired should terminate in The Spiritualist.
And on some points I quite agree, though perhaps for reasons
other than yours, that that discussion cannot profitably be
there continued. But being, professionally perhaps, some¬
what sensitive to the charge of believing without evidence, I
should like to point out that every one who accepts the
phenomena of Spiritualism as facts, and is at the same time
dissatisfied with the evidence of disembodied human agency
in their production, has, pro tanto, evidence either of the
existence of spirits other, and probably lower, than those of
our race, or of our own transcorporeal action, or of both
these causes. Your demand for evidence seems to me mis¬
conceived. We find our evidence not in facts unknown to
you, but in the records and daily occurring facts of Spirit¬
ualism itself. It would be interesting to learn whether those
who, like yourself and M.A., Oxon., speak of our “ unproved
theories ” on this subject, do or do not hold to the popular
creed of Spiritualism—that every physical manifestation and
spirit communication is due to the agency of a departed
human being. If so, I can only wonder and be silent. If
110
THE SPIKITUALIST.
March 8, 1878.
not, I would ask whether all human experience and belief on
this subject, prior to the year 1847, are to count for nothing ?
Sub-human spiritual agencies, intelligent and non-intelli-
gent, have been recognised in all ages except the present;
and the doctrines respecting them which Madame Blavatsky
and Colonel Olcott have put forward have come down to us
upon authority which we say ought not to be despised but
„ studied. I contend, for instance, that St. Augustine knew
something about u the phenomena of Spiritualism,” and
that his statement that “ demons ” will simulate—and that
often with great ingenuity—the characters of deceased persons,
is one worth our serious attention. So of the <( elementals.”
By and by, when we are all agreed that the processes of
evolution result in peopling the universe with some few
spiritual forms and natures besides our own, perhaps it will
be acknowledged that the old world teachings were not so
very “ profitless,” or at variance with present experience.
Meanwhile allow me to say, in correction of a passage in
the letter of M.A., Oxon, this week, that the Theosophical
Society did not first announce itself to the American public
through the address of its President “in blind faith ” in the
pretensions of Mr. Felt, at least in the sense (in which alone
the statement could have point and relevance) that the
society was announced to the public in consequence of this
blind faith or sanguine expectation. It is not quite the same
thing to hold an opinion in blind faith in a future experi¬
ment as to entertain an ill-founded hope of being able to
demonstrate an opinion already firmly held by some particular
means or process. The publication of that expectation may
have been a mistake, but it seemed to be justified, as we
learn from Mr. Storer Cobb, by the assurances of a gentle¬
man who, whether he can or cannot, will or will not, display
the “ elementaries,” was well known for his scientific attain¬
ments, which have led him to other results of a very rare
and curious order.
Temple, 4th March.
SCIENTIFIC BIGOTRY.
BY T. F. BARKAS, F.G-.S,
Professor Tyndall, in an article in The Nineteenth
Century, for March, 1878, p. 501, entitled “ Spontaneous
G-eneration, a Last Word,” says :—“ There are people among
us who, it is alleged, can produce effects, before which the
discoveries of jNewton pale. There are men of science who
would sell all that they have, and, give the proceeds to the
poor, for a glimpse of phenomena which are mere trifles to
the Spiritualist.”
It is very remarkable that this profession of self-sacrifice
on the part of scientific men is so easily carried into practice.
Such self-sacrifice is altogether unnecessary in the case of
what are termed spiritual phenomena; they are plentiful as
are flowers in spring; they are offered to the investigation
of any scientific man; they may, generally speaking, be ob¬
tained in any family circle, and by any family; they are
vouched for by hundreds of thousands of witnesses, many of
them as clever and capable as any of the contributors to The
Nineteenth Century, yet scientific men as a rule systematically
deny the reality of the phenomena, and persistently continue
their denial without any reasonable endeavour to ascertain
the facts by taking advantage of offered opportunities for
investigation. Dr. Slade, who was persecuted by bigots of
science in England, has been convincing both scientific men
and professional conjurers in Germany, yet notwithstanding
the fact that many scientific men in Germany and elsewhere
have investigated and become satisfied of the abnormality of
the phenomena which occurred in their presence, Helm¬
holtz, a prince among German scientists, followed the
example of Huxley, and refused to investigate.
Why is this ? Why do the most pronounced men of science
in all countries systematically ignore investigation. Could
Prof. Huxley with the experience of Harvey fresh in his
mind answer the question ?
Bellachini, professional prestidigitateur to the Emperor of
Germany, William I., aflSrms, after the minutest investi¬
gation of the phenomena, which occur in the presence of
Slade, “ That he has not, in the smallest instance, found
anything to be produced by means of prestidigitative mani¬
festations, or by mechanical apparatus, and that any ex-
i planation of the experiments which took place under the
j circumstances and conditions then obtaining, by reference to
I prestidigitation is absolutely impossible.”
| 26, Arohibald-terrace, Newcastle-on-Tyne, March 5th, 1878.
I I “ISIS UNVEILED | AND THE TOD AS.
||| I wish to make a few remarks anent pp. 613 and 614 of
m Isis Unveiled, vol. ii., which set forth:—
1(1 Hardly fifty years ago, in penetrating the jungles of the Blue or
HI Neilgherry Hills in Southern Hindustan, a strange race, perfectly
i)j distinct in appearance and language from any other Hindu people,
i(| was discovered by two courageous British officers who were tiger-
i | hunting. Many surmises, more or less absurd, were set on foot, and
|) the missionaries, always on the watch to connect every mortal thing
i) with the Bible, even went so far as to suggest that this people was one
]j of the lost tribes of Israel, supporting their ridiculous hypothesis
I) upon their very fair complexions and “ strongly-marked Jewish
i/ features.” The latter is perfectly erroneous, the Todas, as they are
j| called, not bearing the remotest likeness to the Jewish type, either in
j) feature, form, action, or language. They closely resemble each other,
| and, as a friend of ours expresses himself, the handsomest of the
( Todas resemble the statue of the Grecian Zeus in majesty and beauty
) of form more than anything he had yet seen among men.
j Fifty years have passed since the discovery ; but though since that
| time towns have been built on these hills and the country has been
) invaded by Europeans, no more has been learned of the Todas than at
| the first. Among the foolish rumours current about this people, the
| most erroneous are those in relation to their numbers aind to their
j) practising polyandry. The general opinion about them is that on
II account of the latter custom their number has dwindled to a few
j| hundred families, and the race is fast dying out. We had the best
| j means of learning much about them, and therefore state most positively
J( that the Todas neither practise polyandry nor are they as few in
| number as supposed. We are ready to show that no one has ever seen
) children belonging to them. Those that may have been seen in their
( company have belonged to the Badagas, a Hindu tribe totally distinct
| from the Todas in race, colour, and language, and which includes the
) most direct “worshippers” of this extraordinary people. We say
| worshippers, for the Badagas clot'he, feed, serve, and positively look
) upon every Toda as a divinity. They are giants in stature, white as
) Europeans, with tremendously long and generally brown wavy hair
| and beard, which no razor ever touched from birth. Handsome as a
) statute of Phidias or Praxiteles, the Toda 'sits the whole day in-
) active, as some travellers who have had a glance at them affirm.
| From the many conflicting opinions and statements we have heard
) from the very residents of Ootakamund and other little new places of
| civilisation scattered about the Neilgherry Hills, we cull the following:
| “ They never use water ; they are wonderfully handsome and noble
) looking, but extremely unclean ; unlike all other natives they despise
| jewellery,, and never wear anything but a large black drapery or
| blanket of some woollen stuff, with a coloured stripe at the bottom;
I they never drink anything but pure milk; they have herds of cattle,
{ but neither eat their flesh, nor do they make their beasts of labour
i | plough or work ; they neither sell nor buy; the Badagas feed and
i | clothe them ; they never use nor carry weapons, not even a simple
I stick; the Todas can’t read and won’t learn. They are the despair
| of the missionaries, and apparently have no sort of religion beyond
) the worship of themselves as the lords of creation.”*
| We will try to correct a few of these opinions, as far as we have
| learned from a very holy personage, a Brahmanam-guru, who has our
| great respect.
| Nobody has ever seen more than five or six of them at one time;
i they will not talk with foreigners, nor was any traveller ever inside
) their peculiar long and flat huts, which apparently are without either
( windows or chimney, and have but one door; nobody ever saw the
| funeral of a Toda, nor very old men among them ; nor are they taken
5 sick with cholera, while thousands die around them during such
| periodical epidemics; finally, though the country all around swarms
| with tigers and other wild beasts, neither tiger, serpent, nor any other
j animal so ferocious in those parts, was ever known to touch either a
! Toda or one of their cattle, though, as said above, they never *ise
| even a stick.
I Furthermore the Todas do not marry at all. They seem few in
I number, for no one has or ever will have a chance of numbering
j them; as soon as their solitude was profaned by the avalanche of
i civilisation—which was, perchance, due to their own carelessness—the
j Todas began moving away to other parts as unknown and more in-
j accessible than the Neilgherry Hills had formerly been ; they are not
) born of Toda mothers, nor of Toda parentage; they are the children
II of a certain very select sect, and are set apart from their infancy for
I j special religious purposes. Recognised by a peculiarity of their com-
| plexion, and certain other signs, such a child is known as what is
ji vulgarly termed a Toda from birth. Every third year, each of them
(j must repair to a certain place for a certain period of time, where each
of them must meet; their “ dirt” is but a mask, such as a sannyasi ,
II puts on in public in obedience to his vow; their cattle are, for the
{i most part, devoted to sacred uses ; and, though their places of worship
] have never been trodden by a profane foot, they nevertheless exist,
! and perhaps rival the most splendid pagados—goparams—known to
| ] Europeans. The Badagas are their special vassals, and—as has been-
i| tiuly remarked—worship them as half-deities; for their birth and
11 mysterious powers entitle them to such a distinction.
i * See Indian Sketches; Appleton’s Hew Encyclopedia, &c.
Makch 8, 1878.
THJ; SPIRITUALIST.
ill
The reader may rest assured that any statements concerning them i (|
that clash with the little that is above given are false. No missionary j (j
will ever catch one with his bait, nor any Badaga betray them, though ) j
he were cut to pieces. They are a people who fulfil a certain high (j
purpose, and whose secrets are inviolable. j ■
I was resident on the Neilgherry Hills for nearly two j
years, in 1852, 1858, and 1854, and afterwards again for |
some months in 1860. The chief Toda-mund (Toda village) | |
was in a dell just at the back of the hotel where I each time | I
resided. The Todas are not white as Europeans, they are (
brown, coffee-coloured, like most other natives; neither are j j
they a race of giants. They are merely a stalwart race, as !
compared with the Badagas, not as compared with English- j
men. Their hair is coal-black. It may possibly, when
excessively dirty, appear to a near-sighted person of a
brownish tinge. Their huts have been entered by those who
could stomach the dirt. The door is so small that one has to
creep in. Up to 1852, cholera was unknown on the hills.
In that year it made its first sporadic appearance; the
poisoning of the artificial lake by sewerage began to tell.
The medical(C theory,” till then, had been that the cholera (
poison did not ascend more than 4,000ft. above the sea- j
level. Ootacamund is about 7,600ft. above the sea. The |
population of the hills would disappear in a few days; did j
thousands die at a time of any epidemic ? The high j
land on the mountain-tops, which the Europeans and
Todas inhabit, does not swarm with tigers, &c. These (
are but occasional visitors from the lower parts of the range, j
and stop a longer or shorter time, depending on the more
or less ease they find in securing prey. I only saw two
kinds of snakes, and neither of them was poisonous. When
a tiger appears on the hills, he naturally attacks the cattle j
(cows, and very small ones) of the Badagas, and not the
cattle (half-wild buffaloes) of the Todas. Buffaloes in a
herd, and even when single, are awkward customers for a
tiger. In a herd they will trample and gore their assailant
to death. The Todas, at their periodical meetings, club
these buffaloes to death by tens and twenties at a time. I
used to wander over the hills from daylight to dusk, day
after day, in the most lonely parts, with nothing but a j
walking-stick in my hand, and the only formidable quad- j
rupeds I ever encountered were these same Toda buffaloes, |
excepting once, when I came across a pack of wild dogs, early
in the morning, and had some difficulty in preventing a j
little spaniel with me from attracting their attention. I
think it more likely that the Todas are the remains of an • | j
aboriginal tribe, driven up into the hills from the low j (j
country, than that they are of Hindu origin. Up to the j j
time I left India, in 1862, no Brahmin or high-caste Hindu j
ever showed his face on the hills, unless one came, possibly, j j
as a writer, in the train of the collector, when this latter j j j
made his occasional visits. Near Coonoon, some twelve or m
thirteen miles from Ootacamund, and about 1,500ft. lower, I j |
are the remains of an old hill-fortress, called Hullikull- j | j
droog, in which Tippoo confined some of his European pri- ] j
soners. I have seen Toda women with infants in arms, j j I
Polyandry would not necessarily cause the population to j
dwindle. They are credited with polyandry similar to that j j
existing among the “ Hairs ” of South-Western India, and j |
to which is attributable the law of succession alluded to at j j
p. 437 of the volume under notice. No “ Nair ” is a wise j | j
man in a certain sense, and, therefore, the inheritance goes I (j
to the sister's son. Polyandry of the same kind, e.<s., where j I
two, three, or more brothers have but one wife between !) j
them, exists, according to an article in the Cornhill Maga- s j
zine for January, 1878, in Thibet. About this Madame ||
Blavatsky should be able to tell us something. j j
The taming of a tiger-cub is alluded to at p. 467, vol. i. K j
I have myself seen a couple playing about in an English | j j
officer’s bungalow like a couple of huge cats. I also heard I j j
of other instances. The great secret is to keep from them | (|
the taste or smell of blood. If they once taste or smell i 11
this, they become dangerous, and it is time to destroy,them, j!
It does not do, for instance, to let them lick one’s hand, for m
the tiger’s tongue is so rough that it would soon fetch blood. . j) j
This makes up the account of the tigress licking the fakir’s ! 11
hand, at p. 623, vol. ii., appear to me doubtful. As for the jf
remainder of the story, it may be compared with that of ||(
Major Buckley (given in Gregory's Lectures) stopping a j|j
tiger when in the act of charging his elephant. The account
of “ an adept’s soul in an infant body ” only seems to me to
prove the possibility of mesmerising an infant, and the
Delai-Lama is only a standing instance of the same fact.
Where a body, whether they be Brahmins, Buddhists, or
what not, profess the principle of an inner doctrine for the
initiated, and an outer (exoteric) one for outsiders, the latter
can only safely receive as truths from the initiates, facts
which are always and everywhere verifiable. Nothing that
a Brahmin tells you about his wonder-working powers can
be safely taken for gospel. He throws dust in your eyes
on the principle of u omne ignotum pro magnijico." We have
here Sacerdotalism pushed to its utmost—the worst kind
of selfishness, spiritual: no thought of any other being than
themselves, except it be to keep each other in spiritual sub¬
jection. Such is but the natural outcome of such tenets as
rconditional immortality” and uesoteric doctrines.” Those
who hold them are sure gradually to look upon themselves
as the “ twice-born,” and all outsiders are unclean and.
contaminating. I prefer the really self-sacrificing motive
of the most narrow-minded missionary, be he only sincere.
He seeks, in his own blind way, to elevate his fellows—
Brahminists, et id genus omne, to keep them down.
Esoteric knowledge may have (p. 1, vol. i) been in the
world seven thousand years, but esoteric knowledge crystallizes
after two or three hundred years at the most. Diffusion of
knowledge increases and preserves it, and is the only means
of doing so. H. M.
Bath, Jan. 3rd, 1878,
THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Ox Monday evening last, Mr. Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.}
read a paper “On the effect of certain Creedaland Conventional Limita¬
tions in relation to Spiritualism,” at the usual fortnightly meeting of
the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, held at their
rooms, 53, Sigdon-road, Hackney-downs, London, E. Among the com¬
pany present were the Misses Corner, Mrs. and Miss Fitz-Gerald,
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Pearce, Mr. S. A. Davies, Mr. Fred. Barrett,
Mr. J. W. Gray, Mr. and Mrs. Thos. Weeks, Mr. R. A. March, Mrs.
George Worth, Mr. Richard Cocker, Dr. Alfred R. Benson, Mr. Ttios.
Blyton, and others.
Mr. Richard Pearce, having been voted into the chair, introduced
Mr.Desmond D. Fitz-Gerald to the Meeting, after which Mr. Fitz-Gerald
read the following paper:—
OX THE EFFECT OF CERTAIN CREEDAE AND CONVENTIONAL LIMITATIONS IN
RELATION TO SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen,—I gave to the council of this
association, through their esteemed hon. secretary, a list of three
subjects to which I have given some thought, requesting them to select
one for discussion this evening. Their choice has fallen upon the only
one amongst them which involved any feeling of anxiety or. serious
responsibility on my part. I am a little anxious, because I doubt, not
your kindly consideration, but my own judgment in a matter to which
I have not given, perhaps, all the time and thought it should have
received; I am under a sense of responsibility, because what I have
to say may bring amongst us, not peace, but a sword. But very pro¬
bably this feeling is all misplaced, because we have met here for
discussion, and if I told you truisms, or truths in which we all could
agree, there would be no sword, and no tournament in which we could
each strike for that which we deem to be right and reason. “ The
truth should not always be spoken; but, if called upon to speak,
speak the truth, according to the light that is in you ! ”
Certain limitations in relation to Spiritualism—creedal and con¬
ventional ! What on earth, or in heaven, was I thinking of when
this strange title came into my head 1 Oh ! I remember ; some
children seated round a table—a spirit who smiled kindly ; but who
said I was not true to myself. It was a reverie, I think; it will all
come to me by-and-by.
But these limitations—who is there, what is there to impose any t
Well, of course, there is the general public who have not investigated;
there is the Royal Society in precisely the same position. These would
limit Spiritualism to Hanwell and Colney Hatch.
Then there are many good people who would limit Spiritualism to
the pious consideration of a vague heaven, where precious stones are
valueless from their great abundance, and where such music as can be
extracted from golden harps must be very necessary in order to drown
the cries of the tortured wretches below.
Hah I here is a limitation, a creedal one. If we speak to these good
people about Spiritualism—and, mind you, if we behave properly, they
may, in course of time, join our ranks—we must not attack their re¬
ligion, or seek to deprive them of its consolations. Why not i Because
it is in bad taste 1 Whatever else you may do, never do anything that
is in bad taste.
But, seriously, amongst more enlightened people, what limitations
can there be ? Spiritualism, you know, is simply the recognition of
the immortality of the spirit, and of the fact that we may hold control
with our departed relatives and friends, as well as with other
112
THE SElRlTtJAlIST. March §, i87§.
spirits, who sometimes are amusing, and sometimes more or less
instructive.
Practically, you know, it is holding a seance once a month) or
perhaps once a week, and discussing the very interesting phenomena
which occur. Amongst these more enlightened people, there would be
no limitations of a creedal, nor yet of a conventional, kind. For the
spirits themselves aregenerally very well behaved; and Spiritualism, you
know, has nothing whatever to do with any other unpopular ism, or, in
fact, with anything unpleasant to anybody taking an interest in it. Why,
you know, even the most radical Spiritualists admit that Spiritualism
is for all the world—rich and pool', proud ahd meek, ignorant and
enlightened, Jew and Gentile) Christian and Pagam You need tread
tipoh nobody s corns; and you will find no “limitations.”
For the last few minutes I have been watching the countenance of
our chairman, and I have an impression that he does not quite agree
with what I have said.
By the way, this reminds me that we received a letter, only a few
days ago, from an honoured visitor to this country, Dr. Peebles, and
that, printed as a heading, it contained the following
‘ ■ To believe in God as the Infinite Spirit Presence of the universe,
and in the Christ principle as the quickening influence—to hold
conscious converse with angels and spirits, and to live a just, chari¬
table, self-sacrificing spiritual life—these constitute an individual a
Spiritualist.”
And also the following
“ By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love
one for another.”—Jesus.
Must we admit that the mission of Spiritualism, and of Spiritualists,
is not only to give enlightenment in relation to a future existence, but
also to teach men and women how to live in this world 1
Can the Spiritualism which has this mission exist apart from love for
all our kind, from the principle of justice, from the recognition of a
God who—notwithstanding all apparent anomalies—is perfect love and
perfect justice ?
Can love and justice exist while we each and all recognise and endorse
a system of society which is a scramble, an anarchy, of selfishness, in
which we honour those who take the most and give the least, and allow
many to want, and even to starve, amongst those who must give much
aid can take little ?
Can we progress whilst we discourage and condemn any new or old
idea that springs from the aspirations, of humanity, and is at variance
with the present order of things 1
Can we love our neighbour whilst that form of selfishness termed
“patriotism” is a virtue, wholesale murder is termed “glory,” and
the foulest outrages that imagination can conceive, committed upon the
innocent and helpless, are held to be of little moment when “ national ”
interests are at stake ?
In answer to the five questions, one affirmative and four negatives.
But some one denies that1 any outrage upon humanity would, amongst
us, be considered as of little moment. Listen !
“ In the sitting of the Turkish Parliament on February 9th, Yassilaki
Effendi presented a translation of a report which related that, imme¬
diately after Mehemet Ali Pacha and his troops had passed Vize, on the
22nd January, the sub-governor and the cadi took to flight; and, on
the 24th, hordes of savages, composed of Circassians, Zeibecks, and
Bashi-Bazouks fell upon the unhappy town of Vize and the neighbouring
villages. The town itself and thirteen villages, the names of which are
given in the report, were pillaged and set on fire by these wretches. A
great number of the inhabitants were murdered, whilst others made for
the mountains, pursued and tracked by their savage enemies. Eight
hundred unfortunate people of the village of St. George, who had
endeavoured to hide themselves from the fury of their barbarous foes
in a cave, were suffocated with sulphur and bitumen by the Circassians,
the latter having opened a hole and then introduced these materials.”
Through a Greek friend I have obtained some details of this massacre,
derived from private sources. The victims were nearly all Greeks; not
only were they inoffensive, but they had prepared large quantities of food
for the Turkish troops, including those who became their butchers.
Imagination can scarcely conceive all the horrors which accompanied
the massacre ; I will not attempt to give any details.
What did the Turkish Parliament—the supposed representatives of
the nation soiled with the frightful crime of letting loose in Europe such
hordes of savages, not for the purpose of meeting the enemy in the field,
for there they were useless, but to “strike terror” into the .Christian 1
populations? “After a noisy discussion, the Chamber decided to pass
to the order of the day.” What did the English Government and the 1
other European Powers ? Nothing; it was not their business to do any- j
thing ; the incident involved no national or dynastic interest.
What did the English people ? A few days after the news arrived, a |
vast number of them held a meeting in Hyde Park, under the auspices
of “ The National Patriotic League for the Preservation of British ]
Interests.” “ The Turkish flag was raised on high alongside the banner j
of Britain. Loud cheers greeted the association of the two flags.” Again, \
“ hearty cheers were given for Lord Beaconsfield and the Turks.”
The incident has attracted but little attention—except in Greece. It
is one that in European Turkey is common enough. A wholesale out- j
rage against humanity appears to be a very little matter. And what has |
it to do with Spiritualism or Spiritualists ? Is it to us that Lowell
says ?—
« Friends of Freedom ! ye who stand j
With no weapon in your hand,
Save a purpose stern and grand,
All men to set free, j
Welcome! freedom stands in need
Of true men in thought and deed—
Men who have this only creed,
That they will not flee,” " j
And Whittief, tiidst we take his appeal as addressed to ourselves ?—
“ Up now for Freedom I not in strife,
Like that your sterner father saw—
The awful waste of human life—
The glory and the guilt of war;
But break the chain, the yoke remove,
And smite to earth oppression’s rod
With those mild arms of truth and love,
Made mighty through the living God.”
It is time to observe that for some time past I have actually been
transgressing one of the limitations—a conventional one—in relation to
Spiritualism. I have been mixing this up with another ism—human!-
tarianism. Cannot a man be a good Spiritualist and also a good Turko-
phile ? Cannot he defend honest mediums and also the “ integrity and
independence of the Ottoman empire ” ?
We must not, in connection with Spiritualism, attack any man’s
political opinion.
Why not, if we think it inconsistent with the truth we know ?
Because it is bad taste !
Any other reason ?
Because to do so would not be conducive to the interests of Spirit¬
ualism, which has quite enough to do in fighting its own battles.
And, in reference to the “ incident ” that has been mentioned, do we
not read in the Old Testament (Judges ix.) that “ God sent an evil
spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem,” and that, in con¬
sequence, “ about a thousand men and women ” were burned alive “ in
an hold of the house of the god Berith.” A little further on, do we not
read that “ the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel, and he sold
them into the hands of the Philistines.” How do we know that the
inhabitants of “ the village of St. George ” were not in similar manner
“sold” into the hands of the Circassians? The villagers may have
been innocent and inoffensive, but their ancestors may have done some¬
thing wrong! And we know that, on account of what had happened
four hundred years previously, the Lord of Hosts said, “ Go and smite
Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have; and spare them not, but
slay both man and woman, infant .and suckling.” (1 Samuel xv.) Again,
in regard even to one of the “ details ” which just now (heaven give me
patience!) I thought too shocking to mention, viz., the carrying off by
the murderous Circassians of six hundred young girls, do not even our
children read in the Jewish record (Numbers xxxi.) that “The Lord
spake unto Moses, saying, avenge the children of Israel of the
Midianites,” and that thirty-two thousand young girls were carried
off by the murderers of their fathers, mothers, brothers, and married
sisters ?
Yes, but Spiritualism tells of a very different God—the God of mercy
preached by Jesus, His Father who is in Heaven, and the Father of all
humanity; God of unerring law, who is not “ weary with repenting,”
nor “jealous,” nor “furious”; a God that science can revere and
intellect worship; as different from the Semitic deity as light is from
darkness. Surely the God whom we have learned to worship is rather
the “infinite soul, the one eternal, definite, and universal cause” of
which Plato speaks; the“ causation underlying all things ” of Proclus;
the “Being whose thought is a universe” of Goethe, than the Jehovah,
God of Hosts, of Moses. With Jesus, we worship Him who “ alone
is good!”
“ The light from God above us
Is beaming in our eyes,
And angel friends who love us
. Are whispering from the skies;
They speak in accents tender,
And bid us weep no more;
For, clad in robes of splendour,
They tread the heavenly shore.
“ They tell us of the beauty
That shines in their bright sphere;
They teach us of our duty
To love each other here.
The darkness, earth forsaking,
Before the day flies fast,
And man, redeemed, is breaking
From error’s chain at last.
I cannot help it, but I am again infringing one of the limitations of
“good taste ”—a creedal one. I am told I have no right, in connection
with Spiritualism, to attack the “received religious belief of the
country.” Am I rather to accept for Spiritualism, and with Spiritualism,
a deity who, in the words of Shelley, is “ the prototype of human
misrule No! I am with James Burns here; and, I think, with
many others to be found in our ranks.
In going, however, yet further beyond the conventional limitations in
relation to Spiritualism, I can expect to have but very few with me, I
must crave your pardon; but I believe there is some truth in almost
every new idea that has sprung from the aspirations of humanity—that
there is a blessed truth hidden under the hated name of “ Socialism;”
that there is a truth, a high and holy one, even beneath the detested
term of “ Free Love.” As a Spiritualist, I believe in the spiritual and
intrinsic equality of man and woman, and that this equality must, when
women will it, be recognised by all in whom the mental and spiritual
predominate over the animal. From the same point of view, I believe
in the nationalisation of the land—in the right of all to claim a share of
the means of livelihood which God has freely given to man. And I
believe—for friends “ on the other side ” whom I love and reverence
have told me so—that there are man-invented sins which are not
counted as sins in Heaven, and also sins in the eye of Heaven which
are not considered as such by man. The friends I speak of are lenient
in all things that are consistent with charity and love: if they are ever
stem and severe, it is in regard to things'that are opposed to them.
Yet I admit the danger to many—-to most men—of the “freedom
March 8, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
113
wherewith we are made free.” There are many truths of which it may
still be said, “Ye cannot bear them yet.” The general effect of the
“limitations” to which I have referred is to impede the union of
Spiritualism and philanthropy, of angel-ministration and humani-
tarianism, without which our knowledge is as a tree barren of fruit; to
prevent the recognition, and even the discussion, of many truths which
are kindred to, and even consequent upon, those of Spiritualism; to
amalgamate, in a spirit of compromise and complaisance, the truths we
know with the errors of creeds and the wrongs done by society. Still, I
do not consider them with any feeling of bitterness or violence. In
many directions they may have been useful; they may yet be useful,
for a time. They are not as the laws of the Medes and Persians. I
would break through them, but not rashly or with undue haste, lest
there be greater dangers beyond.
Haste not!—let no thoughtless deed
Mar for e’er the spirit’s speed;
Ponder well and know the right,
Onward then with all thy might;
Haste not 1—years can ne'er atone
For one reckless action done.*
And, although there are some in the ranks of Spiritualism whose
worldliness and lack of charity and love may be a weakness and a
reproach to it, I would urge Spiritualists to declare war—not against
those who are yet unable to recognise the brotherhood and sisterhood
of men and women—but against the selfish heartlessness of the dis¬
tinctions of class, caste, and nationality ; not against those, who,
through ignorance, degrade the idea of God far below the level even of
our present civilisation; but against the tenets by which they enslave
the minds of men; not against the few who, in the scramble of selfish¬
ness, we call society, have possessed themselves of the land which
God gave to man, and who live in luxury by selling to their brethren
the right to labour; but on behalf of the eternal justice whose light has
been dimmed by the habit and custom of wrong.
Before I sit down, you would like to hear something more of what I
saw in the reverie of which I first spoke. Well; I saw a multitude of
children, some seated, others standing, at a great table which, some
time previously, a good spirit had furnished for them. And some of the
children seemed pale and wan, because they had too little; whereas
others seemed ill, and looked careworn, because they had too much.
But I think it would have made your hearts ache to see some of these
little children fainting from want. I saw also that those who had
heaped together to themselves the gifts of the good spirit, seldom left
them to the famishing when they left the table, but mostly placed their
heaps in the hands of other children who had much already. And a
spirit said to me: “ God has given enough for all! see the wisdom of
men!” Then this spirit showed me two children seated, each with
his due share of that which had been sent. And the children
gambled with dice; so that one lost all he had. Then the spirit ques¬
tioned me, saying: “ Is the sum of their wealth the same ?” And, as I
paused before answering (for I had not my political economy with me),
he smiled sadly and said, “ This one has now twice as much as he had ;
but his brother, has he not less than half? ” The one who had
lost moved away, as if to die (and he would have died of want had it
not been for another child, who had but a very little, and whom the
spirit loved very dearly), whilst the one who had gained laughed gaily
at his good fortune. Yet I seemed to see clearly, whilst the spirit was
there, that somehow his wealth was less than it was at first. Many
other things the spirit showed me, which I cannot recall, though they
are impressed upon me; but I remember his saying reproachfully;
(i You, also, are not true to yourself! ”
It is in deprecation of this reproach that I have spoken to-night.
Brothers ! round us brethren stand !
Pledge your truth, and give your hand;
Raise the downcast, help the weak,
Toil for good—for virtue speak.
Let your brethren be your care—
Labor! labor!—work is prayer!
At the close of the reading of the above paper, Messrs. March,
Gray, Barrett, and Pearce made a few remarks; after which, on the
motion of Mr. B>. A. March, seconded by Mr. Thos. Blyton, the best
thanks of the association were unanimously accorded to Mr. Fitz¬
Gerald for his memoir, and the proceedings closed.
On Monday evening next, at the fortnightly meeting of the National
Association of Spiiitualists, 38, Great Russell-street, London, a paper
will be read on “ The Evolution Theory considered in its relation to
Psychology,” by Mr. G. F. Green, author of the second prize essay on
Spiritualism.
In Yera Cruz a little girl has been developed as a medium under the
following circumstances, says La Ley de Amor of Yucatan. Her mother
having died a violent death, the child claimed to see a spirit always
following her. It finally came to the ears of a friend, a Spiritualist,
who caused a circle to be formed. Since that time she has had no
fear of apparitions, and is said to converse with them freely.
A Correction.—Sir,—In the course of my letter, which you were
good enough to insert last week, I endeavoured to expose the assump¬
tion of “Scrutator” that a medium of elementary spirits is conceived
by Col. Olcott to be himself in no better plight, “ So that if the
elementary does it,” I wrote, “‘Scrutator’ appears to think, the
medium must be an (embodied)^ elementary also.” I am sorry to find
that I wrote must so like “ cannot ” that the sentence, as printed, is
the exact reverse of what I wrote, and makes the whole position un¬
intelligible—reading as if I. were supporting the proposition attributed
by “ Scrutator ” to Col. Olcott, instead of utterly denying that it was
ever held.—C. C. Massey.
i THREE ANECDOTES ABOUT GHOSTS.
The following anecdotes are taken from the Diary of
Crabb Robinson, Barrister-at-Law, and at one time Foreign
Editor of The Times. Two of them are related by Flax-
man. This proof of his belief in spiritual communication
is interesting, as Mr. Benjamin Coleman has in his posses¬
sion a highly artistic spirit-drawing, purporting to have
been executed by Flaxman.
Crabb Robinson’s Diary, vol. ii., pp. 222-3, No. 1.
Feb. 25,1822.
I went to Aders, and found him and his wife alone. An
interesting conversation. Mrs. Aders talked in a tone of
religion which I was pleased with. At the same time she
showed a tendency to superstition which I could only wonder
at. She has repeatedly had dreams of events which subse¬
quently occurred^ and sometimes with circumstances that
rendered the coincidence both significant and wonderful.
One is remarkable, and worth relating. She dreamed, when
in Germany, that a great illumination took place—of what
kind she was not aware. Two luminous balls arose. In one
she saw her sister, Mrs. Longdale, with an infant child in
her arms. On the night of the illumination on account of
the coronation, years after the dream, she was called by
Miss Watson to see a ball, or luminous body, which had
been let off at Hampstead. She went into the room, and
on a sudden it flashed on her mind with painful feelings:
“ This is what I saw in my dream.” That same evening
| her sister died. She had been lately brought to bed—the
child lived.
j Flaxman’s Anecdotes (Nos. 2 and 3).—Crabb Robinson’s Diary, vol. ii.,
pp. 261-2.
Dec. 3,1823.
I dined in Castle-street, and then took tea with Flaxman.
A serious conversation on Jung’s Tkeorie der Geisterkunde
(Theory of the Science of Spirits). Flaxman is prepared to
go a very great way with Jung, for though he does not
I believe in animal magnetism, and has a strong and very
| unfavourable opinion of the art, and though he does not
! believe in witchcraft, he does believe in ghosts; and he
! related the following anecdotes as confirming his belief:—
Mr. E ordered of Flaxman a monument for his wife, and
! directed that a dove should be introduced. Flaxman sup¬
posed it was an armorial crest, but on making inquiry was
informed it was not, and was told this anecdote as explana-
| tory of the required ornament:—When Mrs. E was on
her death-bed, her husband, being in the room with her,
perceived she was apparently conversing with some one.
On asking her what she was saying, Mrs. E  replied—
| “ Do you not see Miss at the window ?” “ Miss ■ ——
I is not here,” said the husband. “ But she es,” said
| Mrs. E ; “ she is at the window, standing with a dove
| in her hand, and says she will come again to me on Wed¬
nesday.” Now this Miss , who was a particular friend
| of Mrs. E , resided at a distance, and had been dead
| three months. Whether her death was known to Mrs. E ,
| I cannot say. On the Wednesday Mrs. E died.
Flaxman also related that he had a cousin, a Dr. Flax¬
man, a Dissenting minister^ who died many years ago. Flax¬
man, when a young man, was a believer in ghosts, the Doctor
an unbeliever. A warm dispute on the subject having taken
place, Mr. F. said to the Doctor, “ I know you are a very
candid as well as a very honest man; I now put it to you
whether, though you are now thus incredulous, you have
| never experienced anything which tends to prove that
appearances of departed spirits are permitted by Divine
Providence?” Being thus pressed, the Doctor confessed
that the following circumstances had taken place :—There
came to him once a very ignorant and low fellow who lived
I in his neighbourhood, to ask him what he thought of an
occurrence that had taken place the preceding night. As
I he lay in bed, on a sudden a very heavy and alarming noise
! had taken place in a room above him, where no one was,
j and which he could not account for. He thought it must
| come from a cousin of his at sea, who had promised to come
! to him whenever he died. The Doctor scolded at the man,
| and sent him off. Some weeks afterwards the man came
j again to tell him that his cousin, he had learned, was drowned
; that very night.
* Goethe.
114
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 8, 1878.
THE POWER OF SPIRITS OYER MATTER.
BX HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD, J.P.
PRIVATE SEANCES. |
EEMABICABLE LEVITATION OF PONDERABLE SUBSTANCES, } j
Last Saturday night, at a private stance held at the house j
of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor- |
square, London, with Mr. Eglinton as medium^ a remarkable j
manifestation took place. The doors of the drawing-room j
were locked,, and the members of the circle were sitting |
round the table in the following order, with their hands |
interlinked: Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George Sutherland, !
Miss Merriman, Mr. J. W. Fletcher, Mrs. Wiseman, Mr. j
W. H. Harrison, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mrs. Fletcher, j
Mr. Eglinton, and a private medium. Thus Mr. Serjeant
Cox sat between the latter medium and Mr. Sutherland, and
under these, conditions he was rapidly raised in the air, and
placed, chair and all, on the centre of the table, and was
seen there when a light was struck; his hands were still
holding those of his neighbours on either side of him. He
said that one or two previous attempts had been made to
place.him there, by the raising of his chair a foot or two
from the floor.
While the hands of the sitters were interlinked, spirit
forms which sometimes were faintly illuminated, were seen
by everybody in the room, and a tune was played upon a
piano five or six yards away from the nearest sitter to it;
at the same time a musical instrument was playing in the j
air, and two separate messages were being spelt out by raps I
upon the table, to two different members of the circle.
A voice, claiming to be that of James Lombard, one of !
Mrs. Bassett’s spirit guides, addressed the sitters in his j
characteristic and very peculiar tone, which was but slightly !
modified by the new condition of communicating through |
another medium
Last Wednesday night, at another dark at the house |
of Mrs. Gregory, Mr. Arthur Cdlman was the medium ; the j
sitters were Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mrs. Ramsay, Mrs.
Wiseman, and two other ladies; also Mr. J. W. Fletcher, j
Mr. Alexander Monro, Sir Joscelyn Coghill, Major Coghill, j JI
and Mr. Harrison. Voice manifestations, a few small spirit j j
lights, and some gentle floating of musical instruments, as j !
usual in dark circles, were given for the benefit of the in- j
quirers present. Mr. Colman then produced some pieces of !
white paper, size about four inches by three, which were j
casually noticed by the company to be blank on both sides, I
and particularly noticed to be so by Mrs. Ramsay. In the !
light he tore a piece off the corner of each, giving the corners ] j i
to various sitters, after which, in the dark, in from five to j j
ten seconds, an elaborate and artistic likeness of Napoleon I., ]
was drawn in pencil upon one of the pieces of paper; it | i
was such a drawing as might have been quickly executed in i j
fifteen or twenty minutes, in the light, by a clever and ex- j
perienced mortal artist. The torn-off corner was found by |
the sitter who had retained it to fit exactly the piece of paper j j
on which the drawing had been executed. This manifestation j
harmonises with many previously on record in Spiritualistic j
literature, in which drawings and writings have been executed |
by direct spirit agency, in an incredibly short time.
After this had been done, a spirit, John Scott, communi- j
cated by the direct voice. He said that he did not know who
executed the drawing; that he had had to concentrate all
his powers on the production of the voice; that after the
seance was over, he would probably know who did the
drawing, yet possibly might not be able to ascertain; that a j
higher power than his was controlling all the manifestations j
through his medium; he would not give information as to |
the identity of that ruling power.
Next Saturday, March. 9th, and next Monday, Mr. C. E. Williams !
will not give his usual public stances. Last Wednesday he gave a !
seance in Oxford. . {
A New Medium.—A correspondent writes from Wisbeach that a j |
phrenologist induced him to form a spirit circle at home, and while no jj j
believer in Spiritualism was present, such loud raps came that he j(j
broke up the seance out of nervousness. A lady member of the family m
was afterwards discovered to be the medium. At the next sitting the j)i
spirits played a concertina, and kept time to the music with a hand-bell; * j J!
they also tied knots in a handkerchief. At the next seance the medium j} i
was entranced, and began to talk fluently in German, a language she \\ j
does not understand in her normal state. At the following sitting the Ms
spirits materialised a hand. We have advised the medium to have ijj
nothing to do do with dark seances or cabinets, but to sit for the i|j
development of manifestations in daylight only, such being much ! i
wanted.
On Friday last I was present at a very successful seance
with Mr. Haxby as medium, at the house of Mrs. Corner at
Hackney. The sitters comprised Mrs. Corner and her
daughter, and two other ladies, Major Walsh, Colonel
Hervey, and Captain James. At the preliminary dark
sitting, while we all held hands, the mouth-organ was played
very prettily, and numerous bugle calls were given, which
were recognised by the military gentlemen. The music
wound up with The Dead March in Saul. Mr. Haxby then
retired behind the curtain in the corner of the room, and
the sitters formed a horseshoe round the table fronting the
cabinet, Captain James and I occupying the two middle
places, so that we had the entire table between us and the
cabinet. In order to explain what followed I must premise
that Captain James and I had heen at a seance in South
Audley-street the previous Wednesday, when Abdullah had
taken a handkerchief from a lady, and, holding out his bare
arms, had rubbed the handkerchief in his hands till it
seemed to disappear, telling us it should be brought back on
a subsequent occasion. When Abdullah came out on Friday
evening, I was struck with his being so much shorter and
dumpier than usual, he appearing to be about the average
height of a woman of five feet three inches, or four inches,
instead of his usual height of over five feet eight inches. I
was remarking this difference to Captain James when the
voice of Joey cried out, “ Do not be in a hurry,” and pre¬
sently Abdullah came out of the cabinet, of his usual size.
The first thing he did was to go to Mrs. Corner, who sat next
him on one side, and show her something that I was too far
off to see. Joey called on Captain James and me to guess
what it was, and on our giving it up, he told us that it was
the handkerchief which had disappeared at South Audley-
street on the previous Wednesday. Abdullah then pro¬
ceeded to make a little packet of the handkerchief, wrapping
it up in brown paper in the sight of Mrs. Corner on one
side of the circle, and Major Walsh and the lady who was
next him on the other side. I was too far off to see what
he was doing, being nine or ten feet from the cabinet, I
suppose. Joey then asked the company where the handker¬
chief should be transferred to. Colonel Hervey, who was
on my right, told them to hide it in his pocket, but Joey
said that would not do, as he wanted to return it to its
owner. I said I would restore it to her on Wednesday if
they would put it in my pocket. Joey immediately cried
out : 4‘ It is done I Look in your coat pocket.” And sure
enough there it lay, underneath my own pocket-handker¬
chief. Abdullah had never been within eight or nine feet of
me.
31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London.
Mrs. Bassett, whose mediutnship was noticed a fortnight ago in
The Spiritualist, resides at 9, Chobham-terrace, Stratford, London, E.
The Australian Spiritualist periodical, The Harbinger of Light,
anticipates with pleasure the approaching visit of Mrs. Hardinge-
Britten to the colony.
“ Annie Thomas ” informs us that she is about to bring out an
annual, called Ours; the Countess of Caithness and the Duke de
Pomar will be among the contributors to its pages.
Lifts in the Veil is, perhaps, the most refined and elegant work as
yet printed in connection with Spiritualism. There is a rapidly
increasing demand for it, in consequence of the public having begun to
discover its value.
On Sunday next Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a trance address in the
Town Hall, Cardiff; subject, “The Religious Needs of the Age.”
Service at 6.30 p.m. Mr. Morse will also deliver trance addresses in
the Stuart Hall, Cardiff, on the evenings of March 11th, 12th, 13th,
14th, and 15th; subjects to be chosen by the audience each evening.
On Wednesday next, at the soiree of the National Association of
Spiritualists, to be held at 38, Great Russell-street, London, Mr. A.
Calder, President of the Association, will read a paper giving a retro¬
spect of Spiritualism during the past year. These soirees can be attended
by all Spiritualists, and not members and their friends only.
Professional physical mediums who can get good test phenomena,
that is to say, get manifestations when they are held hand and foot in
the houses of disbelievers, are now so scarce in London, that all their
evenings are engaged from two to three weeks in advance. There is not
much demand for mediums with second-rate powers.
115
Makch 8, 1878, THE SPIRITUALIST.
OTorraponuence. |
[Great freedom is giwn, to tor respondents,who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed !
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.]
MRS. SHOWERS ON “ ISIS UNVEILED.” j j
Sir,—Recently Sir Charles Isham has been so kind as to send us j j
Madame Blavatsky’s book, and after a partial perusal of it (for I have i (
not yet read the whole) I feel puzzled to discover why such a mass of j I
vituperation and borrowed matter has caused so much commotion in | ]
the Spiritualistic world. It can only be because the pretensions of j i
Madame Blavatsky have misled many, as they have Miss Kislingbury, j1
and that this lady is not solitary in the belief that the substance of |!
Madame Blavatsky’s knowledge has been obtained, “ not as a mere
traveller, but as a dweller among the Hindoos; a Buddhist among
Buddhists, an initiate into their mysteries as taught in the temples of
Egypt, the pagodas of India, and the Lamaseries of Thibet.”
It requires no very extensive acquaintance with the customs and the
modern religions of the East to discover the inaccuracy of this state- j
ment, and I beg to assure Miss Kislingbury and others that Madame
Blavatsky knows just as much of the Orientals with whom she professes |
to have lived on such terms of intimacy, as she does of those Christians
with whom she is living, and with whom it appears she is decidedly not
intimate. In the one instance her knowledge has been derived not
from any original sources, but from the unwearied and immortal efforts j
of that vast army of explorers and writers, those Christian inheritors
of our Christian civilisation, who have disentombed and deciphered the
long-buried records of the East, and have demonstrated and proclaimed
alike to Buddhist and Brahmin, to Zoroastrian and to Egyptian, what [
their religions were in the almost antediluvian days of their early |
^freshness and purity, ere they faded away under the baneful influence j
of corrupting forces, and in obedience to the eternal law that men and j
empires and religions, in their turn, must pass away. On the other |
hand, from the writings of apostate priests, from the testimony of
obscure authors, from all those who are interested and ever busy in
falsifying evidence to suit their own ends, Madame Blavatsky has dili¬
gently culled those impure passages which ought to make Pagan and
Christian blush, not for Catholicism, certainly not for Protestant
Christianity, but for those who can thus bespatter purity and sincerity
with filth, because their own vision is too blurred to discern them. She I
has imputed to the faith that has gained the respect if not the allegiance
of the moral and educated world—the faith that numbers in its ranks
our children, our parents, and our friends—^practices and crimes that
did not pass unreproved even among the Romans, when in the last
stage of their own social corruption they implored the Emperor j
Tiberius to order the destruction of that temple of Isis whose worship
it is now suggested that Spiritualists should restore.
The Egypt of the present day is under Mohammedan rule. The
Temples of Karnac, of Luxor, and of Memphis, are in ruins. The j
statue of Memnon may still utter its wail at sunrise, but the voices
that echoed through those Sphinx-formed alleys are mute. Astrologer, !
and prophet, and magician, passed away for ever long centuries ago.
It cannot be pretended that Madame Blavatsky went through an j
“ initiation ” under such circumstances as these. :
The worship of the Hindoos was, no doubt, a sublime and solemn
ceremony, while the Aryan faith was yet in its purity in the days
when the Yedas were written, and the worshippers, as the Vedic hymn
says,—
Quaffed the soma bright,
And seemed immortal grown,
And entered into light,
And all the gods had known;
but it has degenerated into a loathsome thing now. The Juggernaut
worship, the adoration of the terrifying goddess Kali, the worship of
Siva, with his neck adornments of human skulls, and his earrings of j
serpents, all show the depths to which the ancient faith has fallen.
Neither Miss Kislingbury nor I would relish a tete-a-tete with one of i
those swarthy, nude, and paint-bespattered fakirs at any time, and it
would be at our peril that we presumed to set foot in the temples. I
think we would find, moreover, that the religions of his country were I
just about the last subjects that our friend would care to discuss. The
women who are loved and honoured among Eastern nations never |
show their faces in public. No greater indignity can be offered an
Oriental, whether Brahmin or Mahommedan, than an inquiry after
the welfare of his family, or regarding the health of his female
relatives.
The feminine attendants round and about the temples are those who
make an open profession of unchastity, and a glory and pride of it. I j
forward you a paper received from India by the last mail, and if you j
like to publish the article I have marked, it will be seen that my
assertions are true.
The disgusting remains of the Phallic worship, which one would be
puzzled to discover in the processions and ceremonies of our Christian
churches, are patent to all who may chance to witness some of the
sacred Hindoo festivals, where men give way to every form of drunken !
licentiousness, while even the menial class of native women steadily
confine themselves within the precincts of their dwellings for three and
four days at a time.
The gross ignorance that prevails most unfortunately among Pro¬
testants (from whom our spiritualistic ranks are mainly recruited)
regarding the parent religion—Catholicism—renders it a practically j
safe proceeding for all who are so disposed to circulate slander upon
slander against Catholic religious communities, knowing that, owing
to the fanaticism of some, and the indifference or indolence of others,
few will care to put their statements to the test.
Without presuming to enter into a discussion regarding the nature of 1
the Second Person of the Christian Trinity, whether God as believed by
millions, or “ Man in manhood more Divine, than any God created
there,” as affirmed by others, I may say that He seems, either way,
equally an object of adoration, being our highest ideal both of humanity
and Deity, and those who, regardless of ecclesiastical contentions, bow
before His cross, sign it on the brows of their children, or engrave it
above the dust of their treasured dead, care little to be reminded of any
! signification it might possibly have borne during the period of the foul
| 0 siris worship of Egypt. The student of history discerns, only too
I plainly, that wherever Christianity has planted its standard it has dis-
| placed something that was worse,'never anything that was better. “ Higher
| has the thought of man not attained,” and while that same history bears
testimony, both willingly and unwillingly to its great facts, and the con-
| science of man, in a state of intellectual enlightenment, responds to the
teachings of the Gospels, we need certainly not follow the derisive
i counsel of Colonel Olcott, or “ ask the people of Asia to guide the people
I of Europe into the path that leads to happiness.”
| Of Thibet and its lamasaries I unfortunately know only about as
| much as most people do; but that small knowledge is quite sufficient to
j enable me to tell Mr. O’Sullivan and others, who are bewailing their
j approaching bereavement, to be of good heart! It appears to me,
though my opinion must only be taken for what it is worth, that Madame
Blavatsky will not be so cruel as to cross the snow-capped Himalayas,
and bury herself for ever with her bosom friends the Lamas. I think
it far more likely that she will prolong her sojourn in America, or pro¬
bably visit Europe, and probe still further the infinite depths of human
credulity. 1
U In justice to her, however, I must admit that, in the preface to her
| second volume, she patronisingly takes a few Christians, not very particu-
II larly indicated, under her wing, and speaks of them with favour, as being
[ u better than their creed.” Those, I think, are her words. Poor, help-
! less, ignorant things! How grateful they must feel for the crumb thus
I compassionately flung to them ere they are reconsigned to the fools’
11 paradise, in which they seem to have long existed, and are supposed to
(| be far too stupid ever to leave. Your voice now reaches, every Continent,
j! sir, your words are perused with attention, even amid the din of political
agitation, wherever the sincere and earnest heart of man is endeavouring
to solve the greatest of all problems by the light of Spiritualism ; and
it is right that it should be so, for this message, entrusted to you and a
few others, is higher than any that herald has yet proclaimed. It is that
the old and beautiful Semitic myth of Genesis is yet no fable, that God
and His messengers converse with man to-day, even as it is alleged
they once conversed in Eden. Yes, here—here to-day; even in this
poor, miserable, sinful, money-making world; not in halls where mirth
and festivity prevail, not among men flushed from the banquet, or
women intoxicated with vanity and flattery, but where two or three are
gathered with prayerful heart and solemn earnestness: in a word,
wherever the stricken soul of man exclaims, “ Lord, I would believe—
Oh, help Thou mine unbelief.”
No medium can effect what Almighty God and all His hierarchies of
angels decline to effect—that is, convert a man to Spiritualism without
great and corresponding effort on his own part. Should he by any
I chance arrive at a belief in the physical manifestations, his Spiritualism
becomes a torment to him; he in turn becomes a torment—often a dis-
| grace to Spiritualists, nothing more.
The ancients understood this so well, that no candidate was admitted
| to the Eleusinian mysteries—which were but seances under different cir-
| cumstances—without undergoing a previous purification of nine days,
during which his character was made a subject of strict inquiry. On
j entering the temple, he was most solemnly admonished to come with a
pure and undefiled mind, without which the purity of the body would
not be acceptable. Any person who infringed these rules, or entered with-
| out a proper introduction, was punished even with death. They had the
lights, the sounds, the apparitions, all that we witnessed among ourselves
during the memorable period of my daughter’s development at Teign-
mouth, as described by me in your paper four years ago. That these
mysteries referred only to the dead and to a future state, is evident from
the circumstances that they were instituted in honour of Ceres
j Demeter, and to commemorate her grief and sorrow at the loss of her
daughter Proserpine, whom she seeks in the infernal regions, whither
| Proserpine has been carried by Pluto, the inexorable god, who holds
i ] the keys of the kingdoms of death and of hell. One thing seems parti-
I j cularly remarkable to me, the candidates for initiation were compelled to
| J bathe in the sea; and I have already published, and have in my pos-
ij session the original spirit writings in which “Peter” frequently
II endeavoured to calm our terrors (for we were alone, and inexperienced),
j by such messages as “ I won’t hurt you—but bathe in the sea,” &c., &c„
11 a condition on which he insisted, and which appeared to us absurd at
| the time. As I have already told you frequently, the investigation into
| Spiritualism was undertaken at a time when I was an utter and entire
j disbeliever, and after a terrible domestic bereavement,
j The Spiritualist of the future will see the deep signification of the
i so-termed heathen mythology far more clearly than we can discern it
I now; and the farther he studies the religions of nations, the more
I convinced he will feel that “ the spot whereon he stands is holy ground.”
I The Spiritualism that Paganism has practised and too frequently prosti-
I tuted, that Catholicism has recognised and veiled, that Protestantism
| has abandoned and derided, will shine forth for him with unprecedented
i clearness, for it will be lit by no uncertain, straggling beam, but by the
j | torch held up on high by Christianity. Will he then, think you, sir,
11 amid the assured advantages of his own happy position, forget the
f | noble army of martyrs who have suffered and died for him ? Will he,
(I Blavatsky-like, gloat over the sins and frailties of ever-erring, but ever-
(| penitent humanity ? Will he feel -disposed to smite the crucified
I Jesuit, or mock the burning Hebrew, or deride the poisoned philosopher ?
I No ! Face to face with that ancient and eternal truth, whiclrthey had also
t i discerned and acknowledged, with that ancient and solemn beauty which
116
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March S, 1878.
they had also recognised and worshipped, will he not rather bow down in j
humble adoration, and owning his own blessedness, inasmuch as he has (
seen, and has believed, exclaim :—“ Blessed—aye perhaps even more j
blessed—were they who died within reach of the promised land, who j
had not seen, and yet had believed! ”
It would contribute not a little to our enlightenment if Madame
Blavatsky would kindly furnish us with some of her own personal /
experiences with regard to the Fakir performances; with dates and (
other particulars that could be verified, for India is no sealed land
of mystery to Englishmen, and a European lady travelling about in (
the manner alleged, with a Fakir and a juggler—(see Vol. I., p. 368)— jj
must have attracted a good deal of attention. It is not usual to take j)
one’s “noonday repose ” under the circumstances alleged, even in that |
somewhat unconventional land. (
We would wish also to learn the whereabouts of some of those pools, [ j
round which Fakirs have sat, in the presence of the authoress, “ in / j
circles, while alligators have crawled out, and played like kittens.” J |
Somebody else must have heard of these wonders, and might sub- [ |
stantiate Madame Blavatsky’s statements. j
For more than 368 pages no allusion whatever is made to Madame (|
Blavatsky’s own experiences, and we feel naturally surprised, therefore, j
to find her saying—“ With deep regret we once more leave India; its ; M
blue sky and its mysterious past.” Leave it! Why, she has never i
once mentioned it, except to quote some one else’s experiences there, j
and we do not want to know what Jacolliot saw, or what Champollion |
described of the countries visited, but what Madame Blavatsky saw, and j
the circumstances under which she saw. Frederica Showers.
103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, London. (I
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS. I j
Sir,—I wish to give you a brief account of what took place at my |
house on the evening of Feb. 24th. Six persons sat round a small |
table. Mr. W. Eglinton, Mr. A. Colman, and two ladies are mediums; j
the two remaining gentlemen are simply observers of facts. i
When the light was turned off, and our hands were joined around the |
table, the musical boxes were wound, started, and went flying through j j
the air as they played, with immense rapidity. Mr. Colman became •
clairvoyant, so that in the perfect darkness he could see everything that |
was done. The proof that he saw was this: “ I see a female form, |
partially materialised. She is forming a hand; now she is going to jj
touch your forehead.” At this instant I felt my forehead touched, j
fingered, by the slender, delicate fingers of a female hand, which made j j j
for me a special sign. The same thing occurred to several of us. j j
Colman then said: “ The hand approaches the centre of the table; it j j
takes up a pencil; it is going to write.” I heard then the sound of JI
writing, and I had laid upon the table a sheet of marked notepaper. I j
“ The pencil goes very fast—it goes like steam,” said the clairvoyant, j j
In fact, after about a minute, a light was rapped for, and we found a j l!
little over a page of close writing in the well-known hand of a young i j
lady who departed this life several years ago, and on the other leaf a T|
drawing of a mediseval Mater Dolorosa, of a very remarkable character, j j j
No living hand could have done the work in half an hour. j
When the light was extinguished the voice of “ Joey ” said to the | j
lady who sat between Mr. Eglinton and Mr. Colman, “ Hold Colman’s j j
hand very firmly; I want to give you a manifestation.” In an instant a j j
light was rapped for, and the chair in which Colman had been sitting ! > j
was found hanging on the lady’s left arm. Matter through matter, if as ! j
she declared, the hands had not been separated. This experience was j j I
then repeated, and the chair found threaded on the lady’s right arm, the j} i
one next to Mr. Eglinton. “ I will take my oath that I held his hand ! j
firmly every instant,” said the lady. For a third time the same thing j j j
was done for the other lady in the circle, Mr. Eglinton’s chair being j j
taken from under him and placed upon her left arm. j j j
I have no reason to doubt that the three ladies on whose arms I have i j j
seen chairs thus four times threaded have in each case firmly clasped i j
the hands they held, without one instant’s severance; and I take this j j
testimony as I would the evidence of my own consciousness. j j
At a subsequent sitting in the dark we had a very elaborate copy of j | j
an JEcce Homo drawn on a card, the torn corner of which was in my j 11
pocket, inside of two minutes. I examined the blank card the moment j (I
before I turned off the light, and took the comer. I heard the pencil ! j
working in the darkness scarcely more than a foot from my face ; then ! j
the pencil fell upon the table, and I lighted the gas. The result is a j j
masterly copy of one of the grandest pictures in the world. i
T. L. Nichols, M.D. j J
32, Fopstone-road, London, S.W. i i
Sir,—On Saturday, March 2nd, at 8.30 p.m., I attended a seance at j j
Mr. Williams’s, 61, Lambs Conduit-street, London. Altogether twelve j j
persons, including the medium, were present. The lights were no | (j
sooner extinguished than we were touched by materialised hands. The j j
musical-box, being floated, was set going in mid-air, and the fairy bells j j j
were played and carried from one room to another, and by request i i
struck the cabinet. Then direct spirit voices were heard. I soon recog- ! j
nised that of “John King,” and when he spoke to me I asked him if it I j
were possible to float me, to which he modestly answered that he would j j
try. By this time we had quite a conversation : such a one as we might ! j
expect where several ladies met, who had not seen one another for a j j
long time, and consequently were eager to communicate their latest jj
discoveries. No less than five direct voices were speaking at the same j )j
time, the physical manifestations continuing without interruption. I j j
was no sooner aware of a spirit hand touching me than I heard a voice j j
immediately on my right, saying, “You wish to float?” to which I i i
answered, “Yes, please and had no sooner uttered the words than j jj
up I went, chair and all, and found myself comfortably on the table. | j j
On my right sat the medium, and on my left Mrs. Fitz-Gerald. I did j [j
pot relinquish my hold of their hands, We were laughing at this droll
position, when suddenly I felt that another besides myself had the
honour of such an exalted position, and that it was the medium. I
still had hold of his hand and that of the lady mentioned. The signal
for a light was given, and we were discovered sitting on the table—I
none the worse for my aerial flight, and the medium just awaking from
a trance and knocking his head against the gas-lamp suspended overhead.
Mr. Williams then requested all of us to take our chairs into the next
room, where the cabinet stood, and I assisted him in carrying the same
table into it. He then requested any one who might feel inclined to
secure him, to walk into the cabinet and do so, but no one thinking it
necessary, be sat down and the light was extinguished. The spirit voices
were again heard, and suddenly, on that side of the table farthest from
the cabinet, we saw the outline of a figure, which by and by grew
brighter, until we recognised John King. In turn he showed himself
to each of us, and had a kind word into the bargain. I then saw the
form gradually sinking, as it were, into the ground. Immediately after
that I saw him float overhead and disappear in the ceiling. I next saw
him in the cabinet, when he requested several to walk up to look in.
He asked whether I would come. I, being perfectly satisfied, did not
think it necessary, but he did ; consequently took me by the hand, led
me up to the door of the cabinet, which was wide open at the time ; he
requested me to stand there, and then I saw him standing fully ma¬
terialised, turban and all, while the medium was sitting in a deep trance,
resting his head upon his breast. As I said before, John King had hold
of my hand all the while. He now requested me to feel the medium
with the other hand—saying that seeing was not always believing—
which I did, and was fully satisfied it was the medium. Amongst
those who were present I will mention Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Dr. Peebles,
and Mr. and Mrs. Ashman ; the names of the others I know not, but
have no doubt that they will willingly testify to this letter, if necessary.
I can only say that I have never before seen such a variety of manifes¬
tations and spirits who so volunteered to and insisted upon being
tested. This only proves that mediums ought fully to develop them¬
selves, and then they will find that both spirit and medium are enabled
to give satisfaction and submit to any test.
J. H. Herbst, from Cape Town, South Africa.
IS SPIRITUALISM A RELIGION?
Sir,—I perceive in your last number that your able contributor,
“ M.A., Oxon.,” has a great deal too cheerfully accepted the proposition
“ that Spiritualism is a religion.” It has been often affirmed, but I can¬
not help thinking that it is a prodigious fallacy. The most experienced
writers on the subject have spoken of the “ evil side” of Spiritualism,
and cautioned us against its “ dangers-.” Three-fourths of the manifes¬
tations are vulgar, ribald, false, lying, mischievous, and diabolical. Can
a thing which produces such fruit be entitled to the name of a religion?
Doubtless it is, and ought to be, utilised to a religious purpose; but this
is a very different affair. It appears to me that Spiritualism is a system
of knowledge, which deals with supernatural occurrences and the
spiritual nature of things, good, bad, or indifferent. Religion is that
rule of faith and conduct which teaches us our duty to God and our
neighbour, which guides us in the path of holy living, and which shows
us how man can be redeemed. Surely, the function of religion is very
different from that of Spiritualism, although there can be no reason why
they should not aid each other. In fact, Spiritualism is full of danger
until it is purified and ennobled by the influence of religion. The ques¬
tion is, which is the best religion with which Spiritualism can be allied ?
Another very skilful contributor of yours, Mr. Massey, insinuates
that sheep and oxen are not immortal. Oh dear! oh dearl When
will Spiritualists accept the most elementary truths of Spiritualism.
Among these truths there is none more certain than this, that every
material thing has a spiritual existence, *.e., a soul; and souls differ in
quality and degree as much as physical objects differ from each other.
Spiritualism will always be a mass of confusion and blundering until
it is carefully studied with the aid of clairvoyance, and by the light of
religion. Theodore Ellis.
2nd March, 1878. —■ ■
SPIRITUALISM IN GLASGOW.
Sir,—During my stay of one month in Glasgow, I had the pleasure
of becoming acquainted with many of the leading Spiritualists of the
place, as well as having the privilege of attending a few private seances.
I thought, when in Belfast, that it was the most bigoted, sectarian town
1 ever had visited, but I must apologise, confess ignorance, and give
Glasgow that honour.
The Spiritualists are not a large body here, but seem to be well
united, quality, not quantity, being the order of the day. I attended
four public meetings of the Spiritualist’s Society, and had the privilege
of hearing two carefully compiled papers read; one by Mr. Walker, a
veteran Spiritualist, on “ Mesmerism,” and one by Mr. Robertson, on
the “Advantages of Spiritualism; ” and last, though not least, two able
and eloquent lectures by the guides of Mr. J. J. Morse. The lectures
of Mr. Morse were given in the Albion Hall. The Spiritualists have,
in addition to the public Sunday evening services, two semi-private
meetings every week, on Wednesday and Saturday nights, at their hall
in the Trongate. Strangers are admitted to these meetings by the intro¬
duction of members of the society. On Saturday nights a seance is held
for trance-speaking and physical manifestations, Mr. David Duguid
being the principal medium, but while Mr. J. J. Morse was here his
guides occupied the time.
Not the least interesting event of my stay was the opportunity of
attending a seance by invitation of Mr. D. Duguid. I have frequently
come in contact with mediums, of nearly all classes, descriptions, and
pretensions, but I have seldom been in the society of one so unassuming
and unpretentious as Mr. David Duguid. Mr. Duguid was formerly a
cabinet-maker, but is now in the employ of Mr. J. Bowman, photo¬
grapher, of Jamaica-street, Glasgow, and appears to me to be about
March 8. 1878. THE SPIRITUALIST. 117
forty-five years of age; married; has a pretty large family; all his
children are medial, but not to the extent of their father. In company
of Mr. Bowman, I went to Mr. Duguid’s house on Tuesday evening,
the 25th, to attend the seance, and as soon as I entered the house,
became conscious of the presence of the unseen ones by the strong
aural surroundings, which are much better felt than described. There
was much to cheer and please in the presence of the medium’s wife and
children; a quiet happiness seemed to pervade the place. To say I
felt at home is the highest compliment I can pay these worthy people.
After a chat in the kitchen we all retired to the parlour at eight o’clock,
to hold the seance. The circle consisted of Mr. Nesbit, printer and pub¬
lisher ; Mr. Q-arrivale, secretary of the circle; Mr. Simpson, honorary
secretary of the Glasgow Spiritualists’ Society; the medium, Mr. Duguid,
and myself. The medium was soon controlled, like one simply passing
into a gentle sleep. His spirit friends answered a number of questions
put by members of the circle; the questions were chiefly of a theological
character, and indicated to my mind the status of the questioners.
The answers were of an advanced and progressive nature. Two hours
were consumed in this way, during which advice as to the best method
of conducting the public service was given, as well as a promise that if
the friends wished it, the guides of the medium would materialise at the
Saturday night meetings in the Trongate. The spirits controlling
claimed to be Hermes, Hafed, and Steen, to which I sincerely accord
my belief, and I am led to do so from three considerations : 1st. From
all I have read in connection with these controls, and—2nd. hear
from persons of undoubted veracity who have attended the stances from
time to time. 3rd. From what was observed myself at this stance, and
shall now record as plainly as possible. At the conclusion of the first
part of the seance, already mentioned, Mr. Bowman asked “ Steen ”—
who was then in possession of the medium—if he would kindly do a
“ wee bit of a pictur ” for the stranger. The control kindly consented.
Mr. Duguid, while in the trance state, opened the large paint box
placed upon the table, prepared his paints and pallet; he then took a
small carte, and tore off a small piece of the corner, and gave
to me to hold, so as to be able to identify the card again.
This all took place in the light, and under our strict scrutiny. Now,
singular to state, I had no sooner got the small piece of card (the torn
piece) in my hand, and was just in the act of placing it in my purse,
when it was taken out of my fingers by some invisible power. Two
gentlemen sitting next to me saw it disappear, nor could it be found for
over five minutes, although the small room was carefully searched. It
was found under my chair at last. “ Steen ” desired the medium to be
thoroughly secured, and that every test I could suggest should be em¬
ployed. The medium was then thoroughly fastened to his chair, which
was placed about two feet from the small table, upon which the pallet
and paint box were. His hands were crossed and secured with a hand¬
kerchief, his arms were made fast to the back of the chair, and his legs
secured to the legs of the chair. All the fastenings were made doubly
secure, by covering them with gummed paper. Having satisfied myself
that the medium was thoroughly secured, so much so, that it would
have made any “ test-maniac ” blush to have seen him, the lights were
put out, and Mr. Bowman commenced to sing “ Auld Lang Syne,” in
which the rest of the company joined. At the conclusion of the fourth
verse, raps were given to “ light up,” which was done. A beautiful
miniature landscape was found, “the paint still wet,” upon the table.
Upon comparing the card with the tom corner, it was found to fit
exactly. I shall forward the painting for the inspection of visitors to
38, Great Russell-street. Although a “ trifle ” in itself, it is a link in
the mighty chain of evidence which binds the visible to the invisible.
During the painting of the picture I had an unasked for test of the
painting of it by super-human powers, and of its hot being touched by
mortal hands at all. When the gas was put out, the fitful gleams from
the fire, ever and anon brightened up the room, and it was found neces¬
sary before anything could be done to cover the fire. This was
done, still there was enough light (to my eyes) to make darkness
visible. I saw that the medium never moved from the position
in which he was at first placed, as there was light enough to discern
the slightest movement on his part; had he moved, it would have been
detected at once. The painting, although in several colours, was done
with two brushes only. I also saw the brushes rise untouched by human
hands, and silently and rapidly accomplish the work, as it were, of
painting a picture by themselves.
There is another little matter I must mention before I close. I find
the spirits who control Mr. Duguid do it so effectually, that while the
medium’s eyes are closed, and the pupils dilated, as in a mesmeric sleep,
they (the spirits) can see everything that is done upon the physical
plane. I gather this from a number of remarks I heard made by the
medium. For instance, I accidentally touched the table, which was a
slight distance from the medium; I had scarcely done so, when the
control immediately told me to be careful, not to do it again. Whether
these paintings are done in darkness or light, the phenomenon is truly
marvellous. Whether painted by the spirit of the medium, or, as
claimed, by the spirits of Steen and Ruysdael, it is worthy of our most
thoughtful attention and profound investigation. I give the facts, and
let theorists fight it out.
One word to Theosophists, spirit-of-the-mediumists, and mesmerists.
When they shall, one or all, produce a single rap, or the most elementary
physical phenomenon by occultism, magic, or will-power, then I shall be
prepared to believe that the wonders I here record were produced by the
spirit of David Duguid. Furthermore, I shall believe—slowly, calmly,
and deliberately (not say in haste)—“ that all men are liars,” in trance
and out of it, and that Hermes, Hafed, Ruysdael, and Steen are but
aliases of one David Duguid ; and that J. J. Morse, Tien Sien Tie, and
the Strolling Player are one and the same person.
I am now at Hull, and should be happy to work in co-operation with
any of the Spiritualists of the place, J. Coates.
29, Silver-street, Hull.
(j . theosophy.
! j Sir,—At the risk of departing somewhat from the stereotyped formula
I of commencing a letter with praise, let me take advantage of the per-
> I mission you give that opinions may be uttered in your journal, which
) I shall be diametrically opposed to those of yourself and readers- The
(I perfect fairness under which the Spiritualist has always been conducted,
{| and the patience with which persons of opposite views are tolerated,
ft embolden me to consider what reply could be given to the three
(I questions considered in your last issue:—1. “ What proof have (the
(| Theosophists) of the alleged conditional immortality of man ? ” The
)! answer to this is that they have never asserted such a doctrine. The
(j substitution of the word “conditional” for the term “ potential ” used
{\ by the Theosophists, is an alteration of terms which may blind English
) I readers to the real significance of their propositions. 2. “ What proof
) i (have they) of the existence of sub-human spirits ? ” Just so much as
(| any one else; and as much evidence as can be gathered from the printed
) | recitals of the ordinary seances for physical manifestations.
c I 3. The next question is more serious: “ What proof (have they) that
S | men by will-bower can produce any of the manifestations called
) | spiritual ? ” In reply to this, I shall be very happy to take up the
(i gauntlet, if interrogated by any member of the Theosophical Society. An
i! organisation the members of whom live apart, and have doubtless their
)! own methods of communication, may be able to test scientifically any
j | evidence which the professional scientific man—who would not willingly
) i commit himself to a hasty or inaccurate statement of . fact—lays before
(| it. The general public are, no doubt, very much prepared to accept
(I with avidity any tale of wonder, but those persons who do not
) ! Wear their heart upon their sleeve,
( i For daws to peck at,
) i have need alike to remember the precept of St. Polycarp respecting the
) ! people, “ Illos vero indignos puto, quibus rationem reddamf' and the
j i advice of Goethe:—
) j Das Beste, was du wissen Tcannst
) I Darfst du den Buben dock nicht sagen.
) j As the Theosophical society has never intruded itself on our notice, it
s | might be not less cautious than polite to refrain from offering tests or
) | demanding proofs from those who have not asked our advice, and do
II not value it.
{I Inside Spiritualism, of course, any body may offer any test which
) I pleases him, or satisfies those near him to his own series of phenomena,
<; and as in the case of the Femme JBarbue, materialised spirits must be
{I tested in a way foreign certainly to the method of the Theosophists. In
j | the “gay days of wickedness and wit” of the French second empire, I
| ] think I remember a comic song which exactly gives the programme for
{i which materialised spirits crave, and in the production of which
) I Theosophists cannot help them:—
) I Entrez dans mon etablissement,
) | Vous ne trouvereqpas dans toute la foire,
<! Aucune chose phis mteressant
\ Que cette barbe qui fait ma gloire.
< | To one who views the statements made by the Theosophists from the
|! point of view of anthropological science, I am struck with the extreme
I) probability of their opinions. That persons have existed, whether in
| j j Thibet, or the Lebanon hills, in the hidden mysteries of Egypt, or
j) \ contemplating the altars of Trimurti-like beings who once were gods,
|) | either outside the adytum of the old Cabeiri of Samotraki, or near the
| j ] temple of Hagia Kim at Malta, who had the literary faculty of com-
| j j prehending what they saw, and remembering what was told them,
i) | appears not to be too improbable a supposition. I hope that we shall
| J1 all be large-hearted enough to accept the theory that the wise men of
I j j the past, though they did not live in the age of cheap telephones, knew
|) j somewhat, and that occasional glimpses of that somewhat are cognisable
I j I and appreciable by ordinary students of history. If the teachers of the
I) | Theosophical Society cannot or will not give us ghosts d volonte, I hope
I) j that they will, at least, be let alone to follow out a system of philo-
i s i sophical investigation for the method of which they are alone responsible
) | to their own members, and for the results of which those who wish to
j) | know anything may become initiated by the ordinary channels of work
III which have been known for ages by those who are teachers in meta-
11! physic, as in the history of the regions of the East.
i) | C. Carter Blake.
| j! [1. On page 255 of The Spiritualist, Vol. XI., Col. Olcott says that a man,
1 (j “ having been completely debased on earth, he sinks deeper and deeper into
; (j matter, and is annihilated.” Thus it is alleged that, as the effect of conditions,
| j ] man may lose his immortality. 2. We have attended more seances, probably,
I) j than anybody in this country not a medium, and are not able to demonstrate
j i | that sub-human spirits produce some of the phenomena. 3. Yes. Where is
| (] the proof ? If it gives offence to Theosophists to be asked for proofs or facts,
I j j let it be so stated, and the public will take no further interest in a matter
j) ; presented to them merely in the form of unproved assertions.—Ed.]
Sir,—I have been, for the first time iu my life, I b&lreve,
accused, in print, of inexcusable epithets, such as “ unchari¬
table,” “self-righteous,” &c., for having thus demurred to certain
opinions of the Theosophists, which, to quote a leader in
The Spiritualist of March 1st, are “ Speculations and doctrines
set forth at great length without an atom of experimental or
produced evidence in their support,” and wherein, “ much is said about
unfortunate human beings who have ‘ lost their trinity, and who are
perishable ;’ ” doctrine'swhich, I must repeat, strike uncharitably on
the well-being of humanity, in the name of religion, and the Darwinian
! theory of “Natural Selection.” Well, I must acknowledge that com-
| mination without proof or authority is apt to breed counter-blasts; and
I syllabuses from self-elected synods are wont to produce protest in the
' name of humanity.
118
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 8, 1878.
But the head and front of my offending is that I accuse Colonel Olcott
of alleging that, “ The astral man or double, or soul, has lost its
divine vovs,” and that, consequently, as he also says, “ mediumistic
physical phenomena are not produced by pure spirits, but by ” souls em¬
bodied or disembodied, that, ergo, physical mediums have, according to
Colonel Olcott, lost their divine spirit, their trinity in short. And for
this Mr. Massey expects me to apologise; but this I cannot do to Mr.
Massey until he proves that I am wrong, which he has not yet done ;
but glad should I be, for the sake of the charity of the Theosophists, if I
could do so, and I only wish that Colonel Olcott himself would prove
the groundlessness of the charge, for it is, indeed, a dreadful one, on
living men. Mr. Massey asks me—“ Where, in any communication of
either Madame Blavatsky or Colonel Olcott, does ‘ M.A., Cantab.,’ find
the proposition, or anything like, or leading to, or possibly involving the
proposition that ‘the astral man, or double, or soul,’ is ‘ a soul that has
lost its divine vovq1? ” Why, here; where Colonel Olcott shows he has
lost it by the separation of soul and spirit for an incalculable length of
time. I acknowledge he makes an exception in the case of an amiable,
virtuous young lady, who was a powerful physical medium; but with
this exception, he appears to me to doom all physical mediums to the
category of astral men, mere material souls, who, during life, are
separated from their divine spirit, or who have lost it altogether,
and will be “annihilated.” I regret to have to repeat what
I have said before, but I do so in justice to myself and my readers. In
The Spiritualist of December 7th, Colonel Olcott says: “ To us man is
a trinity, not a duality; in short, we accept the philosophy, which is
the fundamental doctrine of all Oriental systems, and equally the basis
of the Greek, Roman, and other derivatives. Inside the physical body,
and permeating it, is an astral body, or soul, and these two are over¬
shadowed (illuminated and spiritualised) by a third—the divine, im¬
mortal spirit, the vovq, the ruach.” In all the above I agree with
Colonel Olcott, but he adds: “We believe that the man of flesh dies,
decays, and goes to the crucible of evolution, to be worked over and
over again; that the astral man (or double or soul), freed from physical
imprisonment, is followed by the consequences of his earthly deeds,
thoughts, and desires. He (the astral man or soul) either becomes
purged of the last traces of earthly grossness, and finally, after an in¬
calculable lapse of time, is joined (rejoined) to his divine spirit, and
lives for ever as an entity, or, having been completely debased on earth,
he (the astral man) sinks deeper and deeper into matter, and is annihi¬
lated. Usually the separation of soul and spirit occurs before the
bodily death. This is the rule, but still there are exceptions. The
soul, you perceive, we regard as matter, though exceedingly sublimated,
and as completely subject to the laws of matter as the physical body
itself.”
Now, I will ask any candid reader whether Colonel Olcott does not
here assume that the astral man or soul, mere matter, is separated from
the divine vovs for an incalculable length of time, and so lost to it for
that period ? And yet Mr. Massey asks: “ Where does M.A., Cantab.,
find the proposition that the astral man, or double, or soul, is a soul that
has lost its divine vovq ? ” It is mere hair-splitting, and a play upon
words, to make a distinction between the soul being separated from the
divine spirit for an incalculable length of time, till it find it again ; and
the soul being lost to the divine spirit for an incalculable length of time,
till it find it again. If I am separated from my purse for a long time,
with all its unpleasant consequences, though I find it again intact, it
will be very little comfort to say that it was not lost, only separated
from me. It was as good as lost for a long time, and so at any rate is
the soul, according to Colonel Olcott.
Mr. Massey says that Madame Blavatsky has defined the “ astral
man” in The Spiritualist oi February 8th ; and deprecates my want of
care in informing myself of her opinions on that point. Well, I read it,
but the letter signed “ Scrutator” was sent to the publisher before
Madame Blavatsky’s letter appeared, and what I then wrote and am
now writing about, is Colonel Olcott’s opinion* not Madame Blavatsky’s;
if they differ on this subject, also, it will be no novelty. But if I had
not read it there was no obligation that I should have done so. It is
just possible to have too much, even of a good thing; and I do not
profess to be above being led away by fascination ; so I have not read
her book. I could even commiserate Mr. Massey, who has read
Madame Blavatsky, when he tells us that he is “ under a sort of
compulsion to put forward opinions which ‘Scrutator’ dislikes,” did I
not know that the chosen few are to be envied, not pitied. I am,
however, curious concerning this hint about compulsion. Then there
really are some of these despised “controls” somewhere among the
occultists, either in the flesh or out of it, as is the case with the poor
Spiritualists. I had thought occultism was only a case of adepts, with
elementals entirely under their thumbs ; but, then, who knows who is
as yet an adept? Perhaps only the adepts of the inner ring are the
uncontrolled. Is there no right of private judgment for grown men who
are not yet adepts? And this brings me back to my alleged carelessness
in not having read Madame Blavatsky’s article more attentively. But,
after all, are we to throw ourselves unarmed into the enemy’s arms ?
Is there not sometimes wisdom in refusing to hear the voice of the
charmer, charm he ever so wisely ? Wise men have been sometimes
made slaves, even when they thought they had slaves at their feet;
and I desire to retain, in its entirety, my love for all mankind. Am I
to seek out, for instance, certain winning ways and discourses of a lady
to be found in a certain forest ? Well! talk of thraldom of strong men!
No Rosalind in the forest of Ardennes had a greater power over her
Orlando. A humble poet once sang
I would not lead a life j
With all his wisdom from above, I
Tho’ he’s not troubled with a wife,
And harmless as a sucking dove.
I would not be a harmless 
Even to cheat the undertaker. i
An angered wife may stir up strife,
But rarely gains complete ascendance,
Better for life a scolding wife
Than lose for life all self-dependence ;
And be for life a wife forsaker,
Yet still, at a woman’s will, a quaker!
Again, is it necessary for me to read the works of a celebrated
authoress on free love ? Further, am I to put myself into the temptation
| of reading the life of Anne Lee, and, in consequence, of leaving my wife
! and family ? Am I to seek agapemones because there are, Mr. Hepworth
| Dixon has told us, remarkably charming women there ? Am I to bo
j led away by the life and writings of a lady of the last century, mentioned
i in The Spiritualist some time back, whose name I forget, who had pre¬
pared her layette, after a supposed immaculate conception, but which
never came to anything after all. Or by those of Marguerite Alacoque,
of the bleeding heart, concerning whom one could not have wondered
at anything that might have taken place ? Or, indeed, finally, am I
bound to have read Eliphas Levi or the “ Count de Gabalis; ” or even
j concerning the Rosicrucians of the middle ages ? Mr. Massey says
that I have evidently not read a line of their writings, or I should have
heard about the elementaries, though not always in a well defined sense.
Well, that is only what we have been used to hitherto. But Mr.
Massey is a little mistaken : I have read about the Rosicrucians with
interest, but not lately; and had forgotten about the elementaries, or I
should have not made the mistake of saying they had not been heard of
in Europe. So, also, have I read, in former days, something of Eliphas
Levi’s writings; indeed, I possess his Clef des Grands Mysteres.
though I have not read his Dogme et Itituel de la Haute Magie; but I
confess that, with all his learning, he is not much to my taste ; it may be
he is too learned for me. So much the worse for me, Mr. Massey may
say. Well, so be it. Eliphas Levi was a nom de plume, he was the
Abbe Constant, I believe, and died in 1876. Sckutatob.
M.A. (Cantab.)
MATEBIAXISATIONS.
Sib,—According to the following newspaper cutting, which is from
our Manchester Guardian, 28th Feb., under its London Correspondent,
our Research Committee say, “ That paid and professional mediums
are condemned as useless, dec., &c.” I hope they never said it or
printed it
The British National Association of Spiritualists have appointed a Research
Committee, whose recommendations will practically put an end to Spiritualism
as a “ system of revelation.” Paid and professional mediums are condemned
as useless or worse to the cause ; and if the interests of Spiritualism are to
be advanced at all, they must be replaced by “ trustworthy manipulations ”
in family groups or private circles, where every member is acquainted with
every other.
Your statements about flexible features are not satisfactory; on the
11th January, your report of Miss Cook’s seance was, that the
“ columnar form, averaging about 18 inches in diameter, had no out¬
line of a human figure. No features were visible, and with this class of
manifestations, through different sensitives, with the medium in full
view, and off his or her own premises, I have never yet seen living
flexible features in the form, although I have dimly seen faces and
beards”—of course, meaning masks.
My letter to you on March 1st was not inserted in full. It said
this : “ Now, at Miss Cook’s seance you were at, and described in your
newspaper, could it be inanimate when the form in white at your
invitation went to the Venetian blind and gave you (though it was
covered) more light-—and the medium close to you in the conscious
state ? ” My whole letter went to prove flexibility of form and
feature both with Miss Cook and Mr. Eglinton’s forms, and not
always at their own homes, but occasionally at Mr. Rondi’s studio,
under my own careful inspection; for I care little what others say,
unless I prove it for myself, on this subject.
Again. Why omit from my letter the following: “Now, in the
face of all this evidence, I trust you will believe Dr. N., the Rev. Mr.
Colley, Sig. Rondi, and myself., all eyewitnesses, and don’t go yourself
into a seance (like Professor Tyndall) with a mind in a state of sus¬
picious confusion on that point of non-flexibility of features, otherwise
you or others may get a hard knock by a mischievous spirit, which is
often done to those persisting in one groove of thought.”
You know, Mr. Editor, it is very difficult for me to write at all; and
I see no fun in my writing and wasting power if it don’t suit you to
put all in, for you can reply always to anything out of order.
Chas. Blackburn.
Parkfield, Didsbmy, near Manchester.
[In his previous communication Mr. Blackburn founded his remarks upon
one of our expressions in a private letter, and upon a portion of a sentence
quoted we know not whence, so we asked him to quote some paragraph of ours
actually printed, and to send in his criticisms upon it for publication this
week, which he has done. Our statement of fact, as published last week, is
that we have seen plenty of flexible features in genuine materialised spirit
forms, but never any which were unlike the medium in the lines of the eyes
and nose. If a youthful medium anywhere can off his own premises present
the materialised living, wrinkled face of an old man, in a good light, in tho
presence of responsible witnesses, we shall be glad to give any amount of
time and care to the observation of the phenomenon.—Ed.]
Sir,—Having read in the last Spiritualist that “Several correspond¬
ents who have not read our articles with care, write that we assert that
materialised spirit forms have no flexible features ; but this has never
been asserted in these pages,” and being one of the correspondents who
has read the articles with care and also written letters on the subject,
I hope I may be permitted to quote a few lines from The Spiritualist of
December 28th : “ In the presence of Miss Cook, in Signor Rondi’s
studio, a form appears while the medium is in full view ; but it does
March 8, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
119
not present living flexible features.” And the very same words have
been written in the columns of The Spiritualist afterwards. The week |
before last the very same form in my studio ate a piece of cake and |
drank wine ; first alone, close by me, and afterwards calling the medium |
out of the cabinet, both standing close together, the spirit form of j
Lillie Gordon took a piece of cake, divided it, gave a piece to the
medium, and both ate it while I was standing by them. I asked j
the spirit, “ Where will the cake and wine go ? ” Lillie said, “When I |
leave, everything will be absorbed in the atmosphere.” After this, they
walked together across the room to the window, and there the form
sank and rose again several times, with the face uncovered, and much
better developed than on previous occasions.
Last Friday, in the presence of two well-known gentlemen from j
Manchester, both medium and spirit walked from the folding-doors to |
the window. A good light came through the Venetian blinds. We j
all saw the spirit form moving near the medium, speaking to her, em- ]
bracing and kissing her. Lillie answered some questions put by the
two gentlemen in a very clear voice. I then asked of the spirit form
if she could vanish in our presence. Lillie answered that she could.
Soon afterwards, when wishing us all “ Good night,” she sank to the
floor and vanished. We at once went close to the medium, but nothing j
could be seen. This, I think, ought to constitute flexibility of spirit !
form materialising through Miss Cook.
The writer also says, “We are searching now, and have searched for j
years, for a ‘ recognisable ’ living spirit face,” &c. We have many cases j
on record of people who have recognised spirit faces of relatives and
friends. The writer suggests that a “ medium—say a boy—shall give a j
seance off his own premises in the presence of educated critical wit- j
nesses, and produce a living head of an old man—for instance, that of !
the late Duke of Wellington—in a strong light, so that every wrinkle
of the duke’s face can be seen by everybody present as he talks.” i
Permit me to suggest a girl instead of a boy, as, generally speaking,
boys are very mischievous, and, according to the idea of some new j
theorists, the spirit of the boy may be transformed into an old man; i
but not so, I think, with the spirit of a girl. Now, suppose that the
noble duke’s face should appear in a circle, would the writer and the
persons composing the circle be able to ascertain that the old face is
really the face of the noble warrior ? In my estimation I do not think
that this would be a proof of spirit identity. But we are now pro¬
gressing so very fast in form materialising through various mediums,
in every country, that I am full of confidence that the writer will
probably soon be gratified in his desire of witnessing a recognisable
spirit face. E. Bondi.
Montague-place, London, March 6th.
THE INSPIRATION OP ANCIENT PROPHETS.
Sir,—Dr. Wyld, in an article in The Spiritualist of January 25th,,
says:—“No Hebrew prophet was ever controlled by any departed
spirit, and no Evangelist ever spoke but as from his own God-
enlightened spirit.”
In a liberal spirit of honest inquiry, and not of captiousness, I
would like to ask Dr. Wyld’s authority for making this statement.
Bible statements seem to me to teach differently. In the 1st Chapter
of Revelations, God gives Jesus a revelation, which Jesus sends an angel
to show to John. Who was this angel ? In the nineteenth Chapter, at
the tenth verse, of the same book, the angel says to John, “I am thy
fellow-servant, and of thy brethren the prophets.” This statement
seems to justify the conclusion that the angel was a “ departed spirit.”
If he did not control John (John was in the spirit), he dictated to John
what to write, which comes to pretty much the same thing as control¬
ling him. The writer of Chronicles II. evidently believed in spirit
control; see Chapter xviii. of that book.
It is not stated that the control was that of a departed spirit; but
control by a departed spirit is as much in harmony with the dignity
of man and the moral government of God as the control just referred
to, and I am of the opinion most people would say more so. I have read
Dr. Wyld’s articles with pleasure and profit, but cannot, without some
proof, accept his statement that no Hebrew prophet, or no Evangelist,
was ever controlled by a departed spirit.
Let me say, in conclusion, that I hope big hearts and clear heads
will be brought to bear upon the large field of inquiry embraced by
the subject of Spiritualism, and that all littleness and narrowness will
be always absent from the inquiry. After reading the articles in your
journal carefully and impartially, I still hold to the opinion that the
spirits of the departed take a very active and extensive part in what
is called the spiritual movement. I think I have proof that—
The belovbd, the true-hearted,
Come to visit us once more.
While I rest in the haven of this knowledge, I can look with much
pleasure on the efforts of the brave crew of gifted men who push their
boat from the shore out into the deep waters of speculation and
inquirv, and I think that every Spiritualist should wish them, “ God
speed,’’ when they depart, and give them a hearty welcome when they
return with such interesting and instructive specimens of their labours
as have been on view in The Spiritualist for some time past.
Item.—Dr. Wyld quotes Lev. xix. 31; see also Exod. xx. 18, which
says, “ Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live”’ Are both these passages
binding on the people of to-day ?. Thos. McKinney.
London-road, Peterborough.
COMMUNICATIONS THROUGH WRITING MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—The following communication, as harmonising religion and
science, may interest some of your readers. ■ All I can say is, it came
in the usual quaint caligraphy that has now been familiar to me for
nearly eight years. I give it quantum valeat:—
“ Many spirits have mission to communicate to the people of God;
many are known, by the indiscretion of their communications, to be
foolish and undeveloped spirits; much curious information is given, but
he that trusteth it shall surely be tried by disappointment, and he who
trusteth in form manifestations shall soon discover himself to be
mystified ; for it is not the Father’s will to replace the witchcraft of the
ancient nations, but to show how science and religion may be reconciled,
and so prove the purity of real Spiritualism. Ask.”
Q. “ Who are meant by the people of God to whom thou sayest that
many people have missions, and how is it that foolish and undeveloped
spirits are sent?”
A. “ Many confound God and the Father, but they are distinct. God
is the originator of all the world, that is the universe ; for just as a tree
grows and throws out its branches to all parts of the compass, so does
God throw himself out to the utmost limits of space. He will never
change or modify His action, He is inexorable, His other name is Law ;
‘all mankind, therefore, are his people, and must attain, sooner or later,
perfection. Now the Father is one of the first of the human race that
attained a very high development: it was written in the ancient sacred
books of the Hebrews that man should be made in the image of God,
that man should develop to full perfection. Ask.”
Q. “ Is this a specimen of the curious spirit information which, if a
man trusteth, he shall surely be deceived?”
A. “ No, my child ; no such information is meant; when man needs
knowledge to rise to the Father, it is truly given ; now a new revela¬
tion is at hand; the overthrow of belief in external revelation, the
inculcation of the supremacy of reason and conscience. ”
Louisa Lowe.
64, Berners-street, London, W., March 4th, 1878.
WILL-POWER.
Sir,—In your last week’s issue, your correspondent, Mr. Theodore
Ellis, makes two mis-statements in connection with my name, which I
hope you will allow me to correct.
He says :—In your impression of the 15th February Miss Kisling-
bury expresses her conviction that certain phenomena were produced
by her will power.
I have read through the only article written by me in that number
of your journal, and I do not find that I have expressed any “ con¬
viction,” nor asserted, nor even suggested, that I ever produced any¬
thing by my “ will power.”
The only passage on which I can suppose that Mr. Ellis founds his
statement, reads as followsThe members of the Theosophical
Society discovered, by experiment, that the power of the human will
was capable^ of cultivation to an unlimited extent, and that it was
possible to perform by its means many things hitherto supposed attri¬
butable to departed spirits alone. They did not say that the spirits of
departed human beings did not perform them, but that they did not
necessarily perform them.”
I can find no other passage which could in any degree justify Mr.
Ellis’s unqualified statements that certain assertions were made by
me, and I hope I have sufficiently shown that such assertions
are not contained in the only passage which might be supposed to
contain them. For further proof, I refer your readers to the paper
itself. E. Kislingburt.
TEST SEANCES.
Sir,—In The Spiritualist of the 22nd inst. a letter is signed “ Ernest
Whatley,’’ relating to “ Test seances.” I cannot refrain from stating
that at a seance with Mr. Eglinton at 38, Great Russell-street, I had
every opportunity afforded me of testing the medium, so much so that
I went into the cabinet to see him properly secured, being requested to
do so by “ Joey.” Having satisfied myself of the same, I was about to
leave the cabinet, when, to my surprise, I felt rather a sharp pull at the
leg of my trousers, which could not have been done by Mr. Eglinton, he
being in the one positive position, to which I can justly testify.
A hand appeared several times to my satisfaction, and which I had
much pleasure in touching.
Our worthy friend will, doubtless, be pleased to recollect the words of
Sir Humphry Davy, “ One good experiment is of more value than the
ingenuity of a brain like Newton’s. Facts are more useful when they
contradict than when they support received theories.”
Mr. Eglinton seeks not for fame, not for gain, but for the truth of
Spiritualism. Geo. E. Harrisson.
Turnham Green, Feb. 25, 1878.
THE BIRTH OF MONTEZUMA.
Sir,—In very ancient days the sons of God, we are told, visited the
daughters of men, and a man could hardly be a hero unless he were a
demi-God. It is also alleged of perhaps all the great civilisers and
saviours of men, in the old world, that they were born of pure virgins,
and we were reminded by Mr. O’Sullivan, in his valuable article of
Feb. 22nd, in your journal, that this was the case with Chrisna,
Buddha, Confucius, and Zoroaster. But, perhaps, the most extra¬
ordinary coincidence of all is that the same is alleged of Montezuma, the
Civiliser of the Aztecs, in America, who taught them to build cities
which indeed they did throughout an area from the city of Mexico to
San Francisco,. Montezuma also taught them to worship the one
Great Spirit, symbolised by fire, which was never allowed to be extin¬
guished in their temples. In his Case there could have been no prestgie
of precedent to make it incumbent to prove that his conception was
exceptional. Dr. Bell, in his Foot Tracks in North America, thus de¬
scribes the legend of the birth of Montezuma: “ Long ago a woman of
exquisite beauty ruled over these valleys. Many suitors came from far
to woo her, and brought presents innumerable of corn, skins, and
120
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 8, 1878.
cattle. Her virtue and determination to remain unmarried continued alike I
unshaken; and her store of worldly possessions so greatly increased, j
that when drought and desolation came upon her land, she fed her people j
out of her great abundance, and did not miss it, there was so much left. |
One night, as she lay asleep, her garment was blown from off her i
breast, and a dewdrop from the Great Spirit fell upon her bosom, I
entered her blood, and caused her to conceive. In time she bore j
a son, who was none other than Montezuma.” One of Montezuma’s j
great precepts, like that of other great teachers, was, “ Desire to live at i
peace with all men,” The Spaniards, who persecuted the Aztecs, had j
also heard of the same doctrine. Scrutator. 1
FAC-SIMILE SIGNATURES THROUGH WRITING MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—About six years ago, through the mediumship of Mrs. Wood-
forde, I made the (spirit) acquaintance of Charles Dickens, who has
since been one of my guides. Last fall I was in Cornwall for change of
air, and from various causes fell into considerable mental depression.
This had lasted for several days when a letter reached me enclosing this
message, with Dickens’s well-known signature :—“ I am often with you,
friend Snow. Look up ; look up.—Charles Dickens.”
The medium in this case was a young lady in her teens, not of a
devotional turn of mind, distant more than two hundred miles, and who
had heard nothing of my mental state at the time.
Through the same medium the following message was also passed, j
from Robert Burns, another of my guides—“ Be strong in thy faith.”
Again, through this medium I received a longer communication of a j
more private nature from an intelligence professing to be a sister who j
died about thirty years ago in the prime of life. Every vestige of her !
former signature, in letters, &c., had disappeared, and it was only after j
a long-continued inquiry that at last a book was discovered with her j
name in full in her own handwriting, paled with time but quite legible. |
This the medium had never seen. On comparing the two, one was
found a complete facsimile of the other.
I think the evidence is here sufficiently strong to convince any unpre- j
judiced mind that at least my sister and Charles Dickens have lost S
neither their “ trinity ” nor identity. At a time when the Theosophists |
are raising such clouds of dust and darkening the spiritual atmosphere j
such instances may be useful—not to veteran Spiritualists, but to in-
quirers; and if those possessing similar experiences would overcome a j
natural and excusable reluctance, and lay some of their experiences !
before the world, much good would certainly result.
I might add the testimony of independent clairvoyants to the i
frequent presence of the “ identities” above mentioned, and of many j
others, Albt. Snow. J
18, Atlingworth-street, Marine-parade, Brighton,
March 2nd, 1878.
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
BT EMILY KISLINGBURY.
Some months having elapsed since the last notice in these
pages of foreign journals devoted to Spiritualism, there are
many changes to record in regard to this department. The
leading journals still retain their influential position, but j
new ones have sprung up, which bid fair to take an honour¬
able place in spiritual periodical literature.
In America, which needs but brief mention (being scarcely
a foreign country, and notably as regards its language), the
Spiritual Magazine, which was issued monthly, with some
omissions, since the year 1873 at Memphis, Tennessee, has
disappeared as a separate publication, and its editor, Dr.
Watson, is now represented in the Voice of Truth, a new
weekly journal, published in the same city. Its proprietors
and chief editors are two ladies, Mrs. Mary Shindler and
Mrs. Annie Hawks.
Another journal, the Monthly Offering, of Springfield,
Missouri, which has been started rather recently, is also very
ably edited by a lady, Mrs. Nellie Pease Fox.
In France the Revue Spirite still continues its monthly
appearance under the management of M. Joly, assisted by
its former editor, M. Leymarie. The January number opens
with a retrospect of the literature of Spiritualism during
1877, and informs us of at least thirty works in connection
with the subject which have been published, principally in
France, Belgium, and Italy. Among these are the follow- |
ing journals:—Le Galileen at Ostende, and Le Chercheur j
at Li6ge. In consequence of the death of Dr. Dupuis, the j
founder of the Galilben, and a most active worker in the j
cause in Belgium, a fusion of these two little journals has j
taken place, under the title of the Revue Beige du Spin- j
time.
The AcadSmie Pneumatologique of Florence has published j;
a volume of transactions, containing reports of discussion j1
meetings convened by the Baron Guittera da Bozzi. The j!
Revue speaks also of a new journal founded at Guadalajara, ! j
Mexico, entitled La Discusion, and of a society at Santiago, 11
I Chili, which issues a monthly review. La Revelacion and
I La Constancia are also new publications, dating from Buenos
j Ayres.
II Turning to the articles in the Revue during the last three
I months, in addition to those treating of abstract subjects,
| such as Matter and Spirit, by M. Rossi de Giustiniani, and
j some meditations given through writing mediumship, a
I larger number than usual are devoted to the recording of
| physical phenomena. M. Godin, who was a member of the
N National Assembly from 1871 to 1875, gives an account of
> i seven pages in length of his experiences with Dr. Slade in
! I Brussels. Colonel Devoluet, of Paris, continues his monthly
[I, narratives, now amounting to nine in number, of manifes-
[I tations occurring through the mediumship of a girl named
!| Amelie. The seances have been always confined to the
! I family circle of Colonel Devoluet, and a gradual development
j of the medium’s powers has taken place, from raps and the
| transport of objects, especially flowers, through closed doors,
| to a highly-developed clairvoyant vision, by means of which
many tests of identity, considered perfectly satisfactory by
| the sitters, have been given. The most remarkable pheno-
i menon of a physical nature is that related by M. Greslez, of
Setif, Algiers. This gentleman, having felt for some time
| the disadvantage of pursuing Spiritualism solely by means of
| writing mediumship, suggested to his spirit-friends to
| attempt a musical manifestation. He was directed to find
| two physical mediums, and to place one before the keyboard
| of the organ and the other at the bellows. The medium’s
j hands were to be over the keys, although she did not know
i how to use them. There first came a rolling sound from
I within the organ, then notes were struck, often quite distant
I from the hands of the medium, who was so overcome at the
| event that she began weeping, believing herself bewitched,
i In course of time, it appeared as if various musical spirits
| were operating, and when these retired quite inferior com¬
positions were sometimes played. The seances took place by
daylight, and strangers were occasionally invited to attend,
j with various results. On one occasion the organ-blowing
! medium fell asleep ; there was no movement of the bellows,
i and yet the music proceeded, although no sound could be
i produced when contact with the keys was tried by persons
in the circle. The Revue Spirite also gives some space to
the question with which we have been occupied in England,
that of Theosophy. It apologises to Colonel Olcott for its
[ j former cavalier treatment of elementals and elementaries,
I and proceeds to give its best attention to these important
[ i beings. A paper by Mr. Christian Reimers, on his experi-
II ments with paraffin moulds, adds another chapter to the
! accounts of physical phenomena, which form a new and
I important feature in the French view of Spiritualism.
The Messager de Liege and the Moniteur de la Federation
Beige continue to appear fortnightly. They contain princi¬
pally n,ews of Dr. Slade’s sojournings in the German capitals,
j and a due amount of communications d'outre tombe, with
dissertations on God and Creation from the pen of M.
Tournier.
An important announcement comes from Mr. Z. J. Pi^rart
who edited the Revue Spiritualiste from the year 1858 to the
year 1869, the work of which he virtually continued in the
Concile de la Libre Pensee. Three years ago this was
j suppressed by the French Government; and the first proofs
of another work by Pierart were seized while passing through
the post. All attempts to gain an explanation or to obtain
j redress were useless. M. Pierart then sent an account of
these arbitrary proceedings on the part of the Government
to the principal Republican journals. Not one inserted it.
He has now resolved to bring out his journal under a new
name, not calculated to excite suspicion. It is to be called
pe Benedictin de SainUMaur, and will be in the same form
as the Revue Spiritualiste.
j —= ■ -- ==  ■■■■-  — 
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J, 0.—Please condense your remarks to a brief reply to the points at issue.
S. Q.—Such vague general statements are not of interest to readers.
! P.—It is not ■within the province of this journal to question the established
facts of astronomy.
!
Errata.—Page 99, column 1, paragraph 3 for “ditty” read “duty,” and
paragraph 4 read thus—“ I speak with reserve: but, having seen both, and
tried both, I am disposed ”
March 8, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing tlie English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6a
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2a
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.8. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton- 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 16s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be-
leving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and tho Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. Od.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals .were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gahi information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the m diumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'trumpery
character, hut these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
In this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. od.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WIIIOH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. Os.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. Gd.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Gd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiravn n-
ally through the mediumshln of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. Gd.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. Gd.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Gd.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. A.n American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Oonant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
B O OK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Gd.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett.
7s. Gd.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Gd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Gd.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." *. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . , . , IS 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . ..76
The Teacher. „ IL „ . ' . . .76
The Seer. „ III. „ . , . .76
The Reformer. - „ IV. ,, . . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . * . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . ■. .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . , . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . .’ .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events m the Life or a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence , . . . ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . , .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . . 7 G
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
TheTemple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds arid Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v, Theology. . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . ... .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s ai
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . 2i 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spikituaiist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14 0
History ot American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trim Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind ; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Ansesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 0
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation oi the United States of America
at Constantinople. , ’ . . . ..10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vois. . . . • . ... IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . 10 6
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authob and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientiflc man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the muoh vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison's opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion dow mon-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention ihan the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena be undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. Tha
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and ''hose so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of tho
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id, post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instruetions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
* 300 for Is., post free, or 500for Is, &d., post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says:—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of -printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro¬
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to “ drop about ’’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.”
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald, Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “HeavenOpened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Makch 8, 1878,
A
NEW ERA.
H
OW TO PREVENT DISEASE AND PRE
MATURE DEATH BY NATURAL MEANS.
LORD BEACONSEIELD justly stated the other
day that “ the health of the people is really the foundation
’upon which all their happiness and power as a State depend.”
For the most practical mode of preventing desease and premature
death se6 a large Illustrated Sheet given with each bottle of
EMO’S FRUIT SALT. The information is invaluable. As a
HEALTHlGIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and INVIGO¬
RATING BEVERAGE, or as a gentle laxative and tonic in the
various forms, of indigestion, use ENO’S FRUIT- SALT (prepared
from sound ripe fruit). It is the best preventive and cure for
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Fevers, Feverishness, Feverish
Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c., and to remove the
effects of errors of eating and drinking.
E
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ Amongst the many
and varied medicinal discoveries of the nineteenth century
none, perhaps, has advanced so rapidly into public notice
as END’S FRUIT SALT. Comparatively unknown
some year or so ago, this preparation, which is made
from ripe sound fruit, is now met with in every quarter
of the globe. The great merit which is claimed for it is
that it keeps t]ie blood pure and the system perfectly
clear, and thus takes away the groundwork offmala-
rious diseases so common to towns and districts which
are ill-drained. There is little doubt but that the .time
■will- eventually come when fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered as offences
against the well-being of communities at large; but we
will, in alF'probabiiity, be some while yet before it
shall have arrived at such a pitch of sanitary perfection.
Meanwhile, we cannot withhold a welcome to any
specific which may prove a means of preserving or restor¬
ing health. The simpler the better, so long only as it is
effectual. ENO’S FRUIT SALT has been found an
excellent corrective to the digestive organs, and in the
colonies, in India, ahd in South America, has a largely
increasing sale. It is better by far than' “nips,” and
amongst the Good Templars—a numerous community all
over me world—it is recognised not only as, a refreshing
but also as a stimulating drink.’’—European Mail, Nov. 1,
1877. •
E
E
WHAT EYERYBODY WANTS TO
KNOW.
NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A Gentleman writes :—
“Since I have used ENO’S FRUIT SALT night and
morning, my headaches, &c., have left me, and this after
suffering for above twenty years. You should make this
fact well known.”
NO’S FRUIT SALT.— A Lady writes: —
“Everything, medicine or food, ceased to act properly for
at least three months before I commenced taking it; the
little food I could take generally punished me or returned.
My life was one of great suffering, so that I must have
succumbed before long.”
WHAT EVERY TRAVELLING TRUNK AND HOUSEHOLD
IN THE WORLD OUGHT TO CONTAIN—A BOTTLE OF
JjVNO’S FRUIT SALT,
GENERAL LAXATIVE AND TONIC
IN THE VARIOUS FORMS OF INDIGESTION.
GUARANTEED TO BE PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE
FRUIT.
The Fruit Salt Is one of Nature’s own products. It contains all
the valuable saline constituents , of Ripe Fruit in a portable,
agreeable, and simple form, and is in every respect as harmless
as the juices of finite from which it is obtained.
In Pimples and Blotches on the Face, Sallowness of the Skin,
and Depression of Spirits, it is most useful, for not the least of its
recommendations is its resemblance to fruit in the natural way
In which it relieves the system of effete or poisonous matter,
which, if retained, poisons the blood; and its advantages over
fruit is that it can be always at hand when required. Its
preparation has been truly styled one of the triumphs of modern
chemistry. In hot or foreign climates it is invalflable. It allays
nervous excitement, and restores the nervous system to its
proper condition (by natural means). In the Nursery it is beyond
praise. • " 
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
is particularly valuable. No traveller should leave home without
a supply, for by its use the most dangerous forms of Fevers,
Blood Poisons, &c., are Prevented and Cured. It is, in truth, a
Family Medicine Chest in the simplest yet most potent form.
Instead of being lowering to the system, this preparation is, in
the highest degree, invigorating. Its effect in relieving thirst,
giving tone to the system, and aiding digestion is most striking.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS,
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence .Chixton and the
Author.
'Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. Jhe -Castle.—6. The
Lay of the Fat Man..—6. The Poetyy ojf Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London .on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustaplia Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howlihg Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10., The Lay of. the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The
Song of the Mother in-Law."—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “ Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
• Part 2.—The Wdbblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—25, General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The -Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column Tong, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enj oy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been’published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“ISo one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow
Papers, “with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popularchronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
qre in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin University Magazine.
How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
j'NO’S FRUIT SALT (one of Nature’s own
L products) keeps the blood pure, and is thus ot itself one of
the most valuable means of keeping the blood free from
fevers and Wood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever
discovered. As a means of preserving and restoring
health, it is unequalled; and it is, moreover, a pleasant,
refreshing and Invigorating beverage. After a patient
and careful observation of its effects when used, I have
no hesitation in stating that if its great value in keeping
the body healthy were universally known, not a house¬
hold in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.—
J. C. Eno.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—“ I am very much pleased
with your FRUIT SALT. I have fully proved its great
efficacy by its having entirely cured me of indigestion.”—
T. Wood, Jun., Tudor-road, Canterbury.
WORTHY OF NOTICE.—PALPITATION OF
THE HEART, caused by Liver Derangement and Indiges¬
tion, frequently called (or mistaken for) Heart Disease :—
“On April 141 purchased a bottle of your FRUIT SALT,
not feeling very well at the time, and it had an effect that
I never anticipated when I boughtit. I had suffered more
®r less, since the year 1841, from palpitation of the heart,
but very badly during the last few years. The least thing
would produce it during the day, and at night my sleep
was very much disturbed. Strange to say, after the first
dose of FRUIT SALT, the dangerous, annoying, and
truly disagreeable symptoms of palpitation suddenly
ceased, and have not since returned. Out of gratitude for
the benefit which I have received, I have recommended it
to all myjfriends, both in London and Yarmouth. At the
same time, I feel it a duty to state the above facte, of
which you can make whatever use you please I am,
dear sir, yours respectfully, “W. B. Beckett,”
Aug. 30,1877.—10, York-square, Commercial-road, London, E.
/CAUTION. — Examine each Bottle and see the
AJ Capsule is marked “ ENO’S FRUIT SALT.” Without it
you have been imposed on by a worthless imitation. TRADE
MARK—Eno’s Fruit Salt, Fruit Saline, or Fruit Powder.
Sold by all Chemists. Price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Hotm—PH ARMACIE DE BERAL. 1 RUE DE
LA PAIX,.
“ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and pther scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...'How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar Idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself... . The
poems are all characterised by smoothness amkrhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If our readers wish to .en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”'
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known Contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous,.,.
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature,- will find what they want in The Lazy Lays."
From The Bristol Daily Post.
“ A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit.... The serious and sentimental verses*belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans's or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry souls who do quite as much good in their day and
generation as the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
‘are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.” - •
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
•lively imaginings and . bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over.. .The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wdbblejaw Ballads, which
appejred in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
an! f/hich created such a furore at the time.” [N.B. An
ircjt member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques m the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,” but. the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, ishound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original
design of no. ordinary merit on the cover.” .
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Publishing Office, of
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late 'Wu. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor qf
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s.. Copies may also be had hound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price Ss. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism— Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER II;—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub
ject in YariousWays—Striking Expression of Feelmgsin the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Tmtnfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at.a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Objects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Jntrovision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer-
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State-
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental: Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Ool. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S >i ritual
World.
CHAPTER VHI: Phreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of i’nrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of
Mesmerism—Phsysiological, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan¬
ity, Magic, Divination, Witehcratf, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
WakingClairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subiect—Effects of Odyle—Somnam
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII;—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Oases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley's Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII :—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
info Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—^Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes
meric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Remarks, and Summary.
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhom Printing Works, Fullwood's Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George’
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
