Registered as a Newspaper.
No. 410.-—(Vol. XVI.—No. 27.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JULY 2, 1880. Published Weekly: Price Twopence.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR & ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces,
Everything of the best Quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be given. Five per cent, for cash.
8, EAFTOYEK PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N/W.
Jttst Published.
In One Volume, a Series of Five Stories, Entitled
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
By LISETTE EARLE.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
May be obtained of Messrs. Remington and Co., Arundel-street, Strand, London, and of all Booksellers.
An interesting Booh to Spiritualists.
Demy 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges. Price 12s. 6d. Post Free. Will be ready in a few days. Illustrated by various full page and double page
Engravings.
TRANSCENDENTAL PHYSICS.
AN ACCOUNT OF EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS FROM THE SCIENTIFIC TREATISES OF
JOHANN CARL FRIEDRICH ZOLLNER,
Professor of Physical Astronomy at the University of Leipsic ; Member of the Royal Saxon Society of Sciences ; Foreign Member of the
Royal Astronomical Society of London; of the Imperial Academy of Natural Philosophers at Moscow; Honorary Member of the Physical
Association at Frankfort-on-the-Main; of the “ Scientific Society of Psychological Studies,” at Paris; and of the “ British National
Association of Spiritualists,” at London.
TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN, WITH A PREFACE AND APPENDICES, BY
CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY, (of Lincoln’s inn, Barrister-at-Law.)
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33. Museum Street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red edges.
A NEW BOOK IN CONNECTION WITH SPIRITUALISM,
PSYCHIC FACTS,
Will be Published in a few days, containing striking selections from the writings of Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Mr. C. F.
Varley, F.R.S., Mr. A; R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., The Committee of the Dialectical Society, Professor Hare, of Philadelphia,
Professor Z6llner, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Captain R. F. Burton, and others, demonstrating the reality of the phenomena of Spiritualism.
The work will also contain some useful information for inquirers.
The Spiritualist Branch Office, 33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Just Published. Price 2s. 6d. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges.
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS.
By CAPTAIN JOHN JAMES
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an Author who has had thirty years' experience in Mesmerism.
“ Captain James is, it is needless to say, a very firm believer
in the reality and uses of the mesmeric sleep, and he has here
thrown together the results of his own experiences, at the request
of his publisher. We agree with Mr. Harrison that the author
has treated the subject exactly in the way in which it is desirable
that matters on which the public require information should be
treated; and he tells concisely, and yet fully, many of the
secrets of what is still regarded in many quarters as a somewhat
dark art. Want of faith is, he argues, the great bar to the pro¬
gress of what he terms ‘ a just appreciation of the powers and
the blessings to be derived from a proper use of mesmerism,’ and
he holds that one of the chief causes of the failure of mesmerists
is, that they give up the trail too quickly, and that they also
mesmerise far too many persons. As to the beneficial results of
mesmerism, our author has no doubts whatever, whether as a
cure for epilepsy, headache, toothache, or other ailment; and his
final advice to the practitioner is, ‘ Call it what you like, but per¬
sistently employ it for the berefit of the sick and suffering.’
Even if Captain James fails to make converts by his little volume,
he may at any rate be credited with naving written an interesting
work in a thoroughly pleasant way.”—The Publisher's Circular,
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 2, 1880.
ALLAN KAKDEC’S WOKKS.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the Hundred and Twentieth Thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the Eighty-fifth Thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the Sixtieth Thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Tbubneb and Co., London.
Just Published.
SPIRIT-IDENTITY.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of
friends.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER,
22, GORDON ST., GORDON SQUARE,
LONDON.
(At Home every day except Sunday),
"Will Lecture at Stemway Hall, Lower Seymour
street, every Sunday night at 7 o’clock.
By M.A. (Oxon).”
Cloth 8vo. Red Edges. Price Five Shillings, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London W.C.
A New Invention.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of
Gout, Rheumatism, and other painful maladies is pre¬
pared to visit patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND,
LONDON.
THE UNITED SUIT.
Gentlemen’s complete Attire in One Garment for Instantaneous Dressing. Very Stylish in
Appearance.
INVERTED AND MADE SOLELY BY
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR,
8, HANOVER PLACE, CLARENCE GATE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W-
Just Published. Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red Edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spiritualism, and
setting forth his experience. With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
By LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
.THE TH EOSOPH1ST,
A MONTHLY JOURNAL DEVOTED TO SCIENCE, ORIENTAL
PHILOSOPHY, HISTORY, PSYCHOLOGY, LITERATURE AND ART.
Conducted by H. P. BLAVATSfCY.
PUBLISHED AT 108, GIRGAUM BACK ROAD, BOMBAY.
Subscription, £1 Per Annum, Post Free.
Post Office Orders to u The Proprietors of ( The Theosophistf ”
at the above address.
HEALING BY LAYING ON OF HANDS
DR. JAMES MACK,
37, UPPER BAKER STREET, REGENT’S
PARK. At Home from 10 till 5.
D. YOUNGER,
Mesmerist, Mesmeric Healer, Medical Rubber,
gives private instructions. Mesmeric Seances and
Electro-biological Entertainments at Home or by
appointment. Can also supply Mesmeric Sensitives
for Private Experiments, At Home daily from 2 till 10.
Moscow House, 45, Moscow-road, Bayswater, W.
ARYLEBONE PROGRESSIVE
INSTITUTE AND SPIRITUAL EVIDENCE
SOCIETY, Quebec Hall, 25, Great Quebec Street,
Marylebone Road, London, near Baker Street Station.
The Society will celebrate its first New Year of
freedom from debt on Thursday and Friday, July 1st,
and 2nd.
On July 1st, 1879, by the kind aid of several ladies
it cleared off all material responsibilities, and by
economy still remains in that position. The cele¬
bration will comprise the display of baskets of flowers,
with some curiosities, which will be for sale at very
moderate prices.
Mr. J. M. Dale desires respectfully to state that the
articles were unsold last year and are his own property,
and that the sale of them is the only remuneration he
has or will accept for his labours in the cause or for
the above Society.
Doors open at 2 p.m. on Thursday and 3 p. m. on
Friday. Admission Free. Light refreshments at
moderate charges.
TVJTDLLE. HUET, good Medium for
JjJ. Raps. At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173,
Rue St. Honord, Paris.
AARS. WOODFORDE Any form
Ij 1 Of Mediumship developed. Mesmeric Healing
at home daily (except Tuesdays and Fridays) from 1
to 5 p.m., 4, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.C.
Price 5s. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth. Red edges. The new Book by
“M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYCHOGRAPHY; OR DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING
Illustrated with diagrams.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
Just Published.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
/CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY
DELINEATED from Handwriting, Photos, or
blank paper Mesmerised by the Breath. Fee 2s. 6d.
Address, Miss Ross, care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fop-
stone road, Earls-court, S.W.
Hell opened to Chris¬
tians.—This Is one of the most objectionable
orthodox books ever published, and contains pictures
of the infernal regions calculated to strike terror into
the hearts of children and people with weak nerves.
Cloth, eight illustrations. Post free sevenpence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch office, 33, Museum
Street, London, W.C.
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This book shows that one section at least of the phenomena of Spiritualism is produced
by the spirits of departed human beings, who have passed over the river of Death. It
contains a great number of well-attested facts, proving that the said spirits are the persons
they say they are. The work, from beginning to end, is full of evidence’ of Spirit Identity
The Author attempts to prove the Immortality of Man by strictly scientific methods,
giving well-proved facts first, and conclusions which naturally flow from them afterwards.
Price of the Library Edition, on superior paper and handsomely bound in half-calf 8s. 6d.
post free. Cloth edition 5s. 6d., post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
ALLEGORICAL SKETCHES,
XX FOUNDED ON SPIRITUAL TRUTHS.
1. The Inward Light. 2. A Lost Love Found. 8. The
Two Voices. 4. The Invisible Teacher. Price Is. 6d,
Victoria Steam Press, 117, Praed Street, London, W.
riHINA, GLASS AND EARTHEN-
\J WARE. Co-operative Stores and all other
Stores fully equalled if not superseded for China,
Glass, and Earthenware. Quality and quantity un¬
rivalled for the smallest margin of profit on the pre¬
payment system
J. M. DALE,
50, Crawford-street, Brj’anstoii-square, London.
No. 410.—VOLUME SEYENTEEN; NUMB EE ONE.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
“THE SPIRITUALIST” Newspaper.
Established in 1869.
Published Weekly. Peice Twopence.
10s. lOd. per annum Post Free within the limits of the United
Kingdom, and within the English and Foreign Postal Union.
PDIT^U 3Y WILLIAM H. HARRISON,
Museum-street, London.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen have published their names
in connection with their Literary Contributions to
The Spiritualist :—
His Impeeial Highness Ni-i
cholas of Russia, Duke of
Leuchtenberg
The Loed Lindsay
The Right Hon. the Countess
of Caithness
The Baeoness Von Vay, Coun¬
tess Wurmbrand (Austria)
The Hon. Robeet Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at
the Court of Naples
The Hon. Alekandbe Aksakof,
St. Petersburg
Sib Chasles Isham, Bart.
Capt. R. F. Bueton, F.R.G.S.
Alfbed Russel Wallace, Esq.,
F.R.G.S.,
C. C. Massey, Esq.
Mr. Seejeant Cox, President of
the Psychological Society of
Great Britain
Alkxandeb Caldeb, Esq., Pres¬
ident of the British National
Association of Spiritualists
Colonel H. S. Oloott, President
of the Theosophical Society of
New York
Mrs. Makdougall Geegoey
Gebald Massey, Esq.
Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treheme)
Captain John James
5. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
F. Podmoee, Esq., B.A. (Oxon).
Mrs. S. C. Hall
Eugene Ceowell, Esq., M.D.,
New York
Stanhope T. Speee, Esq., M.D.,
Edinburgh
Robeet S. Wyld, Esq., LL.D.
The Rev. C. Maubicb Davies,
DJ>.
H. D. Jenoken, Esq., M.R.I.
C Blaokbuen, Esq., Parkfield,
Didsbury, near Manchester
Mrs. Louisa Lowe
J. T. Maekley, Esq.
Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden)
Baeon Yon Dieckinck-Holm-
feld (Holstein)
J. W. Edmonds, Esq., Judge of
the Supreme Court, New York.
The Count de Bullet
The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
M.Adelbebthde Bouebon,First
Lieut, of the Dutch Guard to
the King of the Netherlands
M. L. F. Olavaiboz (Leon
Favre)
William Ceookes, Esq., F.R.S.
C. F. Yabley, Esq.,C.E., F.R.S.
St. Geoege W. Stock, Esq.,
M.A., (Oxon)
R. Fbiese, Esq., Ph.D., Breslau
J. M- Gully, Esq., M.D.
Epes Saegent, Esq.
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.,
J.P.
Dr. Geobge Wyld
W. Lindesay Richaedson, Esq.
M.D., Melbourne
J. C. Luxmoobe, Esq., J.P.
C. Caetee Blake, Esq. Doc. Sci.
H. M. Dunphy, Esq.
Algeenon Joy, Esq., M. Inst.
C.E.
Desmond FitzGerald, Esq.,
M.S. Tel. E.
J. A. Campbell, Esq.,
(Cantab)
D. H. Wilson, Esq., M.A., LL.
M (Cantab)
T. P. Baekas, Esq., F.G.S.
J. N. T. Maetheze, Esq.
Mrs. Showers
William Newton,Esq.,F.R.G.S.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S-
John E. Purdon, Esq., M.B.,
India
William White, Esq.
Miss Floeence Marryat
Madame Isabel de Steigeb
The Spiritualist has a steadily rising Circulation in all the
English-speaking Countries on the Globe. It is regularly
on sale at 8(1, Museum-street, London; 5, Rue Neuve
des Petits Champs,’ Palais Royal, Paris ; 2, Lindenstrasse,
Leipzig; Signor G. Parisi, Via Della Maltonia, Florence; Signor
Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso, Rome ; British Reading Rooms,
267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, Naples;
37, Rue FlorimORt, Liege ; Josefstaad, Erzherzog 23, Alex¬
ander Gasse, Buda-Pesth ; 84, Russell-street-Sjouth, Melbourne;
Messrs. Kelly and Co., Shanghai ; 61, East Twelfth-street, New
York ; Banner of Light Office, 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston,
U.S. ; Leligio-Philosophical journal Office, Chicago ; 319, Kear-
ney-street, San Francisco; 325, North Ninth-street, Philadelphia;
No. J.Q10, Seventh-street, Washington-
Advertising termff on1 application.
JULY 2 nd, 1880.
THE VISIONS OF MR. HOCKLEY’S
SENSITIVES.
Mr. F. Hockley, the author of an article
which will be found in another part of this
number of The Spiritualist, has made occult
subjects the study of a lifetime, and he pos¬
sesses perhaps the most valuable library of
books and manuscripts on Magic, to be found
in the world. His article upon another page
describes some fantastic visions in mirrors of
one of his seeresses, and as we have a difficult
body of readers to address, consisting partly of
persons versed in psychology and its facts, and
partly of new inquirers altogether uninformed
about both, it may be explained for the benefit
of the latter that the publication of Emma’s
visions does not necessarily imply that any
Spiritualist believes either in the existence of
spirits like enlarged blackbeetles who exhibit
human intellect, or in spirits with long and
shiny tails, however graceful and attractive
those appendages may be. The details are
given as actual psychological experiences re¬
corded in good faith, without any expression of
opinion on our part as to whether the visions
were purely subjective, or whether they
where impressed on the consciousness of the
medium by the thoughts and will-power of a
vividly imaginative spirit, or whether they
were symbolical dreams, or what their nature
may have been. The true philosophy of such
phenomena will no doubt be discovered in the
future. The visions of Mr. Hockley’s sensitive
with a mirror, strongly resemble those without
a mirror which were seen by a young member
of the Fairfax family in the old witchcraft
days, as set forth in a narrative drawn up by
Lord Houghton from family records, and
printed for private circulation.
Mrs. TappAif-Richmond, the American trance medium,
is in London, and a reception was given to her by her
friends last night
Mr. Ernest Wilding has written a song entitled
“ Love and Life,’' ydiich has been set to music by Mr.
J. F. Molloy, and published by Messrs. Chappell & Co.
The Home Secretary in reply to a petition for the
release of Mr. jEV .0. Matthews, forwarded from New¬
castle, doe$ not consider that there is sufficient ground
to justify him in advising Her Majesty to comply with
the prayer of the petition.
2 THE SPIEI
EVENINGS WITH THE IN-DWELLEES OF THE IS
WOELD OF SPIEITS. K
BY FREDERICK HOCKLEY. j)
David Paulus ab Indagine, a learned Hoi- |S
lander, personally acquainted with Sweden- Is
borg, says in a letter (March 5th, 1771), Is
“ Last Thursday I paid him a visit, and found x
him, as usual, writing. He told me ‘that he |;
had been in conversation that same morning, Is
for three hours, with the deceased King of K
Sweden. He had seen him already on the u
Wednesday; but, as he observed he was j>
deeply engaged in conversation with the K
Queen, who is still living, he would not dis- k
turb him.’ I allowed him to continue, but at j)
length asked him how it was possible for a I
person who is still in the land of the living, to |s
be met with in the world of spirits. He K
replied, ‘that it was not the Queen herself, j?
but her familiar spirit.’ I asked him what j<
that might be, for I had neither heard, nor |s
had I read anything about them. He then K
informed me, ‘ that every man has either his |>
good or bad spirit, who is not constantly with IS
him, but sometimes a little removed from him, K
and appears in the world of spirits. But of |<
this the man still living knows nothing ; the ]>
spirit however, knows everything. This |>
familiar spirit has everything in accordance K
with his companion upon earth: he has in the k
world of spirits, the same figure, the same I?
countenance, and the same tone of voice, and j)
wears also similar garments; in a word, this j<
familiar spirit of the Queen, says Swedenborg, I?
appeared exactly as he had so often seen the |>
Queen herself at Stockholm, and had heard her I)
speak.’ And he adds, 4 that Doctor Ernesti, j<
of Leipsic, had appeared to him in a similar I
manner in the world of spirits, and that he I
had held a long disputation with him. See IS
Wilkinson s Life of Swedenborg, p. 203,, and j<
Swedenborg’s Arc. Cel.> Yol. VIII. Hos. k
5848—66, also 5976—83, where the subject j>
is treated at length.”
AH ATMOSPHERIC' SPIRIT.
This spirit was not my good one but my |s
Doppel-ganger. 8th January, 1856. I invoked K
C. A. the spirit of the mirror.
The C. A. appeared, but indistinctly, the j>
veil appearing thick in front of the mirror, is
The answers to my questions appeared, and l<
also the book in the C. A.s’ hand, who kindly |<j
brought it up close to the front of the mirror; IS
but my seeress could not read any portion, js
I then mentioned that Emma had first received K
a great disappointment about a journey she |S
had anticipated, and was also suffering from \j
T U A L I S T. July 2, 1880
nervous faceache; I therefore requested the
0. A. to defer the vision of the book until the
following Tuesday, and requested as usual a
spiritual vision which would interest and in¬
struct us. Immediately a response came and
at the end of it a representation of my oval
mirror. The seeress could not read the
response, but upon opening the oval mirror
she said, 11 Here is yourself come in.” I
asked:—
. Q. Why have you come uncalled ? Are
you the interesting and instructive vision I
requested ?
B. I am obliged to take any opportunity of
appearing, and come when I can. You never
ask me. I cannot appear in the other mirror,
but when there is no vision I can tell you or
show you where you can see me.
Q. Was it you then, who caused this mirror
to appear just now, with some reading we
could not make out ?
B. I caused it to be done.
Q. Can you tell how it is my seer can now
read your answers, and yet could not read in
the C. A. mirror ?
B. I suppose because I am not so purely
spiritual. Ha ! Ha !
Q. I have received from my good spirit
friend some valuable spiritual information,
which I also hope you will study and profit
by.
B. You are a prodigy. If you are as fond
of telling others what you tell me, and circulate
the report of receiving such wonderful infor¬
mation, you are quite entitled to one of those
paragraphs in the newspapers, headed, “Won¬
derful ! if true.”
Q. I am going to publish the book this
month, and as I hope you will be greatly
benefited by its perusal, just hand me over ten
pounds towards the expense of printing.
B. I could tell you how to get it, at least a
friend of mine could. He can appear in a
bottle of water, and leave a diamond at the
bottom worth a great deal more than that.
Q. I presume you obtain that from my
former discourses relating to Count St. Ger¬
main’s obtaining diamonds by the Ob.
B. Well, I can tell you the spirit who can
do it, and the formula for making him do so;
at least I can cause you to know it. Shall I ?
Q. Yes.
The seeress then said : He is gone. How
he’s come back and says-—
B. I wish you to cover up the other mirror.
I did so.
B. You must request the C. A. to keep
Jttly 2, 1880
3
THE SPIBITUALIST.
away now you have covered it up. Whilst he jj
is here, I cannot show you what I intended.
Q. I will not do that. Cannot you appear jj
on Fridays ?
R, I could do so if I chose ; but I do jS
not, because you put me off to suit the con- \>
venience of others who appear. If you liked, K
you might ask the C. A. to let me appear in k
that one. I don’t like coming in the smallest, k
I have something in my pocket, which Orion j>
gave me to show you, but I cannot do so un-
less I appear in the C. A. mirror, with the Ij
C. A. absent; it is something very interesting. I?
Q. You are aware the C. A. mirror is con- j
secrated to him, and entirely under his pro- |s
tecting charge, therefore I cannot allow it.
R. Well then, if you will remove this mir- k
ror from the wall, and the other mirror, I will |>
show you what I have in my pocket.
Emma then turned round and placed the K
Oval Mirror on the table, he continuing in |j
the mirror with his hand in his pocket. She |;
remarked: He is looking round so carefully ; is
he has taken out a silk pocket handkerchief <
rolled up; he is undoing it; something look- k
ing like a greatblackbeetle is in it; it is such |>
a horrid black thing, and so dreadfully ugly; K
he does not touch it with his fingers ; it is all K
over hair. It has come away from the hand- k
kerchief, and is standing upright upon two \)
legs, and has four others; its head is like a Is
bat with two horns. How you have gone k
further away from it. I wonder if this is I?
what he calls “ very interesting.”
Q. Is that your interesting black diamond js
you have there ? . k
R. No, but I will leave him here, and from j)
him you can ascertain how to get the real I!
ones. Is
Q. But what, may I ask, is the name of R
the gentleman your are leaving ?
R. He will himself have the pleasure of in- |j
forming you.
Emma said: Now you are gone.
Q. Will you let me know by what name I !/
am to address you ? |!
ft, * * # * # * |
The seer remarked: He is getting so large ; k
he is nearly as big as the mirror.
I asked: Can you tell me the formula for
obtaining diamonds in the Ob ?
R. I can bring them into a vessel of water, K
if you will send other spirits away who are j<
around. !
Q. I cannot do that this evening, but if you j)
will appear on another evening it can be done ; Is
besides I have not my Ob ready now. | j
R. There is no time like the present.
Q. If you have the power you describe, it
seems strange such simple things should re¬
strain you.
R. What are simple things? I can only
deposit a diamond in water because I belong
to water; but I cannot even do that unless
you dispel the influence which now I feel
very strong.
Q. I will not dispel my own Guardian
Spirit.
R. Would you dispel him on another even¬
ing, and willingly ?
Q. No, but on another evening you could
appear without my having called him.
R. That is not what I ask ; called or not,
his influence is the same, and when I am with
you that influence is opposed to me.
Q. Then I must go without the diamonds,
as I would not willingly displace myself from
his care and guidance.
R. Would you, if I could point out to you
one more powerful and as faithful ?
Q. I could not obtain a more faithful
Guardian Spirit, and above all he gives me that
knowledge which I covet more than all the
diamonds of the deep.
R. Will you let me appear without exorcism
then ?
Q. Only when I invoke you—What shall be
the formula used when I call you ?
R. My name alone will bring me.
My seer said: He is gone. Now you are
come back.
Q. Well, you seem to have a disreputable
lot of acquaintances, where did you get this one ?
R. He is my pocket companion and guide
for 1856.
Emma: Now he has turned round and
walked off. (9.15 p m.)
On the following Tuesday I explained at
length to the C. A. our last action, and ex¬
pressed much regret that my atmospheric
“ double ” should be apparently so much
under the influence of an evil spirit.
The C. A. replied : The same spirit procured
the diamonds for Count St. Germain, and
Joseph Balsamo, and as you had for so many
years taken such intense interest in their lives
and actions it clung to the remembrance. As
for your atmospheric spirit, he is now, as you
were once, desirous of obtaining magical know¬
ledge and power unmindful perhaps of spiritual
good; but that does not make any difference
to you. His actions do no harm to anyone,
for his spiritual life will end without any judg¬
ment hereafter.
4
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jttly 2, 1880
ANOTHEB DOPPEL-GANGER.
In April, 1852, the atmospheric spirit of a
military officer of rank at Court, a Spaniard
and a Roman Catholic (who afterwards served
in the Crimea) appeared for the first time in
my H. Crystal. I never knew him in the
world, but we formed a mutual attachment,
assisting each other in our occult studies, and
commanicating our experiences. He possessed
the faculty of seeing spirits, and was a con¬
stant visitor in my mirrors and crystals for
eight years. He would never tell us his name,
and we dubbed him Captain Anderson.
On the 6th February, 1856, he was relating
to me the difficulties he was in with a spirit he
had invoked, and I said : I hope you did not
use a vessel of water. He replied : No, I did
not, and never intend to do so again. Did I
ever tell you how a spirit escaped from a bottle
of water I was once using? I replied: No,
do tell us that.
captain Anderson’s relation—an elementary spirit
—THE BOTTLE IMP.
I had been looking in the crystal one even¬
ing for a long time without having a vision.
Before I left off, I asked the spirit of the
crystal, very earnestly, when I could have a
vision, for it was so very wearisome to look
and to anticipate, and then be disappointed.
This message immediately came:—
Procure a glass vessel a foot deep, flat in¬
side, and six inches squarefill it with water
from a fish-pond; let the neck of the vessel be
sufficiently large to admit your three fingers.
Cut the middle finger of your left hand, and
having put a strip of paper round the outside
of the middle of the bottle, write with the
blood of the finger you have cut, this one
name * * * * Paste this strip of paper
round the bottle, and then insert the finger
you have cut and two other fingers into the
neck, and from it into the water let a drop of
blood flow. If you do this you will see and
hear of that which will instruct you in spiritual
knowledge, and aid you in all that you desire
appertaining to the world.
Although I thought it could not be good,
I did not desire anything evil, and I thought,
foolishly, that I could hear, and see, and know
what they said, without allowing them to in¬
fluence me, or without for one moment sur¬
rendering myself to their possession. I would
not do it again. It was not the power but the
knowledge that I sought. I was at the time
in a house with a good many people in it, and
fearing that someone might interrupt me I
»| locked the door. Before I began I had been
obliged to have the glass bottle made to the
exact size, and I wrote the name on a Vellum
[! band and sealed it on. This I placed On the
>1 table, and very soon without any call—I used
j nothing more than the name on the bottle—
! the water began to change to a thick dirty red
)| liquid, and from this there formed, as the
>| water again became clearer, a spirit more like
j an animal than even a distorted human figure;
h it had a tail as long in proportion to its size as
>| is the tail of a mouse to the rest of the animal,
j and it had peculiarly shaped horns. It in-
<| creased in size so as to fill the entire bottle,
<| the tips of the horns rising above the water in
P the neck of the bottle. When I saw its head
)j coming above the water, I thought I should be
si able to prevent its getting any larger by
?| putting a stopper on the top. I could not
find anything to place over it at the moment,
but a book from the mantlepiece. The instant
P that I stepped across for the book, the horns
?| of the spirit were visible to me above the
P bottle. Very quickly you may imagine 1 Was
Sj back with the book. -1 am very strong, as
<j strong, I believe, as most men; I can lift a
p couple of hundredweight, and now I had oc-
)| casion to put my strength forth. I tried to
>j press the book on the neck of the bottle with
a all my might, but I could not move it one
p inch. My hands and the book in them went
>! up as easily as I could have lifted a baby’s
<| hands. I grew desperate. I tore the band off
d the bottle; I used exorcism. There was no
>j fire in the room, and no light, or I would have
Sj immediately burned the band. I could not
sj tear it, and I had no means of destroying it;
p the spirit all this time was gradually getting
p out of the bottle.
\ I could not think what to do ; I took the
' bottle up, threw it down and broke it; the
p water of course ran all over the carpet, and
p I thought for a moment that I had got rid of
s| the spirit, but I was mistaken, for from the
j water, as it lay on the floor, it rose again much
P larger than before.
Sj I went to the door, but I wa§ afraid to open
Sj it; then in an instant I thought he might be
sj only visible to me and not to others, and that
p if I were with other people he would disappear
>j from me, and I tried the door, but could not
s open it. I forgot that I had locked it. Again
< I used the form of dismissal and exorcism but
j it was of no use. Having done this, I asked
Sj him what he wanted. He asked me to test
q his power by naming anything I desired, and
p said that if I found that he gave it me and if
5
July 2, 1880 THE S P I
I would promise him obedience, he Would do
the same in all other things.
I resolutely told him that I would not—that
had I known he was evil and could escape from
the bottle I would not have called him; still
he did not leave, and I then felt the place to
be insufferable, so oppressive as to be almost
suffocating. My eyes seemed to bum, I was
getting giddy, and appeared to see instead of
the one figure a thousand of all shapes and
sizes. I still remained with my hand on the
lock; the room became confused and dark for
one instant only, than all was light. The evil
spirit was gone, and I noticed that every drop
of water was gone from the surface of the
carpet, and that on the white ground which
surrounded the pattern, Was a single red spot.
Although unnerved whilst the spirit was pre¬
sent, I was not the least so the moment it was
gone, and on stooping to pick up the small
pieces of bottle, I observed round the red spot
a circle contaning words. Even then, by an
impulse I could not control, I was all on fire
to know what those words Were, and down on
my knees I deciphered with much difficulty,
u * * * * returns blood which is
too white for a sacrifice.” The red spot rose
above the carpet, the Words disappeared, and
there only remained a little piece of cold con¬
gealed blood: this I removed. In an adjoining
room I burnt the band which had been round
the bottle, threw away the pieces of bottle,
and determined to be more cautious in future.
ANOTHER APPARITION STORY FROM
IRELAND.
The Lance, an Irish paper, gives the follow¬
ing account of an alleged appearance of an
apparition in the Franciscan Church in Gal-
wav :—
On the afternoon of Thursday, 3rd inst.,
some girls were in the church, and over the
side altar of St. Joseph they saw a luminous
appearance. It seemed that there were three
figures clearly defined on the wall in a pris¬
matic sort of colour, the centre one, a tall
female, having her head wrapped about with
a coif. They were frightened, and ran out of
the church. Some people, one of them a
policeman, entered, and saw the figures. Soon
they faded away. As the story of what had
been seen spread, thousands of people poured
into the church to gaze on the spot where the
figures were said to have been seen, but
nothing was then apparent. So crowded did
the church become, and so excited were the
people, that the building had to be cleared
RITUALIST.
?! and the gates locked. In fact the police had
)| to keep the gates. Next morning hundreds of
si the people of Galway went to confession, and
c j that evening the church had also to be cleared
)j and locked. On Saturday and Sunday the
same feeling of excitement and belief pre-
s| vailed. The Franciscans will not pronounce
< upon the matter, saying themselves that they
?! do not know what to think of it; but on Sun-
;| day the subject was mentioned from the altar
sj in one of the other churches of Galway. The
! place where the apparition is alleged to have
?j been seen is over St. Joseph’s altar at the
)| head of one of the side aisles. About three
s; feet to the side of where the apparition was
11 seen is a large damp mark or stain remarkably
I like the silhouette of a kneeling woman, but
I the people on being questioned say that this
| has appeared since Thursday, and that it
I could not have influenced the minds of the
| people who are believed to have seen the
| apparition. —St. J%mes Gazette, June 12th, 1880.
si  4—jA
\ | [Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express
S i opinions diametrically opposed to those of this Journal arid its
Sj readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; copies
) I should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which
) I are not anonymous.] ■ - -
DEFINITIONS OF RELIGION.
Sir,—The length of post between your office and my
s I Highland home I never more regretted than at this
) i moment, since it obliges me to notice in a short and
s | hurried letter at the close of a busy day Mr. Podmore’s
> j kind and courteous criticism of my paper. As matters
? i stand I can but gratefully thank him for it, and say that
Si so far from misrepresenting me he has in the opening
paragraph of his “rejoinder” stated admirably and
<1 concisely my views.
S j Concerning religion I heartily concur in all that he
? j has said, but are we not prone to forget that Universal
(j Brotherhood depends upon the recognition of Divine
S i Fatherhood ? Without the secondary binding the primary
? | is imperfect: without the primary the secondary is im-
S i possible: hence its essential character. Altogether the
?j difference between us appears to me to be one which a
(j few verbal and economical explanations would set at
Sj rest. J. A. Campbell.
)! Argyllshire, Sunday Evening.
ALLAN KARDEO
. Sir,—Pray give me a little space in which to request
K Mr. Campbell to explain what he means by his strange
) allusion to Allan Kardec in his paragraph marked “ 6 ”
j?j on page 285 of the current number of your paper,
x which has just reached me.
I /1 Allan Kardeo was educated at a Pestalozzian Insti-
!(! tute in Switzerland ; while still a mere youth, he studied
iSj the New Testament carefully for himself and thus ar-
j?j rived at a belief identical with that of the Unitarians;
jx j he never entered any church or chapel and had no deal-
j) ings with priests or parsons of any denomination.
k j According to the directions contained in his will, his
ISj remains received “civil burial,” that is to say, they
j?i were buried by his friends, without the presence of
j^! any minister of any denomination whatever.
6
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 2, 1880
Perhaps the printers have left out a comma after the i
words “her own angels,” or have omitted brackets K
that should have made a parenthesis of the thirteen j?
following words. I am unwilling to suppose that at K
this time of day, any writer on the great movement of j)
our age <?ould be guilty of misrepresentation so utterly <
preposterous as the insinuation which appears to be im- is
“plied by the latter part of the paragraph in question. >
Anna Blackwell. j<
Wimille, Pas de Calais.
June 13, 1880. j;
SPIRITUALISM IN CAPE TOWN.
Sir,—I am very glad to inform you that so far Mr.
Walker’s efforts here have been crowned with the
greatest success, the Athenaeum Hall being crowded
every Sunday evening to hear his addresses.
The people are puzzled to hear him give impromptu
answers to the questions put to him at the close, which
are always uttered without hesitation and to the point.
It is my opinion that such lectures do the most good,
for they appeal to the reason of the listeners and make
them think.
In Cape Town we have many sympathisers with the
cause, and now that Mr. Walker has established a Sun¬
day morning class for discussion, it is hoped that much
progress will be made.
We have circulated a large number of your “leaflets ”
which are very good to dissipate certain ideas that the
general public have gained through reading the garbled
reports which appear in most of the newspapers. They
ought to be given away by thousands as the cost is but
a trifle. Berks T. Hutchinson.
Cape Town, South Africa, May 18th, 1880.
REMARKABLE SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS. jS
BY MAJOR GENERAL J. W. N. MACLEAN.
It appears to me that Spiritualism has of K
late increased and spread to such an extent, |?
that probably there are few streets or squares |>
in London in which at least once in the week |s
seances are not held, with either public or k
private mediums. The fear however of ridi- j;
cule from unbelieving friends, often prevents I?
the public from hearing of the wonderful and K
interesting occurrences which so frequently |?
take place, and this I think is to be regretted, |>
as the opinion of people who do not consider h
the subject worth the trouble of enquiring j(
into, should he of little import to those who 1?
Tcnow what they witness to he true.
Last Saturday evening I attended one of s
these social friendly meetings that I have jc
alluded to, and at which phenomena occurred |;
well worthy, I think, of a place in The ?
Spiritualist. K
Our party, assembled at the apartments k
of Captain James, 129, Gower Street, consis- |)
ted of the following persons : Captain James, $
Miss Biccalton, Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher, Colonel K
Evans, Mr. Wedgwood, Signor Rondi, Mr. j?
Wilding, Mr. Rita (the medium) and myself, j)
I^We had hardly taken, our places and put Is
out the light when the voice of the spirit, who l!
calls himself “ Charley Barry ” was heard, and
well defined spirit lights were observed dart¬
ing about in different directions.
Charley proposed bringing Miss Riccalton’s
pet cat upstairs from the ground floor to the
second floor where we were sitting, but the
owner of the cat fearing inconvenience or
injury to her favorite, expressed a wish that
Charley would bring something else instead
of the cat, and to this the accommodating spirit
at once agreed, and said “ At any rate I will
bring up something from down-stairs that
could not be put into any one’s pocket,” and
he afterwards added that he would bring a
flower-pot and plant. I may here mention
that I had myself locked the door of the stance
room and Mr. Wilding had locked the door of
the adjoining room. Shortly after Charley’s
proposal, he was heard to exclaim “ Take care
‘Irresistible ’ don’t drop it,” and then some¬
thing heavy was heard alighting or being
placed on the table. A light having been
struck, much to the delight of all present a
flower-pot containing a fuschia plant was
found to he standing on the middle of the
table, both the pot and plant being very wet.
The plant was one which had been observed
with three other plants, placed on a table
standing on the landing place of the first floor,
and these plants had been seen by several of
the party on going up-stairs to the stance room,
hut on going down there were hut three pots
remaining, an empty space being left where
the missing pot had been standing. This
flower-pot has since been weighed, and with
the earth contained in it found to weigh 41bs.
loz., measuring oh inches in height and the
same across the top ; the fuschia is six inches
high.
A folded slate had been fastened round the
edges with gummed paper and tied with cord,
over which a seal had been fixed. At the
stance, this slate was held by three of the
company, and at the close of the meeting it
was found to contain scribbling on both sides.
I will now refer to what pertains more es¬
pecially to myself. During all the day I had
been suffering from a severe attack of neu¬
ralgia, (a thing I am, I regret to say, subject
to,) and was in so great pain that I felt very
much inclined to absent myself from the
stance. I am glad, however, I did not do so.
Very shortly after the stance began, two soft
warm little hands commenced mesmerising
me, making the usual passes down my fore¬
head and over the top and back of my head,
now and then resting the fingers lightly on
7
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 2, 1880
my eyes so as to close them, and then passing i>
down the face. After a short time a spirit jS
voice whispered in silvery tones the name |<
of a very dear deceased female relation of R
mine, as being present and mesmerising me, \)
and I was kissed three times on the forehead, o
hut so quietly and softly that I was only just |<
conscious of what had occurred.
With almost the first touches of the spirit j
hands the severe and painful neuralgia, as <
if by magic, ceased and left, me, and I am <
glad to say has not since returned, a feeling <
of cheerfulness and health taking the place of |J
one of depression and suffering.
I hope I have not made my story too long, j<
but I could hardly have done the stance j<
justice otherwise than by narrating all that |J
took place at it, and I have no hesitation in j
saying it was one of the best and most interest- <
ing stances I have ever attended, and I hope i!
I may be at many more like it.
69, Gloucester Gardens, Hyde Park, London, June 28th.
 ♦ 
MESMERISM AND STATUYOLENCE.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S., AUTHOR OF “ LETTERS TO \\
MISS MARTINEAU.”
I am very glad to hear more of Dr. Fahnestock 11
and his doings and ideas from F. P. T. of j;
Towanda in America, and considering all said, l
it tallies very much with my own experiences |!
and with very notable instances in psychological 11
and physiological laws. It also shows that the j
influence we hold over the mesmeric patient
has more to do with belief and expectancy, and |
quiet attention and waiting on results, than |;
on any strongly exerted will and effort on the |
part of the medium or operator, or on a com- |
bined force and will on the part of the members |
of a circle in which we find mesmerism and |
Spiritualism hand-in-hand, each exhibiting the j
common law to the other. At first when I j
took to mesmerism I fancied that the most !
powerful and concentrated exertion of the
will was the chief source of the result on j
the patient—the strong will on the passive J
recipient—but I soon discovered the mis- j
take, and that the conditions in patient and
operator were more effective factors than i
force and quantity. I also found that my I
mere presence combined with a desire on the !
part of both patient and operator, or u the |
laying on of the hand ” gently on the shoulder I
or hand of the sufferer was more effective ; and j
I found it to be the same in table moving. In j
fact, I came to see that in efforts of will we I
were wasting the power in a wrong direction, |
that is to say on ourselves, and for the |
confirmation of which one might refer to the I
ordinary facts of life. To recall a forgotten
name you must cease the effort. When I
make an effort to see the time from the clock
over the way and I do not succeed, I cease
the effort, turn aside, and there are the hands
of the distant clock distinctly visible before me.
Newton said that if there were any difference
between himself and others, it was that he
directed his mind on what he desired to con¬
sider, and waited patiently for the thoughts to
come, which is what Professor Tyndall refers
to as pondering over a question, or as in the
ancient fable of Cupid, representing the pri¬
mary elements being “hatched beneath the
brooding wing of night.” Besides, we most
of us know what it is to sit down to write
without effort, and as Barry Cornwall said,
“ the thoughts seem to come out of the
pen,” and we have it recorded of the poetic
genius how the thoughts flow in and u move in
harmonious numbers” as expressed by Words¬
worth. Scott tells us in his diary that he was
(< often annoyed with the critics distinguishing
some passages as particularly laboured, when
the pen passed over the whole as fast as it
could move, and the eye never again saw them,
except in proof.” He dictated the whole of
The Bride of Lammermoor from his sick bed,
never saw a proof, and when it was shown to
him in the published volumes he had forgotten
all about it; he must therefore have dictated
the whole when in something like what F. P. T.
terms “ condition.” This is an instance of
what I have always asserted, that nothing
really occurs in Spiritualism or in Mesmerism
but what may sometimes occur without any
such like applications or appliances, and with¬
out the seeking for.
I have only to add that the phenomena ex¬
hibited in so-called statuvolence, are quite
similar to those which occur under the name
of animal magnetism, and all that has been
said about the action of the patient’s thought
and attention to his own condition does not
differ from our experience in mesmerism, in¬
cluding the fact of our being able to induce
the patient “ in condition ” to forget, re¬
member, omit, or act in respect to what may
be beneficial to him when “ awake ” or out
of the “ condition.” But the doctor takes no
note of those numerous mesmeric cases wherein
the patients are insensible, and cannot direct
their attention to the evil in question, which
exhibits the common mistake of forcing a theory
to cover the whole range of correlated facts.
Then again, thought-reading and the sympathy
generally between patient and operator, show
8
THE SPIR
the existence of an animal magnetic relation
which seems to he ignored, as itfith the late
Mr. Serjeant Cox, who also denied the fact of
any animal magnetic force and influence,
hut with an astounding inconsistency granted
you ally amount of the same vital influence
under another name, that of “ psychic force.”
However, he meant well, and is gone and has
not returned, I believe; and the Psychological
Society, wanting the fountain head of psychic
forfce, Soon followed. Lord Brougham once
said that the pleasantest idea in the other life
would he to look hack and observe the success
of the institutions you had founded when on
earth, a somewhat worldly notion, hut still he
being of the world, how could he have any
hut ideas belonging to the world we live in
and which gave us birth and the birth of all
our ideas ? Well, for animal magnetism then
we have the term u psychic force,” and for the
mesmeric state the indefinite word “ condition,”
and the not ^ery intelligible expression
a statuvolence ” for the whole position, includ¬
ing operator, patient, and the TVhole theory
and phenomena evolved.
A SPONTANEOUS APPARITION.
By the Australian mail which arrived last
Friday, we received a copy of The Ovens and
Murray Advertiser, of May 4th, last, containing
the following narrative which it quotes from
The Geelong Advertiser:—
“As I know you feel interested in such
circumstances, I write, in case you may not
have heard it, to tell you of a very remarkable
circumstance connected with the death, at
Hamilton, of the late Archdeacon Innes. The
archdeacon, as you know, died of diphtheria,
and though perfectly sensible to the last, was
unable to articulate a syllable, and was, there¬
fore, compelled to have recourse to writing.
This lends additional value to the circumstance
which I have to tell you. For some months
the archdeacon had been assisted as lay-reader
by a young man recently arrived from home
named Lissefman, who, though not remark¬
able either for culture or natural ability, yet
endeared himself to the archdeacon and all
who knew him by his thoroughgoing earnest¬
ness and goodness; After worlaiig for a few
months he fell a victim to prostrated energy,
and died at the parsonage, at Hamilton, a few
weeks before the archdeacon. Just before
his death the archdeacon, who, as I told you,
expressed all he had to say in writing, and
was compos mentis to the last) wrote that going
ihto his study one evening* afte* Lisserman’s
ITUALIST. July 2, 1880
death, he saw him standing at the study table,
and involuntarily exclaimed ‘ Holloa ! are ydit
here ? ’ ‘Yes,’ replied the apparition, ‘ and
where I now am there will you soon be! ’
Mr. Inhes was not a man of fancies, or of
impaired physique; and when he saw the
apparition was in the enjoyment of robust
health. These facts are well knovrii and
vouched for.”
 . .
SPIRITUALISM IN HAMBURG.
BY CHRISTIAN REIMERS.
Soon after my arrival in Hamburg, I was
welcomed by some members of the newly
formed organisation for “ Psychological
Studies,” and a considerable number of that
body met yesterday at my present residence,
in my brother’s pleasant grounds at the
Oarlsthal, in Bahrenfeld, near Altona. A
rather melancholy feature of the event was
the absence of my esteemed friend, Baron
Dickinck Holmfeld, who departed from earth-
life a few weeks ago. This news sadly damped
my anticipations, for besides his healthy
enthusiasm for Spiritualism in general, his
conversation on the machinations of the
counter-powers and the intrigues against pro¬
gress of enlightenment was always particularly
interesting, because in part deduced from
knowledge gained during interviews with
illustrious personages. His allusions to
Jesuitism, for instance, seemed to command
attention, because the incidents he narrated
were directly drawn from observation. Hence
his remarks were not founded on mere specu¬
lation, but had the support of facts and per¬
sonal experience. His hints and warnings
about “ hostile designs beyond the mere range
of hard scepticism ” deserve notice. I per¬
sonally particularly regret this “interruption”
of our intercourse, as Baron Holmfeld told me
of medial impressions bearing on political
events to come, and which proved to be true;
these experiences would have been extremely
valuable if verifled by the still living witnesses,
among them prominent crowned heads. Per¬
haps some of these revelations may yet come
to light; but at all events, a sketch of the
life of this original man may in due time
be welcome to the readers of the Spiritualist.
The Hamburg Spiritualistic Society or or¬
ganisation, which wisely adops “ psychology ”
in its title, has suffered attacks from the
School-board, because some of its prominent
members are the elite of the teachers; it has
also been censured in Town Council meetings,
a most vulgar and abusive controversy in the
9
Jttly 2, 1880
THE SPIRITUALIST.
daily papers having furnished the august \&
rulers of the public with Warnings about the ||
spreading “ poison of Spiritualism.” If j;j
Professor Zollner and other professors ought j|{
to be dismissed, our brave spiritualistic Ham- K|
burgers ought not to feel much surprised at j?j
their own position. However, a kind of “ dis- |)i
solution ” of the present organisation, which Kj
is too weak to stand against opposing and kl
venerable old ones, is a wise “ tactick ” to |)i
prepare a broader basis for the future, and I }S|
feel confident the start which has been made K|
will ensure splendid results in the end, as I m
found my friends to be of the right sort and
make in every respect. A newspaper contro- |S|
versy on the visit of Mr. and Mrs. Herne, and Kj
on the folly of Spiritualism, is so vulgar, and U\
void of all sober argument, that its effect may j>j
turn ultimately in favour of truth. Intelli- Isj
gent readers must feel inclined to inquire j<j
about the genuine side, after the cloud of abuse
has dispersed. A friend has handed me the !>j
collected “ chips ” of these grand philoso- j>j
phical exchanges among Hamburg intellects, k|
and I have received much amusement from j?j
the logical gymnastics and somersaults. One j)j
correspondent gives in The Reform, of April Kj
14th, several rules for driving away mani- j(j
festations, principally by holding firm; or Kj
rather squeezing the hands of the mediums. }>j
I fully concurred with the writer when he Kj
signed himself : “ Another Miserable Material- !<j
ist.” Truly, we have so many of them, that ;j
a single addition to their order needs no K|
boasting.
I was pleased to find that after inconsider- kl
able experience, comparatively speaking, in j>j
practical phenomena, my Hamburg Spiritua- Kj
lists discovered at once the fallacy of the s|
attacks on Mr. Eglinton at Munich, although kj
every alleged “ exposure ” acts furiously on a j)j
circle of new investigators. A brother-in-law S
of mine, who had received positive tests with Kj
Mr. Williams, expresses himself now as “ cured j \ j
of the imposition of Spiritualism,” and has j>j
once more tried the spirits—and his own wits, jsj
The “mechanical frog” was a “ leap in the <
dark” for my Hamburgers, who promptly j?|
turned their suspicions on the capacity of ob- j;|
servation of the circle at Munich.
I warned the alarmed Parisians, that this Kj
frog should not be allowed to leap in their kj
brains and upset the extremely tender film j;j
of practical experience to be found there, |sj
nevertheless the little animal held its sway <j
rather too long. In consequence of Mr. |>i
Eglinton’s letters, I feel bound to explain |>j
that I was informed by Mohs, de Pappard that
Eglinton would be invited to a test-seance
in presence of a conjuror, of which latter cir¬
cumstance be said I must not tell Mr.
Eglinton. I protested at once against this
arrangement, but posted at the same time a
letter to Eglinton, to accept the invitation
in a way to “Secure” that Conjuror. My
step has been misconstrued in regard to
that ardent spiritist, Mons. Jacob the conjuror,
who is a sincere and honest believer—which
I never doubted. I directed my protest
against the principle, not the person. But I
hope that these little local misunderstandings
will melt away in the face of the grand pro¬
blems before us, challenging our noblest
faculties.
The “ Allan Kardec ” propaganda and the
reincarnation theory seem to make a serious
split in our camp here. Stubborn prejudice
mars impartial inquiry, and in the law of de¬
velopment an eVer so pure “ forcing of
growth ” will do immeasurable harm. For
the time being, it is to me a truly grand idea
that a returning to earth-life may answer the
demand for a completion of the circle of
evolution, as in harmony With the principle
of justice to all cfeatures; but if personal
and actual contact with progressive oppor¬
tunities is indispensable to ultimate success,
then the spiritual philosophers and theorists
(say those in Paris) ought not to look down
on English and American brothers as below
the mark, but themselves be re-converted to
experimental investigation, to learn the ins and
outs of the phenomena before establishing a
‘‘ temple. ’ ’ I am, I confess, a poor phenomena-
bound Spiritualist, to benefit those of my fellow
creatures who Want to be drawn out of the
swamp of materialism, by materialistic spirit¬
ual demonstrations. Teachings must go hand-
in-hand with facts.
 4 
ONE SUMMER DAY.
In the morning bright and fair
We went sailing down the tide ;
High above and far and wide
Light and love were in the air.
Sailing seaward to the sun>
Underneath the purple skies,
Summer love-light in our eyes,
Cares or sorrows we had none.
Wild rich music from the shore,
Where the birds sweet love-lays sang,
O’er the crystal waters rang;
We shall hear it evermore.
10
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Soft south breezes filled our sail—
Silken sail of azure hue,
And upon the waters blue
Sunbeams streaked a yellow trail.
Fragrant roses pure and white,
Fair as Eden gave of old,
Crowned my love’s bright locks of gold,
Falling like rich rays of light.
Lilies lay upon her breast—
Virgin lilies white and sweet;
’Neath their leaves her young heart beat,
My hot lips their tendrils prest.
Passion’s rapture in her eyes,
On her cheek the ripe red rose,
Fairer than in garden grows :
In her soul deep yearning sighs.
Wild our hearts, all mute our lips,
Save with lovers’ language sweet:
Life at such an hour is fleet,
Down the glass the sand fast slips.
High above the purple sky,
All around the azure sea,
Farmed by fragrant breezes free,
Heart to heart my love and I.
Life holds nothing sweet as love,
Love that springs to life unsought:
Love untutored, love unbought:
Love, the life of spheres above.
In the morning bright and fair
We went sailing down the tide;
High above and far and wide
Love and light were in the air.
Ernest Wilding.
Whitehall Review, May 22nd, 1880.
 ♦ 
A SUMMER SONG.
(With a Wintry Air.)
Arise ! my soul, and see
These flow’rs so fresh and fair;
The rose, carnation, jessamine,
And maiden-hair.
The pansy’s velvet leaf,
Of richest purple glow,
Reclineth by the soft pure white
Of myrtle blow.
Behold yon smiling sky,
Of brightest turquoise blue;
An emblem of fair love,
When love is true.
List to the bird’s sweet song,
No longer mute is he,
Inspired by summer sun,
His minstrelsy.
July 2, 1880
| Thou wert responsive once,
>| To Nature’s lightest tone;
Ij Why art thou silent now ?
|| Why weep alone ?
>!' Hast thou no ear to hear,
j Hast thou no eye to" see,
Or voice to answer aught
<|j That cries to thee ?
Oh! wail of vanished joy,
Oh! dirge of all things dear,
>1 Such are the echoes now
Resounding here.
>j Chester Jj. F. S.
THE SWEDENBORG SOCIETY.
The annual meeting of this society was held
>| on Tuesday, the 15th inst., at 36, Bloomsbury
> Street, London, W.C. Dr. Stocker presided.
11 The report of the committee states that the
J| results of the society’s operations during the
>| year have been most satisfactory. 3,697 yoIs.
)| have been sold and presented. In addition to the
<1 ordinary subscriptions, the following donations
?j have been made to the society’s fund, viz.,
>| £500 from Dr. J. Jackson, of Elk Horn,
!| Oregon, U.S.A., to be invested and the interest
11 to be applied in perpetuity to translating and
11 printing the works of Swedenborg in the
;] foreign and spoken languages of the world.
S| To the general fund, £100 from the Rev. A.
| Clissold, M.A.; £250 from H. R. Williams,
Esq., and £19 19s. from the executors of the
>| late Mr. F. Allen. Reference was made to
;! the present unsettled state of religious opinion
|| in the Christian world, particularly in con-
j] nection with the recent proceedings in the Free
>| Church of Scotland, and the expression of the
Sj opinion of the professors that li an epidemic of
11 heresy seemed to have attacked all the
?j churches.” Numerous applications from cler-
>| gymen and students for one or two of the
Sj representative works of Swedenborg had been
| received, and in most cases the volumes had
?j been supplied The translation of Mr. Pan-
j>| durung’s “ Reflections ” into the Marathi lan-
|| guage is nearly completed, and the “ New
j Jerusalem and its Heavenly Doctrine” will
| shortly be commenced in the Greek language,
j In Italy the four works which have already
I been translated into Italian are about to be
| offered to the libraries of Italy, of which there
| are 143 public and 110 municipal. The library
I of Athens has been supplied with 228 volumes
| of the works, and the library and reading-room
j at Smyrna with 22 volumes. The following
j resolutions were passed unanimously, and the
| meeting was closed with the Benediction :—
THE SPIRITUALIST.
11
July 2, 1880
u That in the opinion of this meeting the near con- lb
elusion of the labours of the Committee for the revision | r
of the Bible presents an opportunity for expressing the is
gratitude of every Christian to the Lord for the boon L
of a translation of the Divine Word, which will afford |c
a truer basis than heretofore upon which the natural K
mind can rest. And to the members of the New Church w
at large, and more particularly to the members of the |<
Swedenborg Society, the revision of the Bible is an ob- ib
ject of especial interest, occurring as it does on this the j)
70th anniversary of the Society. The new translation <
will supply a wider sphere of usefulness to this Society j)
from the evidently growing desire on the part of its i?
readers to become acquainted with the spiritual truths K
which are contained in it.”
‘1 That in past ages and under former dispensations the I <
Lord provided for the best interests of His human family |S
by giving them a knowledge of the truth adapted to j)
their states and capacities, and that in these last days, K
to meet the requirements of an advanced inteUigence, |>
He has given under His dispensation, the New Jerusa- K
lem, a high developement of revealed truth, by disclos- is
ing the internal sense of His Holy Word, which I)
supplies the human mind with the means of attaining !?
a faith which rests on the harmonious testimony of K
Scripture, and which is consonant with sound reason, j>
and supported by all true science.”
SCOTCH GHOSTS.
Hugh Miller, in his “ Schools and School- <
masters,” gives an instance from his childhood k
which seems to rank him among veritable ghost |j
seers. He gives a reminiscence of that night \)
when in the wild and fatal tempest his father K
went down at sea. His mother had just re- |?
ceived a cheerful letter from his father, so that |>
there were no forebodings in the dwelling. K
She was sitting, plying her cheerful needle by K
the household fire; the door had been left |?
unfastened, and she sent little Hugh to shut |;
it; it was in the twilight. “A gray haze,” he S
says, u was spreading a neutral tint of dimness K
over the distant objects, but left the near ones |?
comparatively distinct, when I saw at the open 6
door, within less then a yard of my breast, as K
plainly as ever I saw anything, a dissevered R
hand and arm stretched toward me—hand and j)
arm were apparently those of a female ; they jS
bore a livid and sodden appearance, and directly j<
fronting me, where the body ought to have k
been, there was only a blank transparent space, '6
through which I see the dim forms of the ob- |>
jects beyond. I was fearfully startled, and ran K
shrieking to my mother, telling what I had k
seen ; and the house-girl, whom she next sent |>
to shut the door, apparently affected by my K
terror, also returned frightened, and said she K
too had seen the woman’s hand.” |)
In the University of St. Andrews a custom IS
obtains that, on the death of a professor, inti- K
mation of the event is conveyed by messenger k
to the other members of the institution. In $
1842, an aged professor was very ill, and his
decease was expected daily. One of his
colleagues sat down to his usual evening de¬
votions with his household. His wife was
reading a portion of Scripture when watch in
hand, the professor asked her whether it was
not precisely half-past nine. The lady taking
out her watch, answered that it was. When
the service was concluded, the professor ex¬
plained that at the time he had interrupted
the reading he had seen his ailing colleague,
who had signalled him an adieu. He felt
satisfied his friend had then expired. Hot
long after a messenger arrived, reporting that
Dr. H. had died that evening at half-past nine
o’clock.
There is a singular story connected with the
death of Mungo Park on his second great Afri¬
can expedition. His sister, Mrs. Thompson,
lived with her husband on their farm of
Myreton, among the Ochils. She had received
a letter from her brother, expressing his hope
that he would shortly return home, and saying
that she would not be likely to hear from him
again until she saw him on his return. Shortly
after this she was in bed; she instantly saw
her brother, the great traveller, open the door
and walk toward her in his usual attire. She
expressed her delight, sprang up from the bed,
stretched out her arms to embrace him, and
only folded them over her own breast. By
the dim light she could still only believe that
he had stepped aside, that he was, perhaps,
joking with her; and while she was upbraiding
him for retreating from her, her husband came
into the room and assured her of her delusion.
This was the last that was heard of Mungo
Park; the date of his death is unknown. Mrs.
Thompson is described as a shrewd, intelligent
woman, not at all inclined to superstition, but
she always believed that his death took place
at the time of the apparition, when she
imagined he had i cturned to her atMyreton.—
The Leisure Hour.
Private Seances.—At the two last seances, at Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory’s, 21, Green Street, Grosvenor
Square, London, Mr. Rita was the medium. The
physical manifestations were of the usual description,
materialised spirit forms being seen floating above the
table, while the medium was held by both hands. Such
manifestations are interesting to inquirers, but ex¬
perienced Spiritualists perfer more advanced develop¬
ments. Last Wednesday night, curiously enough, a
spirit who once obstructed manifestations through the
mediumship of Mr. Williams, was at once recognised
as the same when he spoke through the mediumship of
Mr. Rita, and he similarly proceeded to interfere with
the other spirits who desired to produce results.
12
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 2, 1880
^SM$RI$ty[ AND ITS PHENOMENA,
Q&
ANIMAL MAGNETISM-
By the late Wm.'Gbboojit, '&.D.,F.'R.S.1Z., Professor qf Chemistry at Edinburgh
r -r t tt'ff Wnivereity. '
Pedioated by the Author by Permission to His Grace the Duke of Argyll.
second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its quality and size
fee cheapest large work ever published in this country in connection with
Spiritualism.
Jaat published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post Ires.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I s —First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations—Process
for causing'Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spon-
Hneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—Divided Coriscioushess
"-Senses affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by fee Operator over fee Subject in
Various Ways—Shaking Expression of Feelings in the Look and Gesture-
Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the ^Sleeper—Various Degrees of Suscepti¬
bility—-Sleep caused by Silent Will 5 and at a Distance—Attraction towards
the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CH APTER IIISympathy—Community of Sensations, of Emotions—
Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of Doubtful Advantage—
Sympafey wife the Bystanders—‘jTlpuglit Reading—Sources of Error—Medical
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of
a Peculiar Fqrce or Influence.
• CHAPTER IV :—JJirect Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without fee Eyes—
Vision bf'Near Object s' through OpaSqiie Bodies: at a distance—Sympathy and
Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons—Retro vision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER y:—I(Ucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, Ac., Predicted—Pre-
dictibii 'of Changes in fee Health or State*of the Seer—Prediction of Accidents
and of Events Affecting ofeers—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of
It—SporifaUeoua Retrovision and Prevision—-Peculiarities of Speech and of
Ooascjiousness in Mesmerised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CJHAPTEJt VIMesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology and
Hyphotihh, 'essentiall^'tMsaiiie—Phenomena of Suggestions in the Conscious
or Waking State—pr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Resints-^-The'Iriipressftle State—Control Exercised by the Operator—
Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The Author’s Experience—Importance of
PerseVerance —The Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII:—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric—Trance Pro¬
duced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not
all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis often Predicted—M. Chagnef’s
Extatics—Visions of fee Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIIIPhreno-Mesmerism—^Progress of Phrenology—Effects of
Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenomena—Suggestions—
Sympathy—There are Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do
not Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible ot Mesmerism
—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—Sympathy of Animals—Snail Tele¬
graph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IXAction of Magnets, Crystals, Ac., on fee Human Frame-
Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is Identical wife the Mesmeric Fluid of
Mesiner, or with the Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylie
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water
—iJseful Applications of Mesmerism—Physiological, Therapeutical, &c.—
Treatment of Insanity, Magic Divination, Witchcraft, &c., explained by Mes¬
merism and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight is Waking
Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or Suggested
—A Folce '(Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists, and is Probably the
Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of the
Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnambulism—Suggestion—Sympafey—Thought-
Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylic Emanations—Odylic Traces followed up by
Lucid Subjects—Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, &c..
Induce Walking Clairvoyance-Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of the
Futtire. ’ '
CHAPTER XI:—Interest felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science—Dne Limits
of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of Success in Experiments—
Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student-
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in fee Conscious or Waking State—
Effect? of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experi¬
ments With and Without Suggestion—Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments'—
Cases—Consoicjus or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by passes, or by Concen¬
tration—Major Buckley’s Method—Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Wakifig
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian
Magic.'
CHAPTER XIII r—Production of the Mesmeric 91eep—Cases—Eight put of
Nine Persons Reetently Tried by the* Author Thrown ihte Mesmeric Sleep-
Sleep Produced without the knowledge bf the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep
—Phreno-Mesmerism in fee Sleep—Sympathetic Clairvoyance in the Sleep-
Cases—Pereeption of Time^-Cases : Sir X. Franklin, Major Buckley’s Case of
RetruviSidii.1 ? -r
CHAPTER XTV:—Direct Clairyoyanc&T-Cases—Travelling Clairvoyance—
CaseA—Siiijfelar Vision of Mr. Pi.—Letters of Two Clergymen, withEasCs—
airvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV :—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous ^tesm^ric Phe¬
nomena—Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVICurative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding Remarks
and Summary.
SpwUfuUitt Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Museum-street. London.
<
K:
INFORMATION FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
Ijsr thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the most
civilised countries on the glohe, until it How has tens of thou¬
sands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It' has also out¬
lived the same popular abuse which at the outset opposed rail¬
ways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometime^ moved in the
presence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, devisor of the radiometer, and discoverer of the new metal
thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism in his own
house, and reported them to be true. |dr. A- R. Wallace, Mr.
Cromwell Yarjey, Prof. Zollner, and a great number of intelligent
professional men have done the same.
HO^ TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles m their own homes, with ho Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of
science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are proved to be
untrqe by the fact that manifestations are readily obtained by
private families, with no stranger present, and without deception
by any member of the family. At the present time there are
only about half a dozen professional mediums for the physical
phenomena in all Great Britain, consequently, if these were all
tricksters (which they are not), they are so few in number as to
be unable to bear out the imposture theory as the foundation of
the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers should
protect themselves against any impostors who may tell them that
the phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One Or more persons possessing medial powers without know¬
ing it are to be found in nearly every household, and about one
new circle in three, formed according to the following instruc¬
tions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interrup¬
tion for one hour during fhe sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sfein subdued light, but sufficient
to allo^v everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with its
top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not is of
little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, *
hut an acrid, feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should bp of a frivolous nature.
5. The first sympto'm of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table-tilting or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person qnly speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean Yes,” one means “ No,” and two mean
“Doubtful,” and ask whether the ^rrangemept is understood.
If three raps be given in answer, then say, ‘ * If I speak the
letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should
three1 signals be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and
from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as
trance or clairvoyance, may develop > the better olass ot
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical merits
usually accompany such manifestations rather than the more
objective phenomena. After the manifestations are obtained,
the observers shouljj not go to the other extreme and give way
to an excess of credulity, but should believe no more about them
or the contents of the message^ than they pie Jorced to <jo by
undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two seances because
no mpdium chances tp lie present, try again with other sitters.
A medium is usually an impulsive individual, very sensitive to
mesmeric influences.
Mediumship may either be used or abused, hlediums should
not lower their strength by sitting more than about twice a
week; angular, excitable people, had better avoid the nervpup
stimulus of mediumship altogether.
July 2, I860,
THE SPIEITTJALIST.
iii
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s,
OTHER-WORLT) ORDER?
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use
in the divine economy for all varieties of men and
women 5 and that there is not any one, however per-
verse or insignificant, who is not created for some
function in universal humanity. As to the question: of
everlasting punishment, Mr. White maintains an
original position. If asked whether he believes in the
everlasting punishmemt of sinners, he answers Yes; but
if asked whether he believes in everlasting sinners, he
answers, No. All the confusion, perplexity, and
anguish which exists as to the future life arise from
the constant assumption that the everlasting punish¬
ment of sin is identical with the everlasting existence
of sinners. Sin or transgression has been, is, and ever
will be eternally punished ; torment and misery are
everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing and
pricisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer
must, sooner or later, cease from wrong-doing. In
short, the everlasting punishment of sin is sure
warrant for the impossibility of everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
C^ALSE LIGHTS and DARK SPOTS
jL in Spiritualism, by Christian Reimers. One
Shilling.
K. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London.
Price Two Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Red Edges.
SPIRITUALISM.
By P. P. Alexander, M.A.,
Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
This work contains among other items of interest a
record of phenomena observed at seances by the author,
and a close criticism of some of the writings of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
“ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever
writer.”—Saturday Review.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.,
DESEARCHES IN THE PHENO-
.LL MENA OF SPIRITUALISM, by William
Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to
scientifically demonstrate, by means of self-recording
and other instruments, the reality of some of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s. The Spirit-
ttalist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Museum-st., W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE
AND VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing
useful information for those who hold, or are about to
hold, spirit circles in their own homes. Published at
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38,
Museum-street, London, W.O. Price Id. 5 Post free
for l£d; or six copies post free for 6d.
APHAEL’S PROPHETIC MES-
SENGER AND EPHEMERIS for 1880. Con-
taining Predictions of the Events and the Weather
that are likely to occur during the year 1880, with a
large Hieroglyphic.
‘‘Raphael’s” is the oldest and best Astrological
Almanac now published. He foretold the great floods, j
sad colonial calamities, and all the principal
events of the current year, even to the present Afghan
War! Buy, read, and judge it for yourself.
Post free 7d.; with Ephemeris, 13d.
London: S. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
British national associa-
TION OF SPIRITUALISTS, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury. This organisation comprising
several hundred members, has public offices, a reading
room and library, with a secretary in attendance to
receive visitors and answer inquiries. For terms,
information as to stances, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Office hours 2 p.m. to 9.30, dally. Saturdays 2 p.m.
to 6 p.m.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS
JL is offered a comfortable Social Home in a con¬
venient part of the city, by an English brother. The
apartments can only accommodate four persons.
Terms, board and all included, £3 per week each; or
for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, ” 8. C., ’ care of Mr. Bedford, 9, Rue
do la Pepiniere, Paris.
rUHE BANNER OF LIGHT: the
JL oldest journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy
in the world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-
place, Boston., Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and
proprietors. Isaac B. Rich, business manager;
Luther Colby, editor ; aided by a large corps of able
writers. The Banner is a first-class eight-paged family
paper, containing forty columns of; interesting and
instructive reading, embracing a literary departinent,
report of spiritual lectures, ' Original essays—upon
spiritual, philosophical, and scientific subjects;
editorial departinent; spirit message department;
contributions by the most talented writers in the
world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in advance,
15s per annum. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33, Museum-street, London. W.C
Price 3s, lid. imperial 8vo. ClotU, red edges, Postfree.
“ RIFTS IN THE YEIL.” 7"
A Collection of choice poems and prize essays given
through mediumship, also of articles and poems writ¬
ten by Spiritualists. A useful book to place in the
public libraries, and to present or send to those who
are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains much
about the religious aspects of Spiritualism, given
through the writing mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon),”
and is one of the most refined and elegant works ever
printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction:—The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ 0 ! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given
through the trance-mediumship of CoraL. V. Tappan-
Kiohmond,
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life.
Given through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
' V.—The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the
trance-mediumship of Cora L. V, Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post Mortem Work by Charles
Dickens. How the writings were produced. The
Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a
Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried: Dwellers
in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina
Weldon (Miss Treherne) and Mrs. 
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and
other Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Manyat
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A., Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By Baroness Adelma
Von Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —^Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham, By Lucia C.
Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J.
Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern
Spiritualism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis.' By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism.
By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Compara¬
tive Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily
Kislingbury from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox
Christianity. Given through the mediumship of
“ M.A. Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Stance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C.
Mauricre Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Francis Marryat.
XXXI. —The Deathbeds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the
Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the medium-
ship of “M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVT.—The Prediction. By Alice Worthington
(EnnesfaUen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to
Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the
Fakirs in India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor
of Natural Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic
Studies [Leipzig) by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harri¬
son.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By
Alex. Calder.
XII.—Dirge. <• By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XTJII.—Some of the difficulties of the Clergy in
Relation to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall
Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace,
F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33.
Museum-street, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies
of Paris, Berlin, ^funich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin ajncl
Florence. AuthoyoT the Prise Jlssay on “ M^ioerism
and Therap-etitics,” ay/toded by the'Milan Society ioi
thd Prbm&tion of ScieiicO1,' Airts aiid Letters.
( The Spirifuidist .Newspaper RrSnoif .Qffice, 33,
Mttfeurm-Btriet, London, W.C.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“POEMS PROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I.—The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song
Truth—III. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—
V. Love and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—Vli.
The Burial of Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd
and Gurda—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII.
Hope for the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV.
The Eagle of Freedom—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI.
Little Johnny—XVII. “ Birdie’s Spirit Song ”—
XVIII. My Spirit Home—XIX. “ I still Live”—XX
Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “For a’ that”—XXIII,
Words of Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
Prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII.
The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Balti¬
more—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness—XXX.
Farewell to Earth. The Spiritualist Newspaper
; Branch Office, 33, Museum-street, London, W.C.
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes
psychologiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, ap¬
pears on the 1st of every month. Price, 1 franc.
Published by the Societe Anonyme, 5, Rue Neuve d
iPetits Champs, Paris. Post-Office orders payable t
iLeymarie.
Just Published. Price 5s. 6d. Post free.
SPIRITUALISM AS A NEW
BASIS OF BELIEF.
By John S. Farmer.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I: — The Existing Breach between
Modern Culture and the Popular Faith.
Chapter II:—Modem Thought verses Modem Facts
Chapter III:—The Attitude of the Religious
World towards Modem Spiritualism.
Chapter IV:—The Popular Faith and the Claims
of Spiritualism as a Renewal of Revelation.
Chapter V:—The New Bases of Belief.
Chapter VI:—Inspiration and Revelation: their
Nature and Source.
Chapter VII:—The Identity of Bible Facts and
Spiritual Phenomena.
Chapter VIII:—Popular Errors and Objections
to Spiritualism Explained and Answered.
Chapter IX: — Immortality in the Light of
Modem Spiritualism.
Will be sent by the Author on receipt of Stamps or
P.O.O. (P.O.O’s made payable at Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.). Address, J. S. Farmer, 96, Holland
Road, Brixton, S.W. 'trade supplied by E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS?
Containing instmetions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLE
AT HOME/
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present,
may be obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, price
300 for Sixpence, post free, or 500 for Ninepence,
post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circle
are not numerous. ^ *
The (S^piritaafisf says:—Contention about Spiritual¬
ism and mediums should be avoided, and action sub¬
stituted. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far
more in its facts than in clamouring about them ; the
facts, therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale
dissemination of printed information how to form
circles in the homes of private families. A proportion
of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their
own homes will at once irrevocably recognise as im¬
postors or disreputable unsafe guides, those news¬
papers and individuals who state authoritatively that
the facts are not true. If every Spiritualist makes it
binding upon himself to ‘ drop about ” or distribute
five hundred of the leaflets, containing instructions how
to form spirit irdies at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums ■will spring tip in private families, as to
rapidly increase the knowledge of truths calculated tc
benefit in the highest degree this materialistic, cop
sequently irreligious age.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 2, 1880,
Accidental Indigestion
BEFORE AND AFTER THE
CHRISTMAS PUDDING-,
USE
END'S FRUIT SALT
Eyery Travelling Trunk and Household in the "World
ought to contain a bottle of
END’S FRUIT SALT,
Prepared from Sound Ripe Fruit, as a Health¬
giving, Cooling, Sparkling, and Invigorating Beverage
for any Season.
It is the best Preventitive and Cure for Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions, Impure Blood,
Fevers, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverish¬
ness, Mental depression, Want of Appetite, Sourness,
of Stpmach, Constipation, Vomiting, Thirst, &c.,
and to remove the effects of Errors in Eating and
Drinking.
Tj^NO’S FRUIT SALT.—From fclie
JLJ Rev. Da. Hurst, Vicar of Collerly:—“I have
used your Fruit Salt for many years, and have verified
your statements. The thanks of the public are due to
you for your unceasing efforts to relieve suffering
Humanity. Long may you live to be a blessing to the
world.”
QTIMULANTS & INSUFFICIENT
kj AMOUNT of EXERCISE frequently DE¬
RANGE the LIVER. ENO’S FRUIT SALT is
peculiarly adapted for any constitutional weakness of
the liver. A WORLD of WOES is AVOIDED by
those who KEEP and USE ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—
“ All our customers for ENO’S FRUIT SALT would
not be without it upon any consideration, they having
received so much benefit from it.”—Wood Brothers,
Chemists, Jersey, 1878.
The Physical Basis of Life—Good Food.
How to enjoy good food, that would otherwise cause
bilious headache disordered stomach, poisoned blood,
6c., &c., use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
A NATURAL APERIENT.—
END’S FRUIT SALT, when taken with water,
acts as a natural aperient, its simple, but natural
action, removes all impurities; thus preserving and
restoring health. If its great value in keeping the
body in health were universally known, no family
would be without it.
Fagged, weary and worn
OUT!! 1 Any one whose duties require them
to undergo mental or unnatural excitement or strain—
ENO’S FRUIT SALT is the best known remedy. It
acts like a charm. It allays Nervous Excitement, De¬
pression, and the injurious effects of stimulants and
too rich food. Its power in aiding digestion is most
striking. It also restores the Nervous System to its
proper condition (by natural means). Use ENO’S
FRUIT SALT. You cannot overstate its great value
in keeping the blood pure and free from disease.
END’S FRUIT SALT.—“ 14, Rue
de !*• ffaix, Paris.—A Gentleman called in
yesterday. Rte is a constant sufferer from chronic
dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of mineral waters.
I recommended him to give your Salt a trial, which he
did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried
your Salt, and for the future shall never be without it
m the house.”—M. Beral.
END’S FRUIT SALT.— “Aftersuf¬
fering for nearly two and a half years from se¬
vere headache and disordered stomach, and after try¬
ing almost everything and spending much money
without finding any benefit, I was recommended by a
friend to try END’S FRUIT SALT, and before I had
finished one bottle I found it doing me a great deal of
good, and now I am restored to my usual health; and
others I know that have tried it have not enjoyed such
good health for years.—Yours most truly, Robert
Humphreys, Post Office, Barrasford.”
Success in life.”—a new in¬
vention is brought before the public and com¬
mands success. A score of abominable imitations are
immediately introduced by the unscrupulous, who, in
copying the original closely enough to deceive the
public, and yet not so exactly as to infringe upon
legal rights, exercise an ingenuity that, employed in
an original channel, could not fail to secure reputa¬
tion and profit.—Adams.
CAUTION.—Examine each bottle and tee the capsule it
marked "ENO’S FEU IT SALT.” Without, you have
been imposed on by a worthless imitation. Sold by dll
Chemists. Price 2t. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO’S
PATENT, at ENO’S FRUIT SALT
WORKS, Hatcbam, London, S.E.
Price Five Shillings. Crown 8vo, richly gilt,
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS.
RY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical anc
Prose Writings, Grave and Gay.
Strongly recommended by reviews in The Morning
Post, O-raphic, Court Journal and some twenty or thirt)
othet standard journals,
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence
Claxton and the Author.
Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song ol
the Newspaper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawn¬
broker.—4. The Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man
—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji al Shaca-
bac was Ihotographed (a letter from Hadji al Shaca-
bac a gentleman who visited London on business
connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben .Buckram, Chief ot the College of Howling Der¬
vishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-
Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay oi
the Market Gardener.—11. Fast falls the Eventide.”
12. Our Raven.—13. Materialistic Religion.—14: The
Lay of the Photographer.—15. How to Double the
Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of the
Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-bewegung.—18. ‘‘Poor
Old Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of
the Mace-Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.
—23. .“ Under the Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony
Wobblejaw.
. 25. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Re¬
ception at Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28.
Tony’s Lament.—29 The July Bug.—30. The Con¬
verted Carman.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the
book in a review nearly a column long, says.—‘ ‘Comie
literature which honestly deserves the epithet seems
to be rapidly becoming a thing of the past; conse¬
quently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison, exhibits a
genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent laugh. Not
that his muse restricts herself only to such lighter
utterances; on the contrary, some of his poems touch
on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. ... The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of White¬
chapel is quite one of the funniest things that has
been published for years. . . . The book contains
quite enough to ensure it a welcome from which its
tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads—“ No one can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes
are pitched in “ something like the same key as The
Bon Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an
appreciably successful result.”. .
From The Court Journal.
" All are of marked ability. ... Occasionally
we find verse of great beauty, showing that the author
possesses the pure poetic gift.” .
From The Graphic.
“Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced
humour should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and
Prose Imaginings. Written, printed, published and
reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great Russell-
street. Both the verses and the short essays are
really funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein
of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun. The
Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital if rather
severe, and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers •, but one
of the most laughable bits is the Turk’s account of
how he went to be photographed.”
ESTABLISHED 1851.
B IRK BECK BANK.—
Southampton Buildings, Chancery Laue.
Current Accounts opened according to the usual
practice of other Bankers, and interest allowed on the
minimum monthly balances when not drawn below
£25. No Commission charged for keeping accounts.
The Bank also receives money on Deposit at Three
per cent. Interest, repayable upon demand.
The Bank undertakes for its Customers, free of
charge, the custody of Deeds, Writings, and other
Securities and Valuables ; the collection of Bills of
Exchange, Dividends, and Coupons; and the purchase
and sale of Stocks and Shares.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
31st Mareh, 1880.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY’S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE
FOR TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH, with
immediate Possession and no Rent- to pay. Apply at
the Office of the BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF
LAND FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH
with immediate possession, either for Building or
Gardening purposes. Apply at the Office of the
BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY.
A Pamphlet, with full particulars, on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.  
Lunacy law reform
ASSOCIATION, 64, Bemers-street, and 79,
Chancery Lane, London, W C. Attendance at the
last address daily from 2 30 to 4 pm. Saturdays 1 to 2.
Louisa Lowe and S. T. Blackwell, Esq., Barrister-an-
Law, Hon. Seed. ■ "
HTHE TRAPPED MEDIUM;
A OR THE TWO CLEVER SCEPTICS. A
pamphlet by Christian Reimers—This brochure con¬
tains a series of illustrations, setting forth the exciting
adventures of Professor Molecule, F.R.S., X.Y Z.,
B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster, in
their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an
excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men. A review of it in. The Spiritualist newspaper
says that the pamphlet displays real genius. Price 6d,
post free 6$d. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 33. Museum-street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and
Other Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
33, Museum Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery street
Boston, U.S.
“As a dispassionate scientific man he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-coneeived ideas,
and ttfe result of his examination has been to identify
his opinions with those of Messrs. Varley, Crooks and
Wallace, in favour not only of the absolute reality of
the phenomena, but also of the genuineness of the com¬
munications alleged to be given by the spirits of the de¬
parted. Into the vexed question of a priori objections
to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall notnow enter. We
will only say that his descriptions of facts are couched
in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that he ap¬
pears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of
the book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pre¬
tension) is rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C. t
Price 6d.; post free 7§d. ; cloth.
• H'qcj » WTCJ
TiHE PROBABLE EFFECTS OF
A SPIRITUALISM UPON- . THE ‘ SOCIAL,
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF
SOCIETY. Two Essays by Anna Blackwell and Mr.
G. F. Green..
These Essays won the First and Second ,Gold
Medals of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33,
Museum-street, London, W.C.
A/TIND AND MATTER. A Spiritual
JLiJL Paper, published weekly in Philadelphia, Penns.
U.S.A. A Special, Independent, and Liberal Spiritual
Journal. Publication Office, 713, Sansom-street: J.
M. Roberts, Publisher and Editor. Annual subscrip¬
tion to residents, in any part of Great Britain, m
advance Twelve Shillings. (Send International Postal
Order.) Sample copies free.
CONTENTS.
The Visions of Mr. Hockley’s Sensitives  1
Evenings with the In-dwellers of the World of
Spirits. By Frederick Hockley     2
An Atmospheric Spirit     2
Another Doppel-Ganger   4
Captain Anderson’s Relation—An Elementary
Spirit—The Bottle Imp     4
Another Apparition Story from Ireland   5
Correspondence:—Definitions of Religion    5
AllenKardec    5
Spiritualism in Cape Town ...... 6
Remarkable Spirit Manifestations. By Major
General J. W. N. Maclean .......C......  6
Mesmerism and Statuvolence. By Henry G. At¬
kinson, F. G. S        7
A Spontaneous Apparition   ...v    8
Spiritualism in Hamburgh. By Christian Reimers 8
Poetry :—One Summer Day .;   9
A Summer Song      10
The Swedenborg Society  I,     10
Scotch Ghosts..       11
Printed for the Proprietor by Arliss Andrews, at
the Museum Printing Works, 31, Museum-street,
Bloomsbury, London, W.C., and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
