Rsaismsb is a nhwspaperj
®J-e toit| Sgmtualism in §nat §ntaitt.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor (G. Parisi,Via Della Maltonaia. ROME:
Signor Bocca, Librario, Via del Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE : 84, Russell-street-South, SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly and Co. NEWJYORK :
51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “ Banner of Light ” Oifice, 9, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. SAN FRAN¬
CISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA : 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON : No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 350.—(Vol. XIV.—No. 19.) LONDON : FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Hoaxes by Spirits  217'
A Biographical Sketch of Mr. Epes Sargent   217
Spirit Messages. By E. Louisa S. Thompson Nosworthy 219
The Recent Fire at The Spiritualist Printing Office.. .. 220
Clairvoyance in Newcastle     220
Clairvoyance and Spirit Identity 221
Poetry—Chinese Poetry ..  222
Curious Manifestations. By Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P. 222
Theories Concerning Spirits. By Henry G. Atkinson,
• F .G. S., Author of ‘ ‘ Letters to Miss Martineau ” .. 222
Matter, Force, and Thought 223
Axioms of the Will .. .. .. ., ..   225
Alleged Extraordinary Manifestations    .. 226
Cutting Down the Publie Rights 226
Paragraphs—Obituary, 219; The Late Fire 222
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER :
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics
of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PEICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated
Sjpiritualists in all the English-speaking countries throughout
the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the
Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading
and more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in
the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among
those who 11 ave published their names in connection with their
communications in its columns are Mr. C. F.Varley, C.E., F R.S.;
Mr. WUliam Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Jon mal
of Science ’’(who admits the reality of the phenomena, but has,
up to the present time, expressed no decided opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, President of the Biological Sec¬
tion of the British Association for the Advancement of Science
(1876); Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the
Right Hon. the Countess of Caithness ; His Imperial Highness
Nicholas of Russi i (Duke of Leuchtenberg) ; Mr. H. G. Atkin¬
son, F.G.S. ; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen
(formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples); Baron
Dirckinck-Holmfeid (Holstein); Mr. Gerald Massey; Le Comte
de Bullet; the Hon. J. L. O'Sullivan, formerly American
Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P. ,
Parkas, F.G.S. ; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psycholo¬
gical Society of Great Britain ; Mr. Alexander Calder, Presi¬
dent of the British National Association of Spiritualists; the
Rev. J. Tyerman (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.);
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George
Wyld; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksa-
kof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order
of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay
(Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative A" atomy at
Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore ; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B,
(India); Mrs. Honeywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr,
Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George Stock, B.A. (Oxon);
Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian
'Reimers ; Mr. William White (author of the “ Life of Sweden¬
borg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D. ; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S-A,;
Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S. ; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M. ; Mr. C. Con¬
stant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; M1'. William Oxley:
Miss Kislingbury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers ;
Mr. J. N. T. Mathese ; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr.
W. Lindsay Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other
ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom,
10s. lOd.; in the United States and Australia, 18s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places :—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris : Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig : 2,_ Lindenstrasse. Florence : Signor G. Parisi,
Via Della Maltonia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples I British Re ’.ding Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russel-street. Shanghai : Messrs. Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal
Office. Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Keamey-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington : No. 1010, Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Oifice, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.Q.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
OFFICE HOURS.
The Offices of the Association are open between the hours
of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except Sat¬
urday., when they are open between the hours of 2 p.m. and
6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR MAY.
Friday, 2nd, and each succeeding Friday.—Experi¬
mental Research Committee at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 5th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at
8 p.m. “ Object Lessons in Spiritu¬
alism, and their Importance.” By
Mrs. Andrews.
Tuesday, 13f7i.—Soirde Committee at 6 p.m.
„ „ House and Offices Committee at 5.30
p.m.
,, „ Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
,, ,, Council Meeting at a.30 p.m.
Monday, \2th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at
8 p.m. “Recent Researches in Spirit¬
ism.” By Desmond, G. Fitzgerald,
M. S. Tel.
Friday, 23rd.—Library Committee Mt 5.30.
• „ ,, <S ance Committee at 6 p.m.
Tuesday, —Annual General Meeting of Mem¬
bers at 6.30 p.m.
C. A. BURKE, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akbrman Roab, Beixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study o‘
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with
well known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books
on Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c.,
apply to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec,
Cloth, small 8vo., price 3s.
OTHER-WORLD ORDER:
Suggestions and Conclusions thereon.
By WILLIAM WHITE.
Mr. White’s contention is that there is place and use in the
divine economy for all varieties of men and women ; and
that there is not any one, however perverse or insignificant,
Who is not created for some function in universal humanity.
As to the question of everlasting punishment, Mr. Wh ite
maintains an original position. If asked whether he believes
in the everlasting punishment of sinners, he answers. Yes; but
if asked whetherhe believes ineverlasting sinners, he answers,
No. All the confusion, perplexity, and anguish which exist
as to the future life arise from the constant assumption that
the everlasting punishment of sin is identical with the ever¬
lasting existence of sinners. Sin or transgression has been,
is, and ever will be eternally punished; torment and misery
are everlastingly inseparable from wrong-doing; and pre¬
cisely because inseparable, the wrong-doer must, sooner cr
later, cease from wrong-doing. In short, the everlasting
punishment of sin is sure warrant for the impossibility of
everlasting sinners.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Price Is. Post free 13 stamps,
SPIRITUAL SANITY: A REPLY TO Dr.
O Forbes Winslow’s “ Spiritualistic Madness,” and. a
Brief Outline.of the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiri¬
tualism. By S. E. Gay.
E. W. Allen, II, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
"DRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
JJ tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr.
Elmer, St. James’'street; and Mr. Boughton, St.George’s-rd.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the
city, by an English brother. The apartments can only ac¬
commodate four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3
per week each; or, for two persons, £2 10s. per week, if two
occupy one room. Address, S.T., care of M. A. Mallett, 3,
Rue de la Cossonerie, Paris.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent,
that move and direct the material mechanism of man. Com¬
munications as to alleged phenomena are invited by the
Committee of Inquiry who hold investigation sittings with¬
out subscribing to or recognising any particular theory or
belief.
All particulars may be obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. ULifSTCiS, Honorary Secretary,
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1868). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 86th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand.
Price 7s. 6d. Trubnbb & Co. London.
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER. ,
THE “ MODEL,r PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can asily be worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation,
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
0. J. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms i—3, Ludgate Circus Building15, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “ HOW-TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., &c,
post free, seven stamps.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions
of events and the weather for every month, &o., &o., with a
large hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephnneris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lanca¬
shire quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks,- the
British armaments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by
which any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth
gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Annali dello spiritismo in
ITALIA—Rivista Psioologioa di Niceforo Filatete.
Published on the 16th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly
Journal devoted to the investigation of the unexplained
phenomena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aesaeof,
and contributed to by several German and foreign men of
science. Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze.
London: The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
EIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 and 80, Southampton.buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced and Interest allowed on'the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts.
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hour? from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 till 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9- p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application;
FRANCIS RAVEN3CR0FT, Manager.
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Pbebidsnt.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington,
S.W.
Vice-Pexsideitts.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road,
Brixton, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 62, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-
buildings, E.C,
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13,
Alexandra-road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumborland-placp, Hyde-park,
W.
Cora cxi.
Adshead, W, P., Derby House, Belper.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Bonwick, J., F.R.G.S.. Yale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “ Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road,
Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe,N. Fabyan, 6, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmunds, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 69, Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Akerman-road, Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road, New Southgate, N.
Green, G. F., Hale Cottage, Shooter’s-hill, Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square,
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lampart-hall, Northampton.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool..
Maltby, Mrs., 61, Gower street, W.C.
March, R. A., Heaton Villas, 71, Greenwood road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W„ 71, Richmond road, Dalslon.
Morse, J. J., Elm Thee terrace, Uttoxeter road.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish road, Blundel Sands, near
Liverpool.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett road, Dalston, E.
Pearson, O., 16, Harpur street, Bloomsbury. W.C.
Pickersgill, W.C., 3, Blandford square, N.W.
Reimers, Christian, 47, Momington road. Regent’s park.
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8, Museum Villas, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredweb, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton street, Pimlico, S.W.
Turner, J. P., Avenue road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolf crescent, Maida vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Ann street, Cavendish
square, W, .
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq., 1,
Hereford square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, MissH., 1, The Elms, St. John’sroad, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Hoxobaey Teeasueeb.
Alex. Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford square. South Kensington,
S.W.*
AxmiToss.
J. W. Gray, Esq. G. H. Potts, Esq. Morell Theobold, Esq.
Secbetabt.
Miss Burke, 38, Great Russell street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
Hojtoeaev ob Coebespondixo Membebs.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburgb, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdje,
Capoussou, Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, Preside-ot of the Spiritual Society at
Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach,
Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Gueldenstubb, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde deTorres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexander Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Piospect, 6, St. Petersburgh.
The Baron von Dirchhick-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr ConstantinDelhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey,
• U.S.A.
Mrs. CoraL. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Bou1ogne-sur-
Mer.
Boboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, U.8.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude, Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton,
Melbourne.
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg
University, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 81,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Komerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W.H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street, South Melbourne,
Victoria, Austro ia.
M. Leymarie, 6, Reu Neuve, des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy,
1, Paris,
Epes Sergent, Esq., Box 2,986, Boston, U.S.A.
M.T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Bace-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
IE, Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New
Xork, U.B.A.
THE .SPIRITUALIST.
May 9, 1879.
M. LeonFavre, Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Phila¬
delphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2,210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
J. H. Gladstones, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de
I’Europe, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 286, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck,
Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue de Palais, 137, Scbaerbeck, Lex-
Bruxelles.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cavuga Co., New York,
U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel del’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-
square, London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste,
Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waldron Edge, Duppas-bill,
Croydon.
IsaacB. Rich. Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eporjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Yasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chiaje,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr, J. H., Strati), Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near
Vienna.
M. Coohet, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Berks T. Huchinson, Esq., 2. New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavillion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H, J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 43rd-street, New York.
T. Blynton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. CharlesFitz,
121, Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frxces,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pestb. Secretary, M.
Anton Prochaszka, Josefstaadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse,
23, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquiries into Spiritualism. Hon.
Secretary, T. Blynton, Esq., 63, Sigdon-road, Dalston-
lane, Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.—Mr. A. J. Smart, 22,
Moira-place—Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola Cerventes, 34, 28, Madrid.
President—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sooiedad Espirita Central de la Republica Maxicana. Presi¬
dent—Senor Refugio T Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo,
Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Columbia, South America.
President—Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading room and library, with a secre¬
tary in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries.
Seances can be attended by recommendation from a member.
For terms, &c., apply to the Secretary.
Price 6s. 8d.
Inspirational Poetry.
“ POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
With a Preface describing the spiritual state of trance
during which some of the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Part I.
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing—II. The Song of Truth
—HI. The Embarkation—IV. Kepler’s Vision—V. Love
and Latin—VI. The Song of the North—VII. The Burial of
Webster—VIII. The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda—IX. The
Meeting of Sigurd and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child—XI. Reconciliation—XII. Hope for
the Sorrowing—XIII. Compensation—XIV. The Eagle of
Freedon—XV. Mistress Glenare—XVI. Little Johnny—XVII.
“ Birdie’s Spirit Song”—XVIH. My Spirit Home—XIX
“ I still Live”—XX. Life—XXI. Love—XXII. “ For a’ that”
—XXIII. Words o’ Cheer—XXIV. Resurrexi—XXV. The
prophecy of Vala—XXVI. The Kingdom—XXVII. The Cradle
or Coffin—XXVIII. The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The
Mysteries of Godliness—XXX. Farewell to Earth.
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price
6s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C., Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT; the oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac
B. Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor ; aided by
a large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department
report of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical, and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit message department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c. &c. Terms of subscription, in ad¬
vance, 16s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, London, W.C.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 6. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
6, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON
MDLLE. HUET,. good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 till 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honore,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses in
London or the provinces. Address, 92, Caroline St., Notting¬
ham.
Tl/riSS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvwant,
JjlL 45, Jubilee-street, Commercial-road, Loudon, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight o’clock.
Voluntary contributions. Private seances attended. Appli¬
cation by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and
Healing. Medical advice to ladies and children.
Terms modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of
business—Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Satur¬
days, from 1 p m. to 6 p.m. 90; Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, W.C.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Fox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Frank¬
lin, gives seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Brunswick-
square, from 2 to 6, every day except Sunday, and every
evening from 8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engage¬
ments can be made by letter sent to the above address.
Characters faithfully deline.
ATED from Handwriting, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath.. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients, and may be consulted daily
from 2 tiU 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-
hill, Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the
science of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
SAMUEL H. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
MISS M. A. HOUGHTON, MEDICAL
CLAIRVOYANTB and HEALING MEDIUM.
Examinations at a distance by lock of hair; sex and age re¬
quired. Paralysis, Sciatica, and Rheumatism, Specialities.
At home from 12 till 6 p.m. Patients treated at their homes
when desired. 99, Park-street, Grosvenor-square,London, W.
EEVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’Studes psycho-
logiques, fond6 par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Societe
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE COM¬
PARED WITH MODERN SPITITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It
shows (we think successfully) that every form of medium-
ship, now so familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical
records of identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The
two bound in one, Is.—These books,'consisting of messages
given by writing medinmship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, ana their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrow¬
ing parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
TT^OLKESTONE.—Comfortable Lodgings on
JD moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Micbael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
A SELECT CIRCLE, holding Stances for
XX. physical manifestations once a week, requires a few
more members— especially ladies. For particulars, apply to
B. S. T., care of Miss Burke, 38, Great Bussell-street, W.O.
jl nf uf il|^ att^t nf ^ptijitualtsni.
No. 350.—VotujviE Fourteen; Number ^i]hetee]h.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 9th, 1879.
HOAXES BY SPIRITS. j j
In another column will be found an interesting article by in
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, proving the care investigators j)j
should take in order not to be misled by the tricks of spirits, j (i
Mr. Wedgwood knotted and sealed the ends of a piece of j|j
tape, in order that the spirits might, if they so pleased, put a !) [
true knot upon the endless band thus formed, as they did in j (|
Professor Zollner’s library at Leipzig, and thus redemon- |) j
strate the fact of the occasional passage of matter through (
matter. j)
The medium had never been in Mr. Wedgwood’s house j\
before, and had never previously seen the tape and broad seal j)
upon it, nor did he know before his arrival that any experi- j (
ment of the kind was to be tried. He reached the house half !
an hour after time, and two minutes later was seated at a n
dark stance, with his hands held by responsible witnesses on I)
both sides of him. In the course of the sitting Mr. Wedg- |(
wood called the attention of the spirits to the tape band, and j \
a few minutes afterwards they handed it to him, with two I j
true knots upon; it, whereat he and all present were corre- |(
spondingly delighted, i)
But at the close of the sitting, when there was time for i j (
more critical examination, it was found that to tie the knots i)
they had cut off Mr. Wedgwood’s original knot and seal, had | (
afterwards tied up the two ends again, and put on a fresh !)
final knot and seal. The seal was like the original, but \\
blurred, as if taken from an impression in bread, and the i)
ends of the tape beyond the seal had been neatly cut close to | (
the edges of the wax, as if by a pair of scissors. The marvel | j
is that all this was done noiselessly and in a few moments in i (
the dark, with no flame to melt the wax; the whole opera- | j
tion was one which a man could have done only by the aid of j (
a light, scissors, a seal, a flame to melt the wax, and a pair of j j
free hands. The medium, on his way home, did not speak in j (
the mildest terms of the spirits who played these pranks, and I
said that they had recently torn up some of his account j
books by way of amusement. He felt thankful that his hands | <
had been held, and conversation kept up with him, all through | <
.the stance. ;<
The law is, “ The lower the spirits the greater is their j <
direct control over common matter,” but it does not neces- | <
sarily follow that the majority of the spirits who produce the i(
physical phenomena are either bad or malicious. The en- h
thusiasts who treat them as angels, and assert that they never |(
trick, unintentionally encourage tricks among spirits as much ; (
as they do imposture among sham mediums. All who have i |
had strong physical manifestations in their own homes for j,
years, are aware that the spirits sometimes play all kinds of 11
annoying pranks. This is why we wanted to obtain an j
account, signed by everybody present, of the first part of a '|j
celebrated seance at Amsterdam some time back, to ascertain 11
whether the spirits were there in force that evening, and |
whether the prejudices of some of the investigators were so ji
strong as to prevent their attesting with their more dis- jj
passionate colleagues the facts they witnessed. The suggested j
unanimously signed report never reached England.
At the second part of the dark stance at Mr. Wedgwood’s !
house last week, a faint streak of light from the window fell
upon the wall behind the medium, who sat a little on one
side of the streak. While the medium’s hands were held, a
long bare arm was seen carrying the musical box about in
the air with great velocity ; the other end of the arm was
inclined in the direction of the medium, so probably his body
was the fulcrum on which the weight of the floating box fell.
Hitherto no clue had been obtained as to the position of the
fulcrum in manifestations of this kind. While the hands of i
mediums are held, the materialised hands and arms often |
move heavy objects behind them. It would seem as if these ||
hands and arms can be projected by the spirits either from
the chest or back of the medium, at will. The owners of the
materialised hands can see perfectly in the dark.
A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF MR. EPES SARGENT.
During the last thirty years various brief newspaper
memoirs of Mr. Sargent have appeared in America, and from
these, though they make no mention of his connection with
Spiritualism, the following biographical account is partly
compiled.
Mr. Epes Sargent, whose name has long been in the list
of our correspondents, is a native of Gloucester, a picturesque
maritime town, twenty-eight miles from Boston, TT.S.A.
While he was yet a child his family moved to Boston, and at
nine years of age he entered the Public Latin School, where,
in the study of Latin and Greek, he stayed five years, with
the exception of six months which he passed in making a
visit with his father to Denmark and Russia. At St. Peters¬
burg he attracted the attention of Baron Steighitz, the
opulent banker, who urgently offered to educate him with his
son, the present Baron, and then to take him in to his counting-
room. This advantageous offer young Sargent declined, as
his tastes ran in the direction of literature and philosophy;
Returning to * merica, he resumed his place at the Latin
School, and soon afterwards was admitted a student of Harvard
College. He did not, however, remain there till graduation,
but accepted a situation as assistant in the editorial depart¬
ment of The Advertiser, a Boston daily paper. Subsequently
his services were transferred to the Daily Atlas, where he had
opportunities of passing a part of the year at Washington,
during the sessions of Congress, as political correspondent.
Here he was admitted to the familiar personal acquaintance of
Webster, Clay, Calhoun, Preston, Chief-justice Marshall, and
other eminent public men. With Mr. Clay, senator from
Kentucky, and candidate for the Presidency, his relations
were especially intimate, and he wrote a life of him, which
was largely circulated, and edited with additions by Mr.
Sargent’s early friend, Horace Greeley, who also lived to be
a candidate for the Presidency. Journalist and man of letters,
Mr. Sargent seemed now to have chosen his career. He was
for some years a resident of New York, where he edited The
Mirror, The New World, and other publications quite flourishing
in their day. He also wrote and edited several works for the
Messrs. Harper, which had good success, and led to very
pleasant relations with that house. He was on friendly or
intimate personal terms with Poe, Bryant, Halleck, Wash¬
ington Irving, N. P. Willis, Longfellow (who often visited
him at New York), and also with Charles Dickens during the
latter’s sojourn there.
Both Poe and Willis have something to say of Mr. Sargent’s
appearance at this time. Poe speaks of him as “ somewhat
short of stature and of gentlemanly address,” and says of his
sea poems, “ They evince a fine fancy, with a keen appreciation
of the beautiful in natural scenery.” Willis writes, “ I may
say of him as Falstaff said of Prince Hal, ‘ His face is a face
royal; God may finish it when He will, it is not a hair amiss
yet.’ ”
Mr. Sargent wrote four plays, which were successfully
represented—The Genoese, in which Josephine Clifton and
afterwards Charlotte Cushman and her sister appeared;
Velasco, founded on legends of the Cid, which was brought
out by Miss Ellen Tree (afterwards Mrs. Charles Kean) in
America, and subsequently by Mrs. Mowatt and Mr. Daven¬
port in London and Edinburgh, and in regard to which
Serjeant Talfourd, author of Ion, wrote a complimentary
letter; Change makes Change, a comedy, brought out by
Burton, a favourite comedian; and The Priestess, produced in
Boston with considerable success,
218
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 9, 1879.
Velasco was the only one of these plays that was published,
and the edition of that being burnt up in one of the great
fires that befell the Messrs. Harper, the author refused to
have it reprinted. He saw that his plays were merely tentative
productions, and his predominant tastes soon pointed in other
though less popular directions. He had had his dramatic
frolic, and was content. “ To-morrow to fresh woods and
pastures new.”
Some of his early poetical ventures were published in
The Collegian and The Harbinger, in company with his now
famous colleague, Oliver "Wendell Holmes. About 1840,
Sargent’s first volume of poems appeared, under the title of
Shells and Seaweed—written, many of them, on a voyage to
Cuba in a sailing vessel. His Life on the Ocean Wave, set to
music by Henry Russell, became instantly popular as a song
in America, while in England, as it was not copyrighted, it
was issued by some half-dozen music publishers, and is still
one of the “live songs.”
The late Edmund Sears, himself a poet, and author of
Foregleams of Immortality, called attention in the Unitarian
Re view to the following passage, Homeric in its movement,
as remarkable for its beauty. It is from one of Sargent’s
poems, and is descriptive of the coming on of night in sum¬
mer in Gloucester harbour:—
“ But when the moon shone crescent in the west,
And the faint outline of the part obscured,
Threadlike, curved visible from horn to horn,
And Jupiter, supreme among the orbs.
And Mars with rutilating beam came forth,
And the great concave opened like a flower.
Unfolding firmaments and galaxies,
Sparkling with separate stars, or snowy white
With undistinguishable suns beyond,—
They paused, and rested on their oars again.
And looked around—in adoration looked—
For, gazing on the inconceivable,
They felt God is, though inconceivable.”
In 1852 the great Massachusetts senator, Daniel Webster,
celebrated for his fine personal appearance, and with whom
Mr. Sargent had been on intimate terms in Washington, died,
and the poet was called on for the words of a dirge to be
sung at a memorial celebration in Quincy. He wrote the
following:—
“ Night of the tomb! he has entered thy portal;
Silence of death! he is wrapped in thy shade;
All of the gifted and great that was mortal,
In the earth—where the ocean-mist weepeth—is laid.
“ Lips, whence the voice that held senates proceeded;
Form, lending argument; aspect august;
Brow, like the arch that a nation’s weight needed;
Eyes, wells unfathomed of thought—all are dust.
“ Night of the tomb! through thy darkness is shining
A light, since the Star in the East, never dim ;
No joy’s exultation, no sorrow’s repining,
Could hide it in life or life’s ending from him.
“ Silence of death! there were voices from heaven
That pierced to the quick ear of faith through thy gloom;
The rod and the staff that he asked for were given,
And he followed the Saviour’s own track to the tomb.
n Beyond it, above, in an atmosphere finer,
Lo! infinite ranges of being to fill!
In that land of the spirit, that region diviner.
He liveth, he loveth, he laboureth still.”
A matrimonial alliance, and a very happy one, drew Mr.
Epes Sargent from New York back to Boston, where he has
ever since resided. He edited the Boston Daily Transcript
several years, until failing health warned him to give up the
arduous occupation; for newspaper editing was much harder
work then than now. His literary activity was not checked,
however. He edited the Modern Standard Drama. He put
forth the Standard Speaker, with three supplementary books
of elocutionary selections and translations, the success of
which was very marked. These were followed by three
series of reading-books, a book of original dialogues, and a
much-praised work on etymology, forming twenty-two
volumes in all. They are still largely in use in American
schools.
During the civil war he appeared for the first time as a
public speaker, and made some spirited speeches, which, as
published, were widely copied, and served a patriotic purpose.
They drew forth letters of warm congratulation from Charles
Sumner, one of the friends of his boyhood. Mr. Sargent
i)| also wrote a popular novel, entitled Peculiar, published by
|(j Carleton, New York, and of which sixteen thousand copies
l)| were sold, though it was an eight shilling volume. An
I] edition in three volmes was published in London by Hurst
and Blackett, under the auspices of Mr. "William Howitt.
In 1868, having suffered from a bronchial affection, Mr.
Sargent was advised by his physician to pass the winter in
the south of France; and he established himself at Cannes,
j on the Mediterranean. During his brief stay in England he
| made the personal acquaintance of Mr. W. M. Wilkinson,
|j! Mr. Thomas Shorter, Lady Caithness, Mr. William White,
|< Dr. Ashburner, and other prominent Spiritualists. He also
I1' | renewed his acquaintance with Mr. Benjamin Coleman and
Mr. D. D. Home, the distinguished medium. Professor
| Francis W. Newman, author of many much esteemed works,
| who had long been his correspondent, was also now personally
sought out and greeted. Mr. Sargent had received a letter
W[ from Charles Dickens, thanking him for his novel, and he
m was preparing to call and renew his acquaintance with him,
1(1 when news came of the great novelist’s death.
|) j To Spiritualists Mr. Sargent’s connection with the modern
i (I Spiritual movement will be perhaps of more interest than his
! /! literary career. His attention was drawn to Mesmerism about
m the year 1837, when he was in his twenty-fourth year. He
i) i had witnessed in Boston the experiments of Dr. Collyer, a
K j young Englishman, the same who lately, in his old age, testi-
|}| fied in London to the genuineness of the phenomena through
|j| Slade. Mr. Sargent saw much in Collyer’s exhibition to
j)j excite his attention and curiosity. Soon afterwards, in New
Hi York, he had opportunities of studying the subject in his own
I)| way. Dr. Channing, a well-known physician, introduced
Hi him to a sensitive, the phenomena in whose presence he studied
j|j for two years under circumstances that precluded the possi-
(j bility of deception. By the exercise of his own volition he
||| satisfied himself of the mesmerizer’s power over his subject.
| \ | Of clairvoyance, thought reading, insensibility to pain through
||i Mesmerism, he also became fully convinced. When the
I! | phenomena at Hydesville broke out in 1847 he was editing
| the Boston Transcript, and through its columns did much to
| direct public attention to the subject.
The mental phenomena he was fully prepared to admit, as
| they harmonized entirely with his mesmeric experience ; but
} it was only after a long course of investigation that he accepted
j) I the physical marvels. The Cartesian notion that spirit can
! i have no power over matter—that it is diametrically antagon-
IH istic—perhaps had some part in his prejudices. But the stress
f (j of facts was eventually too much for his dpriori theories. He
I;i yielded after five years of study and experiment, having
! (I repeatedly proved, in his own home, under the most stringent
i) j conditions, the actual occurrence of the leading phenomena.
Having thus become finally and for ever convinced of the
jjj basic truth of Spiritualism, he omitted no opportunity of
jjl passing on the truth-torch toothers. In 1867 he published
;); a succinct history of Modern Spiritualism under the title of
i (| Blanchette; or, The Despair of Science, a title which might have
| answered well enough for a pamphlet, but which hardly does
i (i justice to a work so earnest and comprehensive as this really
!) | is. In spite of its title, however, it has passed through four
](] editions, and is still in demand. The Rev. Austin Phelps,
!) | D.D., refers to it as “ written by the most scholarly of the
: (; American defenders of Spiritualism.” Mr. Wm. Crookes
i) \ wrote of it in 1874, “ Blanchette was the first book I read on
! (I Spiritualism, and it still remains, in my opinion, the best work
|) j to place in the hands of the unitiated.”
! | In 1875, Mr. Epes Sargent put forth The Proof Palpable of
\ /1 Immortality, a volume of 238 well-filled pages, devoted chiefly
j (j to the materialization phenomena, but also to the discussion
m of moral and religious questions pertaining to Spiritualism.
H i In 1876 he wrote a reply to Professor Tyndall’s severe attack
11 i on Spiritualism, a reply which attracted great attention in
! (i America, and was hailed as “ the right word at the right
m time.” He also wrote (1877) the article on Spiritualism for
m Appleton’s new Encyclopaedia.
jjj These works give but an imperfect idea of Mr. Sargent’s
m activity in the cause of Spiritualism. By his contributions,
j)j some under his own name, but most of them anonymous, in
j|i various journals, English and American, and by a very
j(| extensive correspondence, he has, as Mr. Stainton-Moses says
of him, been “indefatigable in his attempts to convince an
May 9, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
119
unwilling world that there is in and around us something
more than materialists would have us to believe.”
For the last ten years Mr. Sargent has been in a precarious
state of health, but has found time for much hard literary
work. He is now (1879) engaged on a Cyclopcedia of English
and American Poetryiov the great New York house of the
Messrs. Harper. It is to be a large volume of a thousand
pages in double columns, elegantly illustrated, and containing
much critical and biographical matter. The compiler’s
trained and experienced taste in poetry and art justifies us in
expecting a work of rare excellence and attractiveness.
SPIRIT MESSAGES.
BY E. LOUISA S. THOMPSON NOSWOBTHY.
A discourse, through the organism of Mrs. Cora L. Y.
Richmond, has recently reached me, purporting to come from
the spirit of Q-eorge Thompson, and to be a narrative of some
of his experiences in spirit-life. I extract the following
passages, and ask the reader to compare them with another
message received from the same spirit about ten days after
his release from the flesh.
In the discourse through Mrs. Richmond’s mediumship
these passages occur:—
“ In the majority of cases, I am told, there is not such
sudden and absolute reaction as in my own case. Depressed
from long illness, feeling the burden of years, I was caught
up into sudden youth and sudden rapture—to the full vigour
of manhood. Without the loss of my intellectual power
during the change called death, it was a transfusion of life
and subtle element pouring through every avenue of my
being, that restored memory, vitality, intellectual power, and
all the powers of manhood. Nor can I in this place picture
as vividly, perhaps, as I did on one other occasion through
this organism, the change called death, since other and press¬
ing incidents have crowded on my spirit, and I seem to have
been admitted at once into the vestibule of thought. I do
not know how this affects others—that is, I do not know it
from experience—but I know that, to me, augmented power
was a power of spirit, the augmented force was a force of
mind, the augmented reality was the reality of conviction,
the augmented longing was the longing for more truth, and
the one sublime word, the one rapturous thought that pos¬
sessed me was—Now I am Free to learn everything ! That one
word, Freedom—the guerdon of the nations—that for which
humanity struggles, that for which we so often urged the
tyrants of earth to bend and bow, that for which we have
sought for others, we find ourselves at death,—freedom from
the thraldom of the senses, freedom from the tyranny and
domination of disease, freedom from the fading faculties that
evade and elude our grasp when we would endeavour to use
them as of old, freedom from the oppression of that weak¬
ness that comes to the strongest mind and the strongest body
when over-worn and over-exerted, freedom from all the
constraints and complainings that are caused by physical
reaction ! Theologians would call it ‘ Redemption,’ I would
call it ‘ Resurrection,’ save that I am not conscious of having
died, but only of having been more and more merged into
life, into existence.
“I have wakened from a death that was the thraldom of
disease in the body. I have wakened from a prison-house,
the prison-house of the senses. . . . You will remember
when the corn laws were abolished in England, what a
shout of rejoicing went up from the people because we had
not pleaded in vain. You will remember when having lived
during the later portion of my life to see the fruition of the
abolition of slavery, what rejoicing there was in all our
hearts, but no like rejoicings can compare with the rejoicing
that comes to every spirit on release from the thraldom
of physical sense at that supreme moment when the crucial
question of existence is answered, when the soul stands on
the verge of infinitude or of destruction—that moment is a
moment of universal suspense. In the longing and expecta¬
tion which then took possession of my being, there was such
rapture, such consciousness of freedom, that I said, ‘All
nations of the earth must some time be free, since death is
such a blessing.’
“ Nor do I say this to augment the burdens of life. Far be
it from me to picture the change as one you must covet unless
life is completed on earth. But I only tell it as the last, the
final hope, and as the ecstasy to crown the despair, the labour,
and the weariness of years! . . . My first thought
after knowing that I was in existence, was to breathe that
thought to my children. My next thought was to discover if
there were any way of conferring with them upon the rapture
of the change concerning which we have spoken so frequently,
concerning which there have been poured into my ears from
my faithful child the words of inspiration and immortality in
verse and in prose from lips well accustomed to teach. Until
I could acknowledge my happy state, until I had breathed
some word of indebtedness and gratitude, it seemed that I
could not live in my new-found state.”
These extracts from a long speech made at Chicago, on
Sunday, February 2nd, 1879, are an exact spiritual counter¬
part of a much shorter speech purporting to come from
George Thompson, through a private medium, in October
last, 1878. His remains had just been interred, and his two
daughters attended a spiritual meeting announced in Leeds',
one of them in hopes of meeting some person of medial
powers, through whom her departed parent might commune
with her, and she was not disappointed. A medium was
powerfully agitated, and advanced towards the daughters of
George Thompson; a private sitting was arranged, and
during that sitting, which took place in the study of Mr.
Thompson’s house, after giving many tests of his identity by
using actions and touching objects and furniture in a way
well understood to those who had known his ways in that
room, the medium, drawing himself up as if to represent
height and dignity, expressed himself somewhat to this
effect:—“ My beloved child, I have used every effort of my
will to leach you, and to tell you that I enjoy such happiness
as words fail me to express. I can say but little through
this organism at present, but I can tell you that at length
my long imprisoned spirit is free, and has found a freedom
so great and glorious as even in my most sanguine moments
I never dreamed of. My child, may you one day know
this freedom in all its fulness. I am free to work for man¬
kind, for you, and my other dear daughters, as I could never
work on earth,” etc.
As these words, and more to the same purpose, fell from
the medium’s lips, tears of emotion rolled down his face;
it was felt by the daughter who listened that they were
affection’s tribute, and not those of grief. The beloved and
affectionate spirit has since then addressed his daughter
through Mr. J. W. Fletcher, to whom, and to the first
medium through whom her revered parent approached her,
she will always bear & debt of gratitude. In Mr. Fletcher’s
two letters there is the same tone of thankfulness for
freedom, and expression of a wish to promote its principles,
as was expressed through the Leeds medium, and which is
seen throughout the discourse given by Mrs. Richmond’s
mediumship. This fact must be kept in view, or the narrative
above is comparatively pointless, that the favoured recipient
of that Leeds message never mentioned the seance to any one
beyond her own immediate circle. Mrs. Richmond, in Chicago,
can never have heard either of the sitting or the message,
yet it is repeated in her address in more extended and
elaborated manner, and the fact distinctly stated that the
spirit was restless until he had manifested himself to his
children, and found means to testify his great happiness and
gratitude to them.
It is noteworthy that the Leeds private medium is a
tradesman of that town, who, amidst a life of many cares in
his own business, and the support of a large family, never
found time to study the politics of his day, and until he saw
a long article on his death in the daily papers, never knew
that such a person as George Thompson had existed or toiled
in bygone times for the freedom of the American slave, the
oppressed native of India, or the stricken poor of England.
Liverpool, May 4th, 1879.
Obituary.—A New Zealand paper publishes the following letter to the
editor from a subscriber, asking that a premature notice of his death might
be corrected :—^ Sir i notis a few errors in the obituary of myself which
appeared in your paper on Wensday, my retirement from busnis in ISG9
was not owing to ill heltb, but tu a little trouble i had in connection with a
horse and the cors of my death was not small pox. please make corrections
for which I enclose half-a-crown. ”
220
the spiritualist.
May 9, 1879.
THE RECENT EIRE AT THE SPIRITUALIST PRINTING
OFFICE.
The recent destruction of the printing office of Messrs.
Beveridge and Co., by fire, has, because of the nature of our
arrangements with those printers, thrown upon us an unex¬
pectedly sudden burden of expenses in the middle of a time
of commercial depression, and while we were engaged in the
costly work of considerably enlarging the standard book
literature of Spiritualism. For these three reasons the readers
of this journal are requested to once more contribute to a fund
in support of this journal and in recognition of its public
services, remembering also that for nine years while the
weekly newspapers of Spiritualism have been supported by
donations, about twice as much public money has been con¬
tributed to our competing neighbour as to The Spiritualist,
because of our Comparatively slight recourse to the subscrip¬
tion system. It is two years since any list of the kind has
appeared in these pages, and our desire to get free from the
system was such, that in 1878 we did not call upon more than
about half the subscribers to pay in the annual amounts for
which they had entered their names for both 1877 and 1878,
consequently half of the subscribers did not make their guar¬
anteed remittances in the latter year, and were purposely not
reminded of the circumstance.
Here is the list just mentioned, reprinted from the adver¬
tising pages of The Spiritualist of May 25th, 1877 :—
l(Annual Subscription for 1877 and 1878.”
Ju
Le Comte de Bullet ...
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Martin R. Smith, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq. ...
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
N. F. Dawe, Esq.
G. C. load. Esq.
The Hon. A. Aksakof...
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
M. R. I  
James Mylne, Esq.
b.’
C.T   ...
George Sutherland, Esq.
T. E. Partridge, Esq. ...
Thomas Grant, Esq. ...
The Countess of Caithness
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun
A Friend ... ...
B, :• ... ...
Mrs. E. Dixon...
The Rev. W. Whitear ...
Dr. Baikie ... ...
Miss Whitear ...
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., M.R.I.
Mrs. Lowe  
S.J. H.
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.
Ennesfallen ...
W. C. Pickersgill, Esq.
W.    ...
G.V,  ...
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D.
W. M, Buchanan, Esq., M.D.
A. Yacher, Esq.
Colonel Olcott 
The Baroness Von Vay
George Lee, Esq.
G. R. Tapp, Esq. ... -
Mrs.' Malt by  
B. W. Pycock, Esq. ...
Mrs. Nosworthy.
C. T. Hook, Esq.
Major Menars 
A. Glen dinning, Esq. ...
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.Tel.E.
Mrs. Hennings 
Dr. George Wyld
Miss Allen ... ;..
W. P. Adshead, Esq 
John Mould, Esq.
J. P. Turner, Esq.
J. T, Dodd, Esq.
Mrs. Jeffreys ... . ...
J. C. Eno .... ...
Miss Douglas ...
Johh Scott’ Esq. - ... -
J. C. Ferguson, Esq. ...
A, C, Swmton, Esq. ...
50
20
20
15
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
6
s. d.
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
5 0
5 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
2 0
2 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
10 0
1 0
1 0
1 0
1 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
<
(
(
(
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
Mrs. Tyndall ...
Lieut.-Col. Jacoby
John Chapman, Esq.
G. F. Green, Esq.
Mrs. E. K. Beeby
R. Catling
E. R 
J. Hare, Esq. ...
M. J. Walhouse, Esq.
A Friend
A Friend ...
T. H 
Miss Pearce ...
J. T. M.
£ s.
1 0
1 0
1 0
1 0
0 10
0 10
0 10
0 10
0 10
0 10
0 10
0 10
0 10
0 5
0 5
d.
0
0
0
0
6
G
6
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Those of our friends in the above list, who did not make
their remittances in 1878, are requested to do so now; those
who did make them in that year, would oblige by renewing
them at the present time, if they feel so inclined; and among
the large accession of new readers since the above list was
printed in 1877, perhaps not a few will come forward in this
matter, in recognition of the public services rendered by this
journal to the movement.
There never was a time when the value of a free press in
Spiritualism was more marked than at present, for there is
more organisation in the movement than in former years,
and in several of the organisations indications have been
perceptible of a desire to get the Spiritualist press under
their own control. In some of the inferior Nonconformist
organisations the press is so gagged that it dare not criticise
the actions of its rulers. Two friends only have been pre¬
viously advised of the opening of this new list. Mr. Black¬
burn says that he will subscribe not less than £20; and
“A Friend” enters his name for £10.
CLAIRVOYANCE IN NEWCASTLE.
[To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist,”)
Sir,—The Committee of the Newcastle-on-Tyne Spiritual
Evidence Society, on the recommendation of Mr. E. W.
Wallis, of London, entered into a brief engagement with
Mr. F. Matthews, of Birmingham, to afford its members an
opportunity of witnessing the results of his clairvoyant facul¬
ties. On Good Friday morning the Society’s stance room
was fairly filled with ladies and gentlemen, with most of
whom I am personally acquainted, therefore I could rely on
their testimony then tendered, and was induced to make
more particular and personal inquiry. Accordingly I in¬
vited Mr. Matthews to spend the afternoon with me, and as
briefly as lucidity will allow, I will state a few of the facts
which occurred on that occasion. Before doing so, let me inform
readers that Mr. Matthews was, until I made his acquain¬
tance on Good Friday, a total stranger to me, and on his
first visit he was ushered into the dining-room and never
was in any other room of the house. By the side of the fire¬
place he took a seat facing the window, and as the sun was
shining brightly, I had the advantage of watching the play
of features of the medium whilst I sat opposite to him, with
my back to the sunlight then streaming in.
He never passed into the trance condition, but appeared
to be in his normal state throughout the entire sitting, if one
may judge from similar appearances obtaining under dis¬
similar circumstances. The first fact of note was a description
of a gentleman who died some four years ago, and in proof
of the delineation corresponding with the individual my mind
had thus been directed to, Mr. Matthews said: “You have
his portrait in an album. If you will allow me to turn over
its leaves, I will point it out to you.” I handed him the
album, containing about a hundred photographs, and he
pointed out the portrait of the individual his description had
recalled to my mind.
Mr. Matthews continued turning the leaves of the album,
until he came to a photograph of a group of three young ladies,
when he exclaimed, “I’m gone,’’and further remarked that one
of the group had very recently “ passed away.” I looked at the
photograph in question, and found it included the portrait of
a young lady whose funeral I was to have attended on Wed¬
nesday last. Still turning the leaves, Mr. Matthews then
paused at a photograph of a lady and gentleman, and said:
“ Why do I see a vast volume of water here ? It is in a
turbulent state, and there is a very troublous connection be¬
tween this photograph and this ” (pointing to the photograph
Mat 9, 1879.
221
THE SPIRITUALIST.
of a young man underneath, that of the lady and gentleman).
I again looked at the photographs, and found the uppermost
ones to be those of a shipmaster and his wife, who traded be¬
tween Aberdeen and London, and whose steamer was in a
heavy storm making for the Tyne for shelter, but became a
total wreck. The photograph of the young man was their
son-in-law, who was obliged through untoward circumstances
to flee the country.
I have intimated that Mr. Matthews was only in my
dining-room, and while so sitting he pointed with his hand,
and said: “ In the room above, and in that direction, there
is a marble statuette of a female, covered by a glass shade,
and there is a piece of mixed marble lying on the same
table.” It is a fact, that in the direction he pointed, there
is a table on which there are the articles he enumerated.
He then described the kitchen, remarking that the floor was
only partially covered with cocoa-nut matting, which is
equally true. Mr. Matthews then told us we had a boy
(then playing in the kitchen, and whom he had never seen),
who had clairvoyantly seen a lady dressed in white at the
top of the house some time ago. This was also quite correct,
as the fact occurred some three years ago, but owing to the
boy’s tender years we sought to disabuse his mind of any
such ideas.
Mr. Matthews described the presence of a lady, who, he
said, was Mrs. Mould’s sister, and in proof of the accuracy of
the description, he said, turning to Mrs. Mould : “ You have
a black silk dress belonging to your sister, and about ten
days ago you were making some alterations in it.” Mrs.
Mould admitted that she had, about that time, been making
alterations in a black silk dress belonging to a sister (and
the only one), who died eight years ago.
Several oi my friends have sat with Mr. Matthews
privately, and in their experience I meet with a corroboration
of my own. In the public meetings now being held he has
given tests of his clairvoyant faculties, and although many
of them are of very general application, there have been
some of a specific character, and the descriptions were
recognised as accurate by the individuals to whom they were
addressed. Jno. Mould.
12, St. Thomas-orescent, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
CLAIRVOYANCE AND SPIRIT IDENTITY.
(To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist")
Sib,—I see in your issue of the 2nd inst. a letter from Mr.
John Greison.
The incident he mentions had quite escaped my memory
until I read his letter to you. I am glad to find that
although Mr. Greison is not a Spiritualist, he is not too much
prejudiced to publicly confirm the correctness of a communi¬
cation which he received from a spirit.
I regret very much the mistake he made at the seance in
denying all knowledge of his friend Felix Marston, whom I
distinctly saw and described to him.
I particularly remember remarking the uncommonness of
the Christian name "Felix,” and I thought that if he had
ever had a friend of that name, he ought to have been able to
recall it to mind.
Had he admitted frankly what he knew, we might have
then got further and valuable information, which he may
not readily find another opportunity of receiving, as his non¬
recognition of the description of his friend caused us to break
up rather abruptly, under the impression that nothing of
interest was likely to result by continuing the seance.
I am glad that he has received some confirmation of the
truth of the alleged fact of spirit communication, and it
would be a pleasure to me to learn that he pursues the in¬
vestigation.
I send you a report of a seance we held in Leipzig last year.
I have hesitated to send it to you for this reason: I left
Leipzig shortly after the 19th October, when the seance was
held ; out previous to doing so, I asked a gentleman, M. Le
Croix, to make inquiries us to the murder I saw committed.
I afterwards received a letter from him saying that ho had
made every inquiry of the people in the house, and of the
police, and ascertained that about 35 years ago a woman was
found in the house stabbed, but not dead ; she, however, died
in a few days in consequence of the several wounds she had
received. v. . rr-i i'o
The man who was supposed to have committed the crime,
for some time eluded the vigilence of the police authorities.
This letter I have unfortunately lost, and have no know¬
ledge of the whereabouts of the writer, Mons. Le Croix,
hence my reluctance to send the report for publication.
However, I leave the matter in your hands.
11, Denmark-street, Gateshead-on-Tyne. E. d’EspERANCE.
Leipzig, October 19th, 1878.
Having assembled to-night, for my part, for the last time, perhaps, with
Mrs. d’Esperance, I desired very much to test her clairvoyant powers. I
took from my pocket a sealed envelope, which contained a poem I had been
writing during the afternoon in my own room, at my lodgings. No. 7,
Wiutergarten-strasse, third story. I state this so distinctly for reasons that
will be observed later. She put the letter on her forehead, and startled me
with an expression of horror on her face, at the same time crying out:
" What are these people doing ? ”
Holler—“ Who ? ”
Mrs. E.—“ That woman.”
Moller—" I want you to read that paper! What woman are you talking
about ? Read the paper.”
Mrs. E.—“ I cannot! It is dreadful! Take me away! They arc
quarrelling, and he stabs her with a knife. Oh! it is dreadful. He has
murdered her! ”
Moller—“ Who?”
Mrs. E.—“ A man.”
Moller—“ Where does he do that ? ”
Mrs. E.—“ In your room. Now he is going away; and the poor woman
is left there, murdered.”
This unexpected communication having perfectly startled me, I asked the
Spirit what was the meaning of all this nonsense about a murdered woman.
Spirit—“ I cannot tell the reason, except that you could not control the
mind sufficiently, and she got beyond you. Try again, and penetrate as
much as possible. Put leading questions, and do not trust to being
informed without wrenching it out.”
The medium was therefore again told to look in the same direction.
Again she was horrified; bat now being told to do so, described the man
nearly as follows.
Moller—“ Who is that man ? ”
Mrs. E.—“ I don’t know him. He is a young man.”
Moller—“ Why does he kill her ? ”
Mrs. E.—“ They have been quarrelling, and she is fleeing from him. He
follows her up, and now—this is dreadful!—one—two—three—five—he
stabs her in five places.”
Holler—“ Is sue dead ? ”
Mrs. E.—“ Yes. No—not quite yet. He goes away.”
Moller—“Follow him.”
Mrs. E.—“ He goes down to where there is water. It is not far from
here, and he washes his hands. Now he goes into some kind of a shop or
tavern, I don’t know which; but he does not stop there.”
Mbller—“Why?”
Mrs. E.—“ He calls for something, but they ask him about something,
and he goes away hurriedly.”
Moller—“ But you say this is done in my room ? ”
Mrs. E.—“ Yes.”
Moller—“ Where am I, there ? ”
Mrs. E.—“ You are sitting there, by the table, writing, while they are
fighting with each other.”
Moller—“ Why don’t I help them then ? ”
Mrs. E.—“ Because you don’t see them. You shiver once or twice.”
Moller—“ Why don’t I see them, they are in the same room ? I should
think a man could not murder a woman as you describe, in the same room
where I am, and I remain perfectly passive, not even seeing it.”
Mrs. E.—“ But they are spirits.”
Here I asked the Spirit a question, and the medium wrote: “ A woman
has been killed in the room in which you wrote the lines the medium held,
and it must have been some time ago. The scene must have been enacted
over again while you were writing. The fact of your being a medium would
enable them to revisit the scene of the crime.”
Moller—“Can that have been the reason why I had no success the other
evening, while I was trying, when alone, and sat patiently for three-quarters
of an hour?” ^ :
Spirit—“ Very possibly. A peaceably disposed person, whether in the
flesh or in the spirit, would not care to come in close companionship with
those who were playing out such a scene.”
Holler—“ Do you think, then, that they enact that over again often ? ”
Spirit—“I should not think they would. No one would care to go
through such a struggle. It was most probably an experiment to see if you
were clairvoyant.”
Moller—“ For what reason would they wish to learn that ? ”
Spirit—“ Probably a device of the murdered woman.”
Mbller—“ But what could have possessed her to do that ? ”
Spirit—“ That is impossible for me to say. She may have had more than
one reason. Very likely it was never known who was the perpetrator of the
crime, and probably she was never avenged. I cannot tell what reason she
may have had.”
Thus terminate the reports of the seances I have had the pleasure of
witnessing with Mrs. d’Esperauco as a medium, and I may add, that if L
ever have been a sceptic in regard to some phenomena I have witnessed,
these seances have not only completely satisfied me, but they have interested
me beyond description, and made me proud to call myself henceforth yours
in Spiritualistic faith, * Gervajsius (Mbller).
222
fHE SPIRITUALIST
May 9, 1879.
CHINESE POETRY.
A 'wkiteb in Macmillan's Magazine translates the following poem from the
Chinese language. It is called the “Tiny Rill.”
Over green hills and meadows a tiny rill ran
(T i.e little precious coquette);
She is pretty, she knew, and thus early began
Gaily flirting with all that she met.
Her favours on both sides she’d gracefully shower,
Regardless of whom they might be ;
One moment she’d kiss the sweet lips of a flower,
The next, lave the root of a tree.
She would leap from one rock to another in play,
Tumble down on her pebbly bed;
Like a naiad, let the sun-smitten spray
Fall in prismatic gems round her head.
Sometimes she would lash herself into a rage,
And rush roaring and seething along ;
Till a bit of smooth ground would her anger assuage,
When she’d liquidly murmur a song.
CURIOUS MANIFESTATIONS.
BY HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD, J.P.
A singular exhibition of the power of spirits in dealing
with bodily substance was given on Saturday at a seance held
by Captain James at my house. The circle consisted of eight
sitters, among whom was Mr. Harrison. We all held hands,
one of the medium’s hands being held by a young lady well
known to me, and the other by a lady who saw him then
for the first time. As there was one sitter to whom the phe¬
nomena were nearly new, the two ladies were repeatedly
warned of the necessity of keeping constant hold of the
medium’s hands. Among other things, I had prepared a
ring made by tying the two ends of a length of tape together,
and sealing the free ends of the knot, with the intention of
trying whether we could get a knot tied on the closed ring,
as had been done under the medium ship of Slade and Eglin-
ton. I had taken care that the wax penetrated the substance
of the tape, appearing through on the other side, so that I
thought it impossible that the sealing could be undone. The
“ control,” having been very quiet for some time, intimated
that he was at work upon the tape, and after a while the
sealed end was put into my hand, and we were given to
understand by raps that a true knot was placed upon the
tape. On striking a light we found that this was really the
case. There was undoubtedly a knot upon the tape, which
could not possibly be undone without breaking the ring,
which was still closed by a knot with the ends sealed, appar¬
ently as I had left them. . But on nearer inspection I saw
that the knot by which the ring was closed was of a perfectly
different nature from that which I had made, while the seal
was partly effaced, looking like the impression of a bread
seal in inferior wax, instead of the sharp impression I had
left. .It was evident that the knot by which the ring was
originally closed had been cut off, and the ring fastened up
again after the required knot had been placed upon the tape,
while my seal (much damaged in the process) had been
transferred to the ends of the knot by which the ring was
now closed. The wonder is, how this could be accomplished
in a room without fire or candle. It is certain that the
medium had nothing to do with it, as his hands were in safe
custody during the whole of the seance.
At one period a good deal of light was coming in through
a crack in the shutters, when Mr. Harrison, who sat opposite,
saw a very long, dark arm passing across the light, and carry¬
ing the musical box or the bell which we heard ringing in
the air.
31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish—quare, London, May 5.
Mb. and Mrs. Loomis have left for the United States.
All notices of motion from members affecting the management of the
National Association of Spiritualists, must reach the Secretary by Tuesday
next, to be in time for the next Annual General Meeting.
The Late Fire.—Among the printer’s errors in the number of this
journal, printed in haste after the great fire at The Spiritualist printing
office, were -the following in the Rev. W. Miall’s article :—“ Coupled” for
“ adopted,” “ cojective ” for “adjective,” “ rendered ” for “endowed,” “un-
doubtable ” for “ undoubted,” “ show ” for “ avow,” “ never use ” for “ have
nof,” “await” for “ avail,” “rather” for “either,” “like” for “level,”
“ premises ” for “ premisses,” and “ bothers ” for “ brothers.”
II THEORIES CONCERNING SPIRITS.
| | BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, E.G.S., AUTHOR OE “LETTERS TO MISS MARTINEAU.”
The following is from an anonymous writer of the last
I < | century, on The World of Spirits:—“ Mr. Addison, in one of
j(j his papers (No. 110), where the scene is laid in the country,
m at the house of Sir Roger de Coverley, in Worcestershire,
I \ | observes that they are more excusable who believe in appari-
|j I tions than those who reject all extraordinary revelations of
ij this kind, and, contrary to the report of all historians, sacred
and profane, ancient and modern, and to the traditions of all
| nations, think the appearance of spirits fabulous and ground-
! less. Could we not give ourselves up to the general testimony
I'| of mankind, we should to the relations of particular persons
I > I who are living, and whom we know and cannot distrust in
I j i other matters of fact.”
Lucretius himself, though by the course of his philosophy
HI he was obliged to maintain that the soul did not exist
l)| separate from the body, makes no doubt of the reality of
I I apparitions, in that men have often appeared after their
I I death. This Mr. Addison thinks very remarkable; he was
hi so pressed with the matter of fact, which he could not have
I < I the confidence to deny, that he was forced to account for it
Hi by one of the most absurd unphilosophical notions that ever
) was started.
He tells us that the surfaces of all bodies are perpetually
:); flying off from their respective bodies, one after another, and
; that these surfaces, or thin cases, that included each other
whilst they were joined in the body, like the coats of an onion,
j are sometimes seen entire when they are separated from it;
( by which means he pretended to account for the appearance
Hi of the shapes of deceased or absent persons. Then we have
(I the theories of Lavater, of Zurich, in a work, De Spectris,
11 Fienus, Lord Yerulam, Dr. Henry More, and others, to the
|(| effect that, “A sick or dying person, or some one who finds
) | himself in imminent danger, sighs after his absent friend, his
I (| brother, his wife, or some person on some account or other
I (| dear to him. These, ignorant of his sickness or his danger,
(i perhaps do not think of him at this moment, while the former,
i I drawn by the ardour of his imagination, penetrates through
|(| all intervening obstacles, traverses space, and at the same
I) | time appears in his actual situation. In other words, he gives
11 such signs of his presence as approach to reality. But such
|j| an apparition, we can plainly understand, is not corporeal;
11 for the sick or dying person is languishing on his bed, and
/1 his friend, it may be, is travelling in full health upon the
\ | agitated ocean: his real presence then becomes impossible.
; What is it, then, that produces this species of manifestation ?
< I What is the cause that acts in this instance upon the senses
i/l of the one and upon the visual faculties of the other ? It is
<| the imagination—the imagination lost and disordered in
Hi love, ardency of desire, or, as one may say, concentred
Hi in the focus of passion.” The above phenomenon is brain or
/1 nerve sympathy, and there is no need of any strong imagina-
11 tion or passion in the matter. The curious responding of
)i certain flames to particular sounds—called “sounding and
j| sensitive flames”—is a good analogy, or a note in music
|/| causing a corresponding string in another instrument to
111 sound; but in every case of a response, or of sympathy at a
|) I distance, there must be an intervening medium of communi-
i j cation, as with the light and heat from the sun, and the air
i) I that communicates the motions of sounds; but how the
H| several mediums intermingle or interpenetrate is of a
in spiritual nature that physics cannot account for or com-
Hj prehend, and the naming it ethereal or spiritual does not
< i help us; and when we admit the fact of apparitions it would
Hi be hard to prove the existence of ghosts—not even should
|n they give us secret information of personal matters admitting
Hi of verification, considering the admitted range of clairvoyance.
I have felt much interest in Mr. Barkas’ lecture at Leeds,
11 and in the observation of the chairman that we fail to obtain
111 that information from the spirits that we might reasonably
||| expect—for instance, as to the real facts concerning the
I (| authorship of the so-called Shakespeare plays ; for it seems
i) | that the spirits of both Shakespeare and Bacon have put in
|(| their appearance, but contradict one another, and leave the
I) | question as unsettled as before.
£oulogn.e-Bux*Mer,
May 9, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
223
MATTER, FORCE, AND THOUGHT*
“Fancy fuses old and new,
And flashes into fa1se and true,
And mingles all without a plan.’’
I propose to occupy your attention for a few minutes upon
some fundamental facts connected with our own existence,
and with our conception of the existence of all things external
to ourselves. My remarks will be directed principally to
three subjects, namely, matter, force, and thought, into the
existence of which all other existences seem to resolve them¬
selves. For the time, then, I shall ask you to grant me that
there is such a thing as force, such a thing as matter, such a
thing as thought. In order to fix our ideas clearly, I propose
to commence with a simple illustration. Let us consider for
a moment our knowledge of the existence of the flaming gas
in that candle-light. How do we receive our impression of
it ? Men of science tell us that the oxidising process which
goes on is accompanied—nay, is in its essence a rushing
together of the atoms of which the gases are composed; that
this rushing together sets up a commotion in the neighbouring
atoms of ether, and that that commotion or vibration is com¬
municated from atom to atom till at length, after traversing
the eye-lens, it strikes against the retina at the back of the
eye. Here it comes in contact with the extremity of the
optic nerve, and the vibration communicates itself to the
particles of which the nerve is built up. The oscillation of
particle against particle takes place in the nerve, and so at
length the motion started in the candle flame is communicated
to the particles of the brain. Here a great gap comes.
Between the brain and the mind yawns a vast cavern not yet
bridged—not even dimly seen across. All we believe is that
somehow mind and matter are connected in the brain, and
that a change in the latter is accompanied by a corresponding
thought in the former. Is the thought the result of the
change ? Then man knows of the existence of things outside
of himself. Is the change merely the seeming result of the
thought ? Then man is but a single creature, alone in the
abysses, knowing nothing but his own thoughts, surrounded
by nothing but his own conceptions, incapable of proving his
own existence even to himself. Choose whichever of these
two positions you will, no one can dislodge you from it by
argument, and yet I scarcely think any will hesitate long
before his choice is made.
Take another illustration. Suppose I strike a tuning-fork.
What happens? The prongs of the fork beat against the
surrounding air and send forth a series of spheres of com¬
pressed and rarefied air; a series of vibrations in the air-
particles is set up, and these shocks of particle against
particle are sent on from one to another, till at length the
drum of the ear is struck by them, and made in its turn to
vibrate in harmony with the oscillating fork-prong. The
ear-drum, or tympanum, communicates its shivering to the
ear-nerve, and the vibration is carried along it once more to
the brain. The gulf once more gapes before us, and once
more we refuse to plunge aimlessly into the fathomless abyss.
We assume, we believe that, across this unknown some
way lies, and that the mind really does receive an impression
from without itself—that the whole process is not a dream
taking its rise and following its course entirely in the
imagination.
As with the senses of seeing and hearing, so with those of
smell and touch: every sensation that we are aware of is
caused by a vibratory motion of particles. We are met, then,
on the threshold of our inquiries by these two great facts of
matter and force, and with regard to these we must adopt
some distinct theory before we can advance farther. Every
one knows what is meant by the atomic theory of matter.
Day by day the conception of matter as consisting of an in¬
finite multitude of very small particles gains ground. We
are led to believe, with ever-increasing definiteness, that any
substance—take, for example, a drop of water—is built up of
a vast number of similar particles, called molecules, each of
which contains all the essential features of water. Subdivide
these molecules and this ceases to be the case; your water-
molecule splits up into two smaller molecules of hydrogen and
one molecule of oxygen. But, plunging yet a step farther,
the theory is forced upon us that the dinerence between a
* A paper read before the Cambridge University Society for Psychological Investigation,
by a graduate of the University.
|) | hydrogen-molecule and an oxygen-molecule lies, not in the
i < j nature of their substance, but rather in its arrangement.
;) i That a molecule of hydrogen is, in fact, built up of atoms
i (| exactly similar to those which are built into a molecule of
> oxygen, but the arrangement of the atoms is different in the
! j two cases. The difference between one substance and another
I) ] is to be found in a difference of structure, and not in one of
II nature. All matter is, then, to be considered as one and the
) i same, differing in arrangement but identical in substance,
i j: This, which is only theory in the case of matter, is certain in
I / that of force. Every force is identically the same as every
III other force. The work of physicists of the past fifty years
I /1 has proved beyond the shadow of a doubt that light and heat
111 and chemical action are one and the same, that they are the
j / i simple evidences of the action of energy producing motion in
|! the particles of matter, which motion is perceived by one
\)\ or another of our senses according as it is of such or such a
I j | character. A uniform force acting upon a uniform matter—
); such, then, is to be our idea of nature. One more point and
\]\ I have done with this part of our subject. Force and matter
)! are both alike indestructible. You may change one force into
j another ; you may hammer a piece of iron till it grows hot,
I) i and thus turn your life-force into heat; you may continue
j that hammering till the iron glows, and thus your life-force
) will show itself in the radiant metal; you may shout till the
) I gas globes ring responsive to your voice, and sound is turned
|)j into motion. Every form of force with which we are
; |! acquainted can be turned into any other form of force by
II \ known processes. And not only may you do this, but for a
(I given amount of banging you will get a fixed calculable
[; amount of heat; for a given loudness of shouting, a fixed
;|i calculable amount of vibration. Energy is one and in-
) destructible ; it is capable of being manifested in different
\ ways, but destroyed—never. So, too, with matter. Your
m candle burns down into its socket and apparently vanishes
( away, and yet it is only resolved into gases which float about
) \ in the atmosphere; and, collected, concentrated, and weighed,
) weigh exactly as much as the original candle. Gunpowder
) explodes in the barrel of your gun only to spread itself in
(i invisible condition in the surrounding air, announcing its
: / i change of form somewhat noisily, we think, and developing
| i therewith an amount of latent energy surprising to the
11 shoulder of the uninitiated. Matter and force, force and matter,
(: acting and acted upon, mutually dependent, never to be con¬
i' ceived of apart from each other—such is the duality into
j which we have now gained some insight. I say not to be
|; conceived of apart from each other, for we can gain no idea
\ of the existence of matter except by the intervention of force.
And more, we nowhere meet with matter except in some
I direct manner acted upon by force. The veriest lump of
earth is still held together by the force of cohesion, and the
most elementary knowledge of mechanics involves the re-
i cognition of the seemingly universal law that every particle
of matter attracts evei'y other. Neither can we conceive of
1 force apart from matter, for our very knowledge of force
(j arises alone from observing it in its relation to matter, hold-
m ing one particle to another, binding up in due order the
| i elementary atoms and molecules, or moving the stone whose
I /1 course the mischievous schoolboy watches through the glass
: j! of the nearest street-lamp, or again compelling with ever-
) | lasting constancy the motion of worlds and systems in the
(; infinitude of space.
And now I must press on to a point upon which I touched
h| at our last meeting in a few unprepared and somewhat
} disjointed sentences. We have seen the consistence and in-
) | terdependence of force and matter; we are now to consider
) the relation of thought to these. The way in which force acts
) upon matter no one knows ; the same gulf yawns between
) j the force acting and thing acted upon as between the
111 vibrating particles of the brain and the consequent thought
| / i that arises. All I want to show is, that thought, force, and
) matter, are dependent one upon another. I do not hope even
I > | vaguely to hint in what that interdependence lies. I tried
I last week to point out that under every material thing we see
lies a thought—“ a spirit,” 1 called it—an idea. A house
is the manifestation in matter by the aid of force of the
architect’s idea. I go farther, I say that a material atom is
the elementary manifestation of the element of thought of
the great universal eternal Thinker. This philosophy of
224
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 9. 1879.
existence of mine requires for its conception the admission of jj|
the existence of some infinity of external thought. Every I) i
thing, every atom,every molecule, every body, is the realization | |
—rather, perhaps, the localized manifestation—of a thought by |) |
the aid of force acting upon matter. The elementary thought | (!
is shown in the elementary matter-atom. The more complex 11 j
thought is built into the more complex molecule; whilst i (I
thought superimposed upon other thought, developed (by aid) |) |
to higher stages and still more complex forms, finds its outer ! (|
showing in substances which meet the eye and bear upon :) I
their outer surfaces an index of the idea they are intended to K j
convey. This is, indeed, the secret of all the art of the painter, i I
The true artist is he who sees most clearly the truth conveyed | i
in some object, and sets that truth down as he sees it. The |>|
fulness of teaching that is wrapped up in the most simple i (|
product of the fields is so great that no man can hope to j j j
realize it all, still less to translate it all into the language of j(|
every-day life. The real artist—the seer—sees some one j j
great truth in the subject of his work, and labours truly, | i
lovingly, and conscientiously to put down that truth, and ] I
that alone, in characters that he who runs may read. Yet, m
strange to say, the casual wanderer in our picture galleries of j J j
to-day generally fails utterly for want, apparently, of the \{\
the most ordinary moral sight, not only to read, but even to j) |
discover that what he is looking at means to teach him Ki
anything at all. .i, i; ji Yin K!
So much about art. Much more I should like to say, but ! (|
out of this multitude of subjects’ that offer themselves for |)j
inspection from our present point of view, we can only make | \ \
a very small selection. "We have to take a firm grip of this | j
fact, that matter, force, and thought, are dependent upon I |
each other; and more, that it is impossible to imagine one to I < I
exist where the other is not. An atom of matter is only j i
known by its attracting and being attracted; it must prove | i
its existence by showing that it is a centre of force; and further, I)!
an atom of matter is the outward expression of thought, and 111
it only proves its existence to us—only, in fact, exists, so far \)\
as we are concerned, when it is thought of by us, i.e., when i I j
our thought audits meaning are brought in contact with i)j
each other. For indeed how can anything be said to exist | !
for us except so far as we conceive of it ? A Patagonian | i
may at this moment be eating his dinner in South America, i (|
but what is that to me ? When I think of him as doing so, j)]
I do in a manner call him into existence, but when I am i ;
thinking of something quite different, can it be said that m
such a man has any existence so far as I am concerned. All | < j
that I can be certain of is, that there is a great entity outside j) j
myself, composed of this trinity of force, matter, and thought, j (|
I recognize myself in a similar trinity; I am conscious of !/j
thinking, and can act upon matter so as to move it, therefore ; ;
I am a centre of force, and my body consists of matter itself, j) j
Body, soul, and spirit—matter, force, and thought—such is the | (|
nature of a man, and such is the nature of the great infinity i (j
without him, the great unknown infinity that seems to him I i
to consist of men and worlds, nations, universes, and systems; i i
and something infinite, and beyond and above all these, which i
he calls God. We are certain of our own existence, we are i)|
certain of the fact of the existence of something without; i j
our conception of that something may be very false, but the | |
fact that it is, is sure.
“ As knowledge this comes only—things may be as I behold, i):
Or may notoe, but, without me and above me, things there are; |) i
I myself am what I know not—ignorance which proves no bar
To the knowledge that I am, ana, since I am, can recognise ; (:
What to me is pain and pleasure; this is sure, the rest—surmise.
If my fellows are or are not, what may please them and what pain,— I) \
Mere surmise: my own experience—that is knowledge once again! ”
And again:— ' 11)!
HQuestion, answer, presuppose in
Two points: that the thing itself which questions, answers—is, it knows i (|
As it also knows the thing perceived outside itself,—a force
Actual ere its own beginning, operative through its course, I) |
Unaffected by its end,—that this thing likewise needs must be ; j) j
Call this—God, then! call that—soul! and both the only facts for me. | (j
Prove them facts that they o’erpass my power of proving proves them such: j (j
Pact it is I know—I know not something which is fact as much.” i j |
Such, then, is to be our conception of things fundamental, i j
We shall not, however, pause here. Experience suggests to |||
us that the external universe of matter, soul, and spirit, is ill
not a vast unformed turmoil, but is arranged and built up in
some order, co-operative to some end. We see about us—
and our minds are accustomed, at any rate, to regard as
absolute existences—certain creatures that we call men.
Men are bodies of matter in which are resident centres of
force and origins of thought. A man is body, soul, and
spirit. Such, too, is the construction, not only of man, but
of animals, and of that which we are accustomed to consider
as inanimate matter as well. The universe of externals is
a universe of centres—centres, indeed, of different kinds—
co-operating. The body, soul, and spirit of a tree are not the
same as the body, soul, and spirit of a man. A tree is a
centre of force, for does it not grow? Do not its roots
plunge themselves into the ground and rend asunder at
times rocks and other barriers to their downward progress ?
Do not its boughs stretch themselves out to the air and the
light, drawing in life from without, waving to every wind
that blows, and crisping responsive to every ray of sunlight
which illumines their leaf-covered arms ? The spirit, too,
of a tree is not the same as the spirit of a man. A tree-
spirit may have consciousness—we know not—but conscious
or unconscious, its existence is none the less certain. The
law of its growth, the order and arrangement of its atoms,
the progress and development of trunk and branch, all bear
witness to the inner idea—the thought that is localized in it.
And so with all other objects. Every object in nature is a
trinity of body, soul, and spirit. Man is the most highly-
developed of such trinities. Believe me—
“ Man’s life is not an idle ore,
But iron dug from central gloom,
And heated hot with burning fears,
And dipped in baths of hissing tears,
And battered with the shocks ot doom
To shape and use.”
Man is more than a mere machine. He is a microcosm,
a universe in little, a representative of the conception of
God ; nay, more, an image of God Himself. We are
"Not only cunning casts in clay;
Let science prove we are, and then
What matters science unto men,
At least to me ? I would not stay.
Let him, the wiser man who springs
Hereafter, up from childhood, shape
His action like the greater ape,
But I was born to other things.”
Such, then, is existence. What is life ? This, after (all,
is the vital question. A man’s conception of life determines
his course of action; determines his hates and loves, his
fears, his joys, his whole moral development. And yet the
theory of life is altogether a theory; some facts are known,
some general principles realized, but as a whole, we are in
the dark, and left to form our own conception of all that is
vital, all that is high and noble, and to act upon it for better
or worse, guided, indeed, by an unerring instinct, the con¬
sciousness of unity with the infinite without.
Words fail me in attempting to convey any notion such
as I would upon this matter. I will j ust read a few stanzas
from that immortal poem, Tennyson’s In Memoriam, which
will say all that I could wish. Tennyson thinks that the
main intention of life is the isolation of a part of the general
soul in a part of the infinity of matter, and the teaching to
the microcosm so formed the fact of its independent existence.
“ The baby new to earth and sky.
What time his tender palm is prest
Against the circle of the breast,
Has never thought that * this is I: ’
“ But as he grows he gathers much,
And learns the use of ‘ I ’ and ‘ me,’
And finds ‘ I am not what I see,
And other than the things I touch.’
“ So rounds he to a separate mind
From whence clear memory may begin
As thro’ the frame that binds him in
His isolation grows defined.
c< This use may lie in blood and breath,
Which else were fruitless of their due,
Had man to learn himself anew
Beyond the second birth of Death.”
If this be tbe case, we see at once that the very object for
which life took place would be lost were there any remerging
again in the general soul.
May 9, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
225
“ That each, who seems a separate whole,
Should move his rounds, and fusing all
The skirts of self again, should fall
Remerging in the general soul,
“ In faith as vague as all unsweet:
Eternal form shall still divide
The eternal soul from all beside
And I shall know him when we meet
“ And we shall sit at endless feast.
Enjoying each the other’s good :
What vaster dream can hit the mood
Of love on earth ? He seeks at least
“ Upon the last and sharpest height,
Before the spirits fade away.
Some landing-place to clasp and say,
‘Earewell! We lose ourselves in light.5 ”
We have seen that there is no destruction of force; that
there is no destruction of matter ; likewise, also, there never
can he any destruction of the thought entirely, that is, of
spirit. We look for the resurrection of the dead, and the
life of the world to come.
“Oh yet we trust that somehow good
Will be the final goal of ill.
To pangs of nature, sins of will,
Defects of doubt, and taints of blood;
“ That nothing walks with aimless feet;
That not one life shall be destroy’d,
Or cast as rubbish to the void,
When God hath made the pile complete;
“ That not a worm is cloven in vain;
That not a moth with vain desire
Is shrivelled in a fruitless fire,
Or but subserves another’s gain.
“Behold, we know not anything;
I can but trust that good shall fall
At last—far off—at last, to all,
And every winter change to spring.
“ So runs my dream : but what am I ?
An infant crying in the night:
An infant crying for the light:
And with no language but a cry.
“ The wish, that of the living whole
No life may fail beyond the grave,
Derives it not from what we have
The likest God within the soul ?
“ Are God and nature then at strife,
That nature lends such evil dreams ?
So careful of the type she seems,
So careless of the single life.;
“ That I, considering everywhere
Her secret meaning in her deeds,
And finding that of fifty seeds
She often brings but one to bear,
“ I falter where I firmly trod,
And falling with my weight of cares
Upon the great world’s altar-stairs
That slope thro’ darkness up to God,
“ I stretch lame hands of faith, and grope,
And gather dust and chaff, and call
To what I feel is Lord of all,
And faintly trust the larger hope.
“ ‘ So careful of the type ?5 but no.
From scarped cliff and quarried stone
She cries, ‘A thousand types are gone:
I care for nothing, all shall go.
“ * Thou makest thine appeal to me:
I bring to life, I bring to death:
The spirit does but mean the breath:
I know no more.’ And he, shall he,
“ Man, her last work, who seemed so fair,
Such splendid purpose in his eyes.
Who roll’d the psalm to wintry skies,
Who built him fanes of fruitless prayer,
“ Who trusted God was love indeed
And love creation’s final law—
Tho’ Nature, red in tooth and claw
With ravine, shriek’d against his creed—
“Who loved, who suffered countless ills,
Who battled for the True, the Just,
Be blown about the desert dust,
Or seal’d within the iron hills ?
“No more? A monster then, a dream,
A discord. Dragons of the prime,
That tear each other in their slime,
Were mellow music matched with him.
“ 0 life as futile, then, as frail!
0 for thy voice to soothe and bless!
What hope of answer, or redress ?
Behind the veil, behind the veil.”
And so we are brouglit back again to the fact with which
we started—that knowledge, as depending upon reason, is
wanting with regard to the nature and conditions of existence.
We cannot say, “ We know; ” we only can say, “We believe.”
This, be it observed, is not a lower order of statement. Far
be it from me to look upon belief as lower than knowledge;
it is rather the highest to which we can ever hope to rise.
Knowledge is of the earth, but faith is of the infinite, the
unseen. Faith deals with that which is felt. It is faith
that teaches us to look for a perpetual progress, for an eternal
advance, for an infinite aim. It is faith
“ That doubts not thro’ the ages one increasing purpose runs,
And the thoughts of men are widened with the process of the suns.”
It is faith that has reversed the verdict of the heathen poet—
“ JEtas purentum pejoi aves tulit,
Nos negioses max daturos,
Progerwm vitiotioren?
Let me end with the unsurpassable words 'of the poet,
whose thoughts it has been my endeavour to weld into the
latter part of this paper:—
“We have but faith: we cannot know.
For knowledge is of things we see.
And yet we trust it comes from Thee,
A beam in darkness: let it grow.
“ Let knowledge grow from more to more.
But more of reverence in us dwell,
That mind and soul agreeing well,
May make one music as before,
“ But vaster. We are fools and slight;
We mock Thee when we do not fear;
But help Thy foolish ones to bear;
Help Thy vain worlds to bear Thy light.”
AXIOMS OF THE WILL.
{Selections Translated from Eliphaz Levi's ,l La Clef des Grandes Myst'eres. ”)
1. Nothing resists the will of man when he knows what
is true, and wills what is good.
2. To will evil is to will death. A perverse will is a com¬
mencement of suicide.
. 3. To will what is good with violence is to will evil; for
violence produces disorder, and disorder produces evil.
5. To have the right to possess always, it is necessary to
will long and patiently.
6. To pass life in willing that which it is impossible to
possess always, is to abdicate life and to accept eternal
death.
7. The more the will surmounts obstacles the stronger it is.
It is for this reason that Christ glorified poverty and
distress.
9. The will of the righteous man is the will of Cfod Him¬
self, and is the law of nature.
10. It is by the will that the intelligence sees. If the will
is healthy, the sight is true. God has said, “ Let there be
light,” and there is light. The will said, “ Let the world be
as I wish to see it,” and the intelligence sees it as the will
desired. This is what is signified by the word “ Amen” (so
be it), which confirms acts of faith.
11. When one creates delusions (fantdmes) one brings into
the world vampires, and these creatures of a voluntary night¬
mare must be nourished with one’s blood, with one’s life,
one’s intelligence and reason, and are never appeased.
12. To affirm and will that which ought to be, is to create;
to affirm and will that which ought not to be, is to destroy.
.16. To do nothing is as fatal as to do ill, but it is even more
shameful. The most unpardonable of mortal sins is sloth.
17. To sufier is to labour. A great trouble suffered is an
advance accomplished. Those who suffer most, live most.
19. Fear is only an indolence of the will, and it is therefore
that opinion brands cowards.
20. Overcome your fear of the lion, and the lion will fear
you. Say to your pain, I will that thou be a pleasure, and it
will become a pleasure, even more than a pleasure, a happi¬
ness.
21. An iron chain is easier to break than one of flowers.
22. Before pronouncing a man fortunate or the reverse, you
should know what has been the direction of his will. Tiberius
died daily at Capri, while Jesus proved His immortality and
His diyinity even upon Calvary and on the Cross.
226
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 9, 1879.
ALLEGED EXTRAORDINARY MANIFESTATIONS. ]
The Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.) of April 5th, 1879, con- |
tains a letter signed “ John S. Adams, West Roxbury, Mass./’ j (
who states that his narrative is given to him “ by a lady of j \
unimpeachable veracity.” Thus the story is practically anony- j (
mous, and the editor does not state that he knows anything !)
of the personality or trustworthiness of the Mr. Adams K
through whom the account reaches the public at second-hand. I /
At present, therefore, the alleged incidents are given upon i J
authority far too weak for their importance, if real. The : /
medium is described as “ a young lady of about eighteen i j
years,” of a very respectable position in private life. Mr. ! (
Adams says:—
“ The manifestations occur at noonday, in a room flooded |)
with sunlight, and in the presence of persons who have no | (
faith in Spiritualism. Every side of the room is thickly j)
padded. This is because the power concentrated in and about | (
the medium is so great that she is frequently thrown with i (
considerable force across the room, and the same is liable to j ^
occur to others who are present. On one occasion as my i)
informant approached her, she was cautioned against doing so, I)
but not at the moment fully comprehending what was said, i /
quick as a flash, as she expressed it, she was thrown to the |)
further end of the room, and struck the wall so forcibly that | /
the precautionary padding was all that prevented her from (
receiving bodily injury.
' “ As a further illustration of how fully charged is the
medium with the peculiar element or condition requisite for
the manifestation, I will mention the fact that, as she holds
her hands pointing upwards, from the ends of the fingers
appear wavering flames, as those of candles; and when she
stands in a dark room her whole body is translucent with
light, and appears like a pillar of fire.
“She is always conscious of the approach of the manifestations
in time to make all needed preparations for what is to follow,
and the small select company is called together, consisting,
usually, of the family physician, an aunt and uncle of the
medium, the lady who reports to me the occurrences, and one
or two others. As the power increases, the medium becomes
drowsy, and is seated in a chair near a window, the curtain '
of which is raised * and the drapery withdrawn, so that the |)
strong rays of the sun may shine directly upon her. Pre- : l
sently a mist or cloud is seen to form upon the floor at her j)
feet, appearing like the smoke of a smouldering fire. This j
emits a strong, pungent odour, and gradually increases in
quantity and denseness until it conceals all, or nearly all, of | j
the body of the medium, when instantaneously appears, as if |)
emerging from the cloud, a little girl, apparently six or seven (
years of age, with long golden hair covering her neck and )
shoulders. At the same instant the medium and the chair (
in which she sits vanish, and the spectator walks over the /
spot where they were, without discovering the least trace of
them. The child walks about, talks in a prattling childish ; /1
way, speaks of the pretty home and garden she has ‘up Hi
there,’ asks many questions and receives replies from those /
present, seemingly with great pleasure. This child had met | <
my informant so many times that they are quite familiar j
with each other; so much so that at a recent interview Hi
the latter ventured to ask for a lock of her hair, and the )
consent of the child being obtained, scissors were brought Hi
into requisition and the souvenir was taken. This hair was /
carried home by the lady, but it is slowly c ematerializing,
and, doubtless, will eventually wholly disappear. This little
girl was the first to appear, and comes on every occasion.
Of late a hassock has been furnished for her, upon which she
sits, and a basket of flowers is given to her with which she
plays and amuses herself as long as she remains—usually an
hour or more. The hair of the child is of a light golden
colour, of soft and silken texture, while that of the medium
is dark brown or black.
“For a long time the only spirit that appeared was this
little girl, but latterly others have made themselves visible,
and shown themselves as tangibly present as persons in
earthly form. These Come into view, not slowly, but quick
as a flash of light, and as quickly depart. At one instant
the medium is seen seated in her chair, the next both medium
and chair have vanished, the place ^where they "were is
vacant, and strangers walk the floor I
“ A short time since, after the child had come, taken its
seat and commenced to play with the fresh, bright flowers,
a tall, dignified person, claiming the name of Queen Bess,
flashed into a visible form to human eyes. Soon after
another, bearing a striking resemblance in size, feature, and
dress to George Washington, appeared, and shortly after but
another, a man of stately bearing, who gave no name, yet
who intimated that he would soon do so. Thus in the midst
of a small company of non-Spiritualists, guarded from all
possible collusion with the outer world, in as absolute privacy
as earthly conditions could furnish, suddenly appeared four
distinct individuals, each intelligent and communicative.”
CUTTING DOWN THE PUBLIC RIGHTS.
In looking back over the work of the last nine months, to show how the
rights and liberties of many Spiritualists are gradually being cut down, it
should be borne in mind that organisations occupy in the world of thought,
the same position which fortifications hold in the world of materiality.
In the hands of good men they are defences against foreign enemies. In
the hands of other men they may be used to keep down the population
which innocently helped to build them.
This was recognised by objectors to the formation of the National Associ¬
ation of Spiritualists, wno said in effect—“ If we build up a great organi¬
sation, we shall be unable to move without it, and shall none of us have any
liberty, just as in some of the narrower dissenting organisations freedom
is fettered.” The general reply at public meetings was—“ But in ours we
will provide safeguards. The members of the ruling body shall be elected
by vote by ballot, and all the proceedings shall be public. The publicity
will check all corruption and self-seeking.” Perhaps some of us then
thought that Spiritualists were different to other people, and that among
them selfishness and votes against the interests of the public were
impossible.
The organisation was formed, and after it had been at work a year or
two, the managers abolished vote by ballot without asking the consent of
the members.
The proceedings for a time were all public; anybody, who wanted to
know the details of what was doing on Committees, could get all particulars
) | merely by asking the Secretary for permission to look at them. But last
) ■ year this was stopped, and a power taken, without consulting the members,
?: of permitting entries of resolutions passed to remain in the minute books of
• Committees, without being made known to the Council (consequently to the
public press), and which the Secretary was not allowed to show to private
members.
The insidious steps by which encroachments on the rights of the private
members were made are appended, in the shape of official motions now
entered on the Minute Book of the Council, and signed by the Chairman.
At the meeting of the Council on September 10th, 1878, the following
resolution was passed, with one dissentient only, prohibiting private mem¬
bers of the Association from seeing the proceedings of Committees without
the special sanction of the Council:—
(1.) That it is inexpedient that the proceedings of committees appointed
by the Council be open for the inspection of any person not a member of the
Council, except by permission of the Council.
The following amendment to stop the above advance upon the public
rights, did not even find a seconder:—
(2.) That it is expedient that the proceedings of committees appointed by
the Council be open to the inspection of all the members of the Association.
Next, the following prospective vote of censure seeking to gag the press,
by means of threats of consequences if it let out too much of the doings of
Committees, was passed, and carried with but one dissentient:—
(3.) That it be considered a breach of privilege on the part of any member
of the Association to make public comments and criticisms on the proceed¬
ings of its committees, and on the action of individual members on those
committees, except as they are brought before the Council by their own
reports or otherwise.
The following amendment, to check the above advance on the public
rights, was proposed, and did not even find a seconder:—
(4.) That this Council, being responsible to its constituents for the trans¬
actions of its committees, repudiates all attempts to cut off any of those pro¬
ceedings from its own knowledge by allowing committees to withhold any of
their business, and recognises the established principle in public life that the
full publishing of proceedings, and the avoidance of secrecy, are necessary
in all bodies which claim the support of intelligent members.
As those of the above resolutions which were adopted, put difficulties iu
,. the way of ascertaining all the resolutions recorded by committees sitting
(i in private, it became important that if any mischief should develop in them.
I: unseen, consequently unchecked by the public, a record should be preserved
11 on the books as to who originated it, and. who voted for it, in order that iu
I \ the long run the act might he brought home to the right persons. Conse-
(i quently the following was. moved, but nobody would second it:—
(5.) That the side on which each member of a committee votes at every
/ i division of a committee be recorded in the minutes; that the minutes of all
); committee meetings be open to inspection, for public or other purposes, by
/! any member of the Association; and that the votes at divisions of com-
(i mittees shall be published in the Proceedings of the Association, whenever,
(! at the discretion of the chairman of a committee, they shall be deemed of
(; sufficient public importance. •
) | Town Councils everywhere stop the action of small cliques and secret
t i work in Committees, by the following admirable and unobjectionable plan,
(j which was moved at the Council meeting of the National Association of
j) i Spiritualists in October, 1878, but of course nobody seconded it;—
May 9, 1879,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
227
(6,) That the minutes of all committee meetings held during the intervals
between Council meetings be read in full by the Secretary to the Association,
at the first Conncil meeting after they have been passed, and be of non¬
effect and not authorised until they are both received and adopted by the
Council.
As passed resolutions affected the position of private members, by concen¬
trating power in the hands of the Council, by giving it facilities to do work
in Committees away from the public gnze, the following notice of motion
was given at the above meeting :— *
(7.) That some of the committees of this Council having entered minutes
of business transacted which they have not reported to the Council; that a
resolution having been passed forbidding private members of the Association
to see those minutes without the special sanction of the Council; that the
press having been silenced in relation to the said minutes by a resolution that
the publication of them will be deemed a breach of privilege—It is hereby
resolved that action upon all the resolutions thus changing the constitution
of the Association and producing the above results, passed on the 10th of
September last, shall be suspended until the members have had an opportu¬
nity at the next annual general meeting of saying whether they wish to sup¬
port a heretofore public institution, which, without their consent, has taken
the power to transact secret business, and to shut them out from subsequent
knowledge thereof.
This idea of consulting the private members about their own rights was
so obnoxious, that the Council then and there, by formal vote, refused to
accept the notice of motion.
At the next Council meeting (November, 1878), the following sensible
letter from Mr. Dawe was read:—
"5, Portman-street, Not. 11, 1878.
“ To the Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
“ Gentlemen,—I observed with great regret the adoption of the resolu¬
tions of Mr. Bennett and others, giving committees power to keep some of
their official transactions secret from the members of the Association. I
consider secrecy in any form very prej udicial to the interests of any society,
more especially one looked upon with the prejudiced eyes with which the
public regard Spiritualism.
“ For my own part I beg to withdraw my name and support as long as the
said resolution remains on the books of the society.—Very truly yours,
“N. Fabyan Dawe.
“ P.S.—In writing this I represent several other membersof the Association.
“ N. F. D.”
The Council, with one dissentient, ordered the following reply to be
sent:—
(8.) That the Secretary, in her reply, point out that Mr. Dawe’s letter
argues on a false issue, and that the Council has taken no new powers
whatever.
Let any member of the Association call upon the Secretary, ask to see
the minutes of Committees, which in early times would have been at once
shown to him, and he will soon find out practically whether new powers
have been taken.
The members of Council are ignorant of much that goes on in Committees
unless they read through the minute books, and the Secretary is no longer
allowed to be present, and to exercise her usual duties, at one of the
Committees.
Mr. Dawe received the above reply just before he left for Egypt and the
Nile, since which time his name has been kept on the Council without his
knowledge or consent.
The unconstitutional custom exists in the National Association of
Spiritualists of permitting Committees to take up work they have not been
instructed to deal with; this gives them an extra-wide range of action in
private.
One argument urged in favour of private work on Committees was—“ We
tell the members everything it is proper for them to know.”
But the members never authorised the managers to decide what was or
was not proper for them to know; they were appointed to control a public
organisation, and had no right to limit the publicity.
Another argument was that certain trading companies did not have
minutes of Committees read over at Board meetings. Considering that
some trading companies have been formed to fleece the shareholders, some
to fleece the public, and some to compete with neighbours, we cannot see
why the example of a trading company should be followed. It would be a
good thing for the public, if the Government would arrange to let plenty
more daylight in upon the proceedings of trade organisations.
The Council having given plenty of facilities tor private work on Com¬
mittees, and not made it compulsory to record how their members vote at
divisions, it next refused to make the recording of the votes at its own
meetings compulsory, thus decreasing the responsibilities of individual
members, and making it less easy for their constituents to keep an eye
upon their actions. On September 10th, 1878, the following motion was
rejected by a large majority:—
(9.) That the side on which each member of Council rotes on all divisions
at Council meetings be recorded and published in the proceedings of the
Associati*. n.
The Council also (December, 1878) rejected the following motion; in
fact, it did not find a seconder:—
(10.) That this Council is of opinion that if it does not inform the members
of the Association how each councillor has voted in divisions relating to
public questions, yet asks the members to vote for or against him at annual
elections, the members are thereby placed in a false position; so this Council
pledges itself to adopt measures to let them know how their representatives
perform their duty.
The Council, at the same meeting, rejected the following motion:—
(11.) That the General Purposes Committee is hereby instructed to con¬
sider and to report to the next Council meeting the best method of keeping
the members of the Association informed how each of their representatives
on the Council does his duty.
, There are several hundred pounds worth of property on the premises of
I
!
>;
)
)
)
!
)
the National Association of Spiritualists, which, unlike the Dalston Associ¬
ation of Spiritualists, and other public bodies who possess furnished offices,
keeps no stock account. On September 10th, 1878, the following resolution
was referred to the General Purposes Committee:—
(12.) That a stock account of the property belonging to the Association
be kept, and presented monthly to the Finance Committee; that it shall
show all changes in the stock during each month, and the causes thereof;
and that the Finance Committee shall report monthly the value of the stock
belonging to the Association.
Committees not only deal with work they have not been ordered to take
up, but leave undone, if they choose, work given them to do. No report
has ever been given in on the above subject.
The late Secretary, a few days before she left, discovered, as she thought,
that a number of cnairs had been stolen from the premises, and thought
they must have been taken a long time previously. Nobody had previously
discovered anything about it, for want of a monthly stock account. This
prevents any member of the Council, who wishes to do so, from keeping an
eye on changes and breakages in the property. We do not know whether
the Secretary afterwards found the missing chairs.
Of course a body of managers which has gradually taken facilities for
working more than before away from the public gaze, does not like a free
press which looks after the public liberties. The Council has threatened
it, as set forth in Motion 3, already quoted; and in pursuance of the same
line of action, it passed the following resolution at its last meeting, in con¬
junction with some antagonistic remarks about The Spiritualist:—
(13.) That the General Purposes Committee be empowered also to consider
if any and what better means might be adopted for fairly and impartially
advertising the proceedings of this Council and Association.
A meeting of the General Purposes Committee, consisting of Mr. Dawson
Rogers, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. A. Calder, and Dr. Wyld, therefore sub¬
sequently sent The Spiritualist the following letter, which on being
analysed, is seen to offer ten shillings a column (!) for advertising. If it had
been drawn up for the express purpose of being rejected by a weekly paper
unth a circulation, and accepted by a monthly journal without a circulation,
and in which advertising space was worth nothing, it would have been
worded the same :—
“•British National Association of Spiritualists,
“38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
“April 22nd, 1879.
“ Deab Sib,—The General Purposes Committee of the British National
Association of Spiritualists have under consideration the advertising arrange¬
ments of the Association, and also the best means of furnishing members with
an authoxitative report of the proceedings of the Council.
“ With respect to these points I am instructed to inquire whether you are
prepared to entertain the following propositions, receiving in return an
inclusive sum of £9 a quarter, commencing with the first week in July :—
“1. To insert all the usual advertisements of the Association monthly,
instead of weekly, as heretofore.
“ 2. To insert in the same No. of The Spiritualist an authorised report of
the proceedings of the Council signed by the President, such report not to
exceed a column in length.
3. To furnish the Association with 250 free copies of The Spiritualist,
containing such advertisement and report for distribution.
“Your early answer will oblige, as the Committee will meet on
Monday 28th. ' C. A. Bubke, Secretary.
“ W. H. Harrison, Esq.”
To the foregoing letter the following reply was sent:—
“ 38, Great Russell-street,
“ April 28th, 1879.
“ To the General Purposes Committee,
“ Gentlemen,—Your proposition for advertising is so framed, that it would
be of special value to any monthly paper which has no circulation.
There being little profits on circulation, your off t > take 250 copies for
mo thly di tribution, is of i o special benefit o The Spiritualist, which
already ha; a large circu atio > ; but it so reduces the payment for advertising,
us to leave but about ten shillings a colum > for that purpose. Thus the
offer would be adapted only to ihe requirements o any monthly journal which
u.i^ht desire to be lem.nerated for being advertised and circulated at the
expense of your members.
“ 1 therefore propose to accept your offer if the following modifications are
n a ’e :—
“1. That instead of 250 Spiritualists per month, I shall supply you
with 250 copies of your advertisements and official Council report, monthly,
one week after they have been printed in The Spiritualist,
“ 2. That the Council report shall never exceed one column in length; that
it shall also have the word ‘[Advertisement]’ printed at the top in small
type, in br >ckets.
“ (Nothing is ever inserted in the literary part of The Spiritualist on pay¬
ment, and when the public are reading advertisements they ought to know it.)
“3. That no cross-headings, or sub-headings, or unusual displays of type
shall be put in the report, and the only cross-heading shall be the title—
* Council Meeting of the National Association of Spiritualists.’
“I cannot publish your present advertisements on the present terms after
this quarter. I have been charging you about £ 100 a year less than a cheap
contract price, because I wanted to help organisation.
“ W. H. Habbison.’’
Thus (hey have been practically tendered all they asked which would be
of use to them. They scarcely want a corrupt journal in Spiritualism,
which would insert a report on payment as if it had been put in by the free¬
will of the editor, so cannot object to the word “ advertisement ” at the top;
and if they obtain 250 copies of their own printed matter for circulation,
can scarcely be so enthusiastic about our articles on the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, as to plead anxiety to circulate them broadcast at their
own expense.
There might be no harm in the Council writing to Mr. Blyton, to ask
whether one or more of the persons who voted in committee that the offer
in Miss Burke’s letter should he made to us, have a commercial interest in
any Spiritualistic monthly journal. This remark does not apply to Mr.
Calder or Dr. Wyld.
Let us turn to another subject. In the same spirit of grasping at authc-
r 228
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 9, 1879.
rity, the Council, in spite of the protests of its minority of ablest members,
gave an official decision adverse to the character of two mediums, on testi¬
mony which would have been /rejected by a Court of Law. The sacred
property of personal character' having been thus dealt with, and a new
autnority thus seeking to exert itself in matters connected with English
social life, no wonder that the majority of physical mediums now refuse to
sit for the Council, and that the valuable experimental apparatus generously
presented to it by Mr. Blackburn continues almost entirely unused.
The evils likely to arise from a number of persons working together for a
whole year in a centre of power, without meanwhile consulting their con¬
stituents about anything, was so felt that at the Annual General Meeting in i
May, 1876, the members unanimously passed the following resolution:—
(14.) That in addition to the Annual General Meeting in May, another
General Meeting he held in each year.
This resolution was passed in order that the affairs of the Association
should come under the jurisdiction of the members twice a year, instead of |
once. From that day to this the Council has never acted on the instructions
thus given by the members, nor called the second meeting.
It nas been said that all our objections are trivial. But the fourteen
motions added together are not trivial, and every decision over them, with¬
out an exception, has added to the power of the Council, wherever the re- I
lative powers of the councillors and their constituents were in opposition, i
Only one thing more remains to be done, namely, to shut out a free press !
from the Council meetings, and in Spiritualism we shall have a ruling body |
with as narrow and despotic a constitution as the most intolerant of the
small religious sects, in which a number of men, for the most part little |
known, sit behind closed doors, and govern everything. It is within our
knowledge that some of the strongest supporters of the National Association
will set their faces against anything of the kind in Spiritualism, and that the
effects will be felt when the Council wants subscriptions in 1880, or earlier. ]
“ If these things he so, our enactments are not like those of the Medes i
and Persians, which alter not.” [But most of these enactments were !
passed while the Council was weak, and asking for financial assistance. Had
it been strong, it would have been much more cock-a-hoop. There is little
chance of four-fifths of the present “ working members ” giving up any scrap j
of authority they can grasp.
(< You should have put off going into these matters till more prosperous I
times.” Yes, to be then confronted with the argument, “Why do you i
object to these edicts now, when you made no protest at the time when i
they were enacted ? ” People who do wrong in adversity, act worse in
prosperity.
“All these statements are mere abuse, couched in reprehensible language.”
They consist in their vital points of formal motions, entered on the minute-
book of the Council, and signed by the Chairman. We request readers to
take no action upon anything in this article, except the paragraphs so entered i
and signed.
With this parting summary, we are going to take no farther active part ]!
in the working of the Association, so long as the Council is so large that to j,
fill up its complement, it is necessary to put many persons on it who have j (
never rendered any great public service to the cause of Spiritualism. Else- | j
where in this movement we nowhere come into contact with an atmosphere ij
of contention, but were temporarily in that unpleasant position while check- j}
ing at every point those who were bit by bit cutting down the public rights, j
Me. Fletchee’s Sunday evening meetings at the Steinway Hall, Lower
Seymour-street, London, now begin at seven o’clock.
Mes. Makdougall Geegoey is progressing favourably in health. She
is steadily recovering from the attack of illness which has been the cause of
much anxiety to her friends.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt. j \ i
“RIFTS IN THE yEIL.,, | |
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best j) |
minds in Spiritualism, a poxtion of the continuation of j (i
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD, ! |
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a ! (|
writing medium ; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens, j (I
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon).”
A CHEAP EDITION
of this refined work has just been published.
Price Three Shillings and Sixpence, post free.
This edition is one of the cheapest and most elegant works ever published
in connection with Spiritualism.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Will be Published in a few Days,
Cloth, Crown 8vo, Red Edges, Price Five Shillings and Sixpence. Post Free
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
SPIRITS BEFORE OUR EYES.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
The Book is full of evidence of Spirit-Identity.
The Superfine Edition, bound in half calf, Eight Shillings and Sixpence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Now ready, the Second and Concluding Volume of the
MECHANISM OF MAN:
LIFE, MIND, SOUL.
A POPULAE INTBODUCTION TO MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGY.
By EDWARD W. GOX, S.L.,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
Vol, II. Treating of the Mechanism in Action, Price 12s. 6d.
Vol. I. may be had, price 10s. 6d.; the work complete, 22s. 6d,
CONTENTS :
Part II.—THE MECHANISM IN ACTION.
Book I.—The Normal Action of the Mechanism of Man.—Chapter 1. Intro*
ductory ; 2. The Action of the Material Mechanism in Health; 3. Of Un¬
conscious Cerebration ; 4. Of Mental Sympathy and Communion ; 5. Body,
Mind, and Soul in Health.
Book II. —Th e Abnormal Action of the Mechanism. —Chapter 1. Introduction
—The Psychology of the Future; 2. How to be Pursued; 3. Objections and
Objectors; 4. Precautions in Research ; 5. Prepossession and Dominant Idea;
6. How we Know; 7. Scientific Evidence; 8. The Plan Proposed.
Book III.—Of Sleep and Dream.—Chapter 1. What Sleep Is; 2. The
Physiology of Sleep ; 3. The Mental Condition of Sleep ; 4. The Seat of
Sleep; 5. Of Dream; 6. TheMaterialMechanismofDreamj 7. The Psycho¬
logy of Dream; 8. The Phenomena of Dream ; 9. The Philosophy of Dream ;
10. Conclusions.
BookIV.—The PhenomenaofDeliriumandlnsanity.—Chapter 1. Delirium;
2. Insanity.
Book V. The Phenomena of Somnambulism.—Chapter 1. Introduction ; 2.
Somnambulism ; 3. Natural Somnambulism ; 4. Artificial Somnambulism ;
5. ThePhenomena of Artificial Somnambulism ; 6. The Physiology of Somnam¬
bulism ; 7. The Psychology of Somnambulism.
Book VI.—Supersensuous Perception.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. The
Phenomena of Supersensuous Perception; 2. The Physiology and Psychology
of Supersensuous Perception.
Book VII.—Trance.—Introduction ; Chapter 1. The Phenomenaof Trance ;
2. The Physiology and Psychology of Trance.
Book VIII.—Psychism. — Introduction; Chapter 1. Objections and
Objectors; 2, The Witnesses; 3. Psychic Force; 4. The Methods of Inves¬
tigation ; 5. The Phenomena of Psychism ; 6. The Psychic ; 7. The Physio¬
logy of Psychic Force; 8. The Directing Intelligence; 9. Phenomena of
Psychism; 10. More Phenomena of Psychism; 11. Other Phenomena of
Psychism; 12. Communicated Phenomena; 13. The Physiology and Psy¬
chology of Psychism.
Book IX.—The Argument.—Chapter 1. The Summing up; 2. Conclusions.
LONGMAN AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW.
Just Published.
Price One Shilling. Cloth. Red edges.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Narrating how a Clergyman prayerfully and earnestly inquired into Spirit¬
ualism, and setting forth his experience.
With a dedication to
The REV. SIR WILLIAM DUNBAR, BART.,
BY
LISETTE MAKDOUGALL GREGORY,
Dealing with some of the difficulties of the Clergy in relation to Spiritualism
The Spiritualist newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Now ready. Cloth. Pp. 234. Five Shillings.
A FORECAST OF THE RELIGION OF THE FUTURE.
Being Short Essays on some Important Questions on Religious
Philosophy.
By W. W. CLARK.
Contents :—The Philosophy of Evil and Suffering—Conscience : Its Place
and Function — Religion and Dogma—-Psychism and Spiritualism — The
Philosophy of Inspiration and Revelation—Christianity: Its Place and Human
Elements.
London : Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Will be published in a Pew Days.
Price 2s. 6d., Crown 8vo. Cloth. Red Edges,
MESMERISM, WITH HINTS FOR BEGINNERS,
By Captain John Jambs
(Formerly of the Ninetieth Light Infantry).
A text-book by an author who has had thirty years’ experience in
I \ i Mesmerism.
!)! The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
111 Price Two Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Red Edges.
lj | ' SPIRITUALISM.
ifjRS) By P. P. Alexander, M.A.;
| i Author of Mill and Carlyle, Moral Causation, etc.
i / j This work contains among other items of interest a record of phenomena
It I observed at seances by the author, and a close criticism of some of the writ-
K i ings of Professor Tyndall about Spiritualism.
I (| * “ Mr. Alexander is unquestionably a very clever writer. ”—Saturday Review,
|u The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
May 9, 1879.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHO¬
LOGY, MESMERISM, ANTHROPO¬
LOGY, AND BIOLOGY.
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office, 38, Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has
been rented on the premises of the National Association of
Spiritualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist News¬
paper and publishing business are not in any way connected
with each other.]
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crooks, F.R.8. The best work
ever published to scientifically demonstrate the reality
of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Benton. la this
extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to
reveal to him by vision events connected with the early
history of geological specimens. These sensitives thus
saw the Mastodon and other extinct animals as if living
and moving before them; they likewise saw the scenes
by which these prehistoric animals were surrounded.
The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions
of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation
of each. The book is illustrated with numerous engrav¬
ings, drawn by the sensitives as the visions passed
before their eyes. The substance of a review of this
book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there
is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants
who would not cheat him. The question as to the
reliability of the narratives thereforenarrows itself down
to the question of the reliability of clairvoyance, which,
when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate
results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary
communication should be established, it will be by
means of clairvoyance or some other of the latent and
little understood spiritual powers in man. Three vols.
ii-ls. j or 8s. per single volume.
WORKS BT ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS,
The'1 Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ ..76
The Seer. „ III. ,, . ,76
The Reformer. „ IV. ,, . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . 7 6
Arabnla, or Divine Guest . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology . .60
Answers to Ever-recurrring Questions from the People. 7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .36
Harbinger of Health . , . . .76
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer (Memoranda) . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . .36
Penetralia j Containing Harmonial Answers . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . .60
The Inner Life: or? Spirit Mysteries Explained . 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brains and Nerves. .70
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . .60
Tale of a Physician; or Seeds and Fruits of Crime . 5 0
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .26
Conjugal Love, Truth v. Theology . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . ..76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS.
Oriental Religion (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little
book, recommended by The Spiritualist news¬
paper . . . . . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . ..50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing
interesting particulars and legends relating to
Buddhism . . . . . . 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . , . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale
Owen . . . . . . .76
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the
Zulus, by the Rev Henry Gallaway, M.D. In six
parts . . . . . . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into
English, with Preliminary Essays and Explana¬
tory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and S .iperstitions
interpreted by Comparative Mythology, by John
Fiske, M.A. . , ... . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an
Indian Officer . . . . . .60
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into
English from the Chinese Classes, by James Legge,
D.D., LL.D 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged)
Explanation of the Mysteries of Modern Spirtual-
ism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital
Photogiaphy, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Anaes¬
thesia, and Nervous Congestions, by Robert H.
Collyer, M.D. . . . . . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P.
Brown, Secretary of the Legation of the United
States of America at Constantinople . .10
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia,
North Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin
Thorpe. In three vols. . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahom-
med. Translated into English immediately from
the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Price Five Shillings, Cr. 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges,
The new book by
"M.A. (OXON),” on
PSYOHOGRAPHY.
Illustrated with Diagrams.
SYNOPSIS OP CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the subject.
Preface.
Introduction.
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbd—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That attested by the senses :—
1. —Of Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Bams, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. —Of Hearing.—Evidence of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr.
George King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls,
Baroness Von Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.
Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan, Epes Sargent, James O’ Sargent, John
Wetherbee, H. B. Storer, C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee
with Watkins.
II. —From the Writing of Languages unknown to the
Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence ©f Hon. R. Dale Owen and Mr.
Blackburn (Slade) ; Dutch, German, French, Spanish,
Portuguese (Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame
Blavatsky (Watkins); Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timay-
enis (Watkins); Chinese (Watkins).
III. —From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Prepa¬
ration of the Writing :—
Psychics and Conjurers Contrasted; Slade before the
Research Committee of the British National Association of
Spiritualists. Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.;
Evidence of—Rev. J. Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J.
Seaman (Slade); Writing within Slates securely screwed
together—Evidence of Mrs. Andrews and J. Mould; Dicta¬
tion of Words at the Time of the Experiment—Evidence of—
A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh Wedgwood, J.P.,
Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wyld, M.D., Miss
Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside a
Closed Box—Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of
Circumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck
were conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with
White Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the subject of the
Prosecution of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and
Professor Barnett, F R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: its Mode of Operation—^Evidence
of C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of
Hensleigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelliaenoe—Dr. Collyer’s Theory; Dr.
George Wyld’s Theory; The Oculist’s Theory; The Spirit¬
ualist’s Theory.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Charter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past—
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Appa¬
ritions—The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox,
J. Koons, the Davenport Brothers, D. D. Hume, and
Ferdinand Jencken—Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II. — Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—
Scientific Theory of Spirit Manifestations—Kant—Emerson
—Socrates—Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III.—Materialisation of Spirits atfMoravia, N.Y.,
and Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Medium-
ship of Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—
Katie Bang—John King.
Chapter IV.—Materialisations in England—Mediumship
of Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Ex¬
periments—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V.—Scientific Investigation—Experiments by
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialec¬
tical Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI.—Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Sub¬
stances P — Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits —
Immortality in the Bible—Augustine—Descartes—Spinoza
—Herbert Spencer—Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power
over Matter—Testimony of S, C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII.—The Priority of Spirit — The Senses—
Testimony of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine
of Nature—Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VIII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship — Her own
Account—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes,
Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dumphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmore,
Mrs, Ross-Church, Miss Kislingbury—Conclusive Experi¬
ments by Mr. Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr.
C. Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Rev. S. Watson, and Rev. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisation Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seer-
ship —Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge
— Bacon — Luther—Calvin — Plutarch—Charles Bonnet-
Materialisation of Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII.—The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomenal
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in
God — Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill,
Spencer, Lewes, and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine
Personality.
Chapter XV.—The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter XVI.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—
The Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Mora'ity — Sin
Punishes Itself — A Moral Creed — The Teachings of
Spiritualism.
Chapter XVII.—The Message of Spiritualism—Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life—Humboldt—
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections
to Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe—
James Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts,
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable—Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—
Concluding Reflections.
London, W,C, Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
iii
Price 6s, Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE YEIL.”
A collection of choice poems and prize essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritu¬
alists. A useful book to place in the public libraries, and to
present or send to those who are unacquainted with Spiritu¬
alism. It contains much about the religious aspect of
Spiritualism (given through the writing mediumship of
‘‘ M.A. (Oxon),” and is one of the most refined and elegant
works ever printed in connection with the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“ 01 Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through
the trance-mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L, Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
V. — The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-
mediumship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
VI. —Angel-Guarded.
VII. —An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens.
How the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist,
Sapsea. Mr. Stollop reveals a Secret! A Majestic Mind
Severely Tried: Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peck-
craft and Miss Keep: Critical Comments.
VIII. —The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon
(Miss Treherne) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-medium¬
ship of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women, By William
White, Author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam. By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other
Animals. By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV. —To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A.,
Oxon.”
XVII. —Thy Love. By Florence Marryat,
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adelma Von
Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem Spiritual¬
ism. By Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism. By
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kisling¬
bury from the German of Schiller.
XXVII.—The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Chris¬
tianity. Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxon.”
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat,
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes
Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev.
C. Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIII.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXX LV.—The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“M.A., Oxon.”
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—The Prediction. By Alice Wortherington
(Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritu¬
alism.
XXXVIII—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in
India. By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic )
by Emily Kislingbury.
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W. H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Calder.
XU.—Dirge. By Mrs. Eric Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey,
XLIIL—Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation
to Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV.—A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Syinfealiaf Newspaper Branch Office.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id. • Post free for l|d.; or six copies post free for
6d.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW,
Formerly issued Quarterly at 2s. 6d., is now published
Monthly at 6d., or 7s. per annum in advance, post free.
CONTENTS TOR MAY.
The Existing Breach between Modern Culture and the
Popular Faith; by John S. Farmer—An English Seeress of
the 17th Century; by J. W. F.—Spiritualism in Chili; by
Perigrinus—Some Spiritual Experiences of the Celebrated
Italian Physician, Jerome Cardan; by A. M. H. W.—A Priori
Proof ofithe Probable Truth of Spiritualism; by Alex. Munro,
M.D.—Progression by Antagonism; by M.—The Future of
Spiritualism; by Thomas Shorter, ft
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Glasgow : Hay Nisbet and Co., 62, Ropework-lane.
P. 0. Orders payable to Hay Nisbet and Co., as above.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of thS best quality.
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can
be given. 6 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.W
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST]
May 9, 1879.
Just Published.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo,
richly gilt, :
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS
BY WILLIAM H. HAKBISON'.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed by Florence Claxton
and the Author.
Contents.
Past 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the News¬
paper Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The
Castle.—5. The Lay of the Fat Man.—6. ThePoetry of Science.
—7. How Hadji A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter
from Hadji A1 Shacabac, a gentleman who visited London
on business connected with a Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha
Ben Buckram, Chief of the College of Howling Dervishes at
Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the Broad-Brimmed Hat.—
9. St. Bride’s Bay.—10. The Lay of the Market Gardener.—
11. “Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12 Our Raven.—13. Material¬
istic Religion.—14. The Lay of the Photographer.—16. How
to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—16. The Song of
the Mother-in-Law.—17. Wirbel-beioegung.—18. “ Poor Old
Joe!”—19. The Human Hive.—20. The Lay of the Mace-
Bearers.—21. A Love Song.—22. A Vision.—23. “Under the
Limes.”—24. The Angel of Silence-
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaw.
25. The Public Analyst.—28. General Grant’s Reception at
Folkestone.—27. The Rifle Corps.—28. Tony’s Lament.—29.
The July Bug.—30. The Converted Carman.
Opinions on the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in
reviewnearly a column long, says :—“Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming
a thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr.
Harrison, exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the
praise of all who are not too stupid to enjoy an innocent
laugh. Not that his muse restricts herself only to such
lighter utterances ; on the contrary, some of his poems
touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings of our common
humanity. . . . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative of his
adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years.
. . . The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome
from which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The
Morning Post says of The Wobblejaw Ballads:—“Noone can
help laughing at them,” and it says that the rhymes are
pitched in “something like the same key as The Bon
Gaultier Ballads or The Biglow Papers, with an appreciably
successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability. . . . Occasionally we find verse
cf great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure
poetic gilt.”
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour
should not fail to read The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings.
Written, printed, published and reviewed by William H.
Harrison (38, Great Russell-street). Both the verses and the
short essays are really funny, and in some of the latter there
is a vein of genial satire which adds piquancy to the fun.
The Lay of the Newspaper Editor is capital, if rather severe,
and so is The Lay of the Mace-bearers ; but one of the most
laughable bits is the Turk’s account of how he went to be
photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably good verse. . . . Some of the
metrical legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be
sung at the meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or
fifteen years ago. Mr. Harrison, however, knows where to
plant his fun, and an accurate scientific mind like his can
make jokes with success. ... To all who wish to read a
pleasant volume magnificently got up as a gift-book, we
commend The Lazy Lays.”
From The BooTcseller.
“ An odd but most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and otheisin prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original,
and not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases
alluded to, and the imprint bears that the work is published
‘a.d. 1877 (popular chronology); a.m. 6877 (Torquemada) ;
a.m. 60,800,077 (Huxley).’ We believe that our readers
may derive a little amusement from a perusal of the
volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of
Which are in verse and others in prose, some scientific,
others social, but all of them excellent. . . . The Lazy Lays
will make excellent and amusing reading for an occasional
spare half-hour. . . . They contain nothing unrefined or in
bad taste.” '
From The Dublin University Magazine.
“ How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photo¬
graphed, is well done. . . . Bound in a cover of somewhat
powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
“Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar
in connection with photographic and other scientific
literature, has considerable facility of versification, and
deals, in pleasant and humorous mood, with many scientific
follies which are better laughed down than gravely dis¬
puted.” ■
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with
a due foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has
produced a most welcome book. . . . ‘ How Hadji A1
Shacabac was Photographed ’ will be sure to make every
reader roar with laughter.”*
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be
expected that his subjects should bear some trace of this
peculiar idiosyncrasy, and indeed they are as free and easy
as himself. , . . The poems are all characterised by smooth¬
ness and rhythmical swing. . . . Theworkis very elaborately
bound in cloth and gilt. ... A gorgeous design upon the
cover. ... If our readers wish to encourage laziness they
have a most deserving object in a very clever and versatile
member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier,
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays,
Mr. William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its
appearance and entertaining in its contents. . . . The author
is imbued with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all
while offending none
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison#
a well-known contributor to the London and provincia1
press, and editor of The Spiritualist. . . . Many of the
humorous poems reminds us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The
Lay of the Photographer, The Lay of the Mace-bearers, and some
of The Wobblejaw Ballads would not have been unworthy of
Barham himself. Some of the shorter poems are exquisite,
and there pervade through the whole a religious sentiment
and poetie feeling which will make them acceptable to most
readers.”
From the Daily Northern Whig (Belfest).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘ How Hadji A1 Shacabac
was Photographed.’ It is an admirable addition to our not
too extensive comic literature. The story is one of which
extracts would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely
humorous. . . . Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-
book of an amusing nature, will find what they want in The
Lazy Lays.”
From The Bristol Daily Post,
“ A curious collection of verses and prose essays of unequal
merit. . . . The serious and sentimental verses belong to
the type of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.”
From The Kensington News.
“ It is after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain,
or any of those merry souls who do quite as much good in
their day and generation as the authors of the most serious
works. The Lays are always original, sometimes serious,
generally comic, but never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“ It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty ;
full of lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts,
abounding in tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit
and humour; and one that may be read many times over. .
. . The get-up of the book is very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled ‘ The Wobblejaw Ballads,’
which appeared in the columns of this paper a short time
ago, and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B.
An irate member of the Town Council officially called the
attention of the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the
burlesques in the ‘Wobblejaw Ballads,’ but the members
assembled laughed at the matter, and proceeded to the next
business. The Mayor said that he did not mind them.3 . . .
“ It contains some very choice poems and prose essays, is
bound in cloth richly gilt, and has an original design of no
ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of the
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C.
Price 6d.; post free, 7|d.; cloth.
Prize Essays.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS OF spirit¬
ualism UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND
RELIGIOUS CONDITION OF SOCIETY. Two Essays by
Anna Blackwell and Mr. G. F. Green,
These Essays won the First and Second Gold Medals oe
the British National Association oe Spiritualists.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
The trapped medium ; or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A,S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Proto¬
plaster, in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It
is an excellent little book for distribution among scientific
men and disbelievers in Spiritualism generally. A review
of it in The Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet
displays real genius. Price 6d.; post free, 6id. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
AT MRS. PARKER’S, 3, BLOOMSBURY
PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.,
a Philosophical and Developing Circle is being formed.
Those wishing to join will please send in their names. Terms
on application.
Mrs. Parker’s healing power is rapidly developing into
clairvoyance; she is replying to sealed questions when con¬
ditions favour. Office hours from 12 to 6 o’clock.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on ihe
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena
for a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner
with the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols., price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London : Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size
of those of The Engineer newspaper), strongly and hand¬
somely bound in one, in half calf, red edges. They contain
records relating to Spiritualism in Great Britain from the end
of the year 1869 to the end of 1872, and ai tides and letters
by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F. Varley, The
Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of how
the Royal Society and British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr.
Crookes’s papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism,
as the Royal Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery
of lightning conductors. Very scarce. These two volumes
cannot be had separately. I’rice, carriage paid to any rail¬
way station in the United Kingdom, £1 10s.
London : W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
OB
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late War. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University.
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for its
quality and size, the cheapest large work ever published in
this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 6s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
contents;
CHAPTER I:—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism-
Sensations—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep—The Sleep
or Mesmeric State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-
Walkers—Phenomena of the Sleep—^Divided Consciousness
—Senses Affected—Insensibility to Pain.
CHAPTER II:—Control Exercised by the Operator over
the Subject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feel¬
ings in the Look and Gesture—Effect of Music—^Truthful¬
ness of the Sleeper—Various Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep
Caused by Silent Will ; and at a Distance—Attraction
Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking State of Com¬
mands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER HI:—Sympathy—Community of Sensations»
of Emotions—Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhi¬
bitions of Doubtful Advantage—Sympathy with the By¬
standers—Thought Reading—Sources of Error—Medica
Intuition—Sympathetic Warnings—Sympathies and Anti¬
pathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force or Influence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision,
without the Eyes—Vision of Near Object: through Opaque
Bodies ; at a Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in
Regard to Absent Persons—Retrovision—Introvision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc.,
Predicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of
the Seer—Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting
Others—Spontaneous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—
Spontaneous Retrovision and Prevision—Peculiarities of
Speech and of Consciousness in Mesmerised Persons—
Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI :—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-
Psychology and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Pheno¬
mena of Suggestions in the Conscious or Waking State—
Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects—Mr. Lewis’s Method
and its Results—The Impressible State—Control Exercised
by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism—The
Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The
Subject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII :—Trance, Natural and Accidental;
Mesmeric—Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col.
Townsend—Fakeer—Extasis—Extatics not all Impostors—
Luminous Emanations — Extasis often Predicted—M.
Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the Spiritual World.
CHAPTER VIII:—Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Phre¬
nology—Effects of Teaching the Head in the Sleep—Variety
in the Phenomena—Suggestions—Symnathy—There are
Cases in which these Act, and others in which they do not
Act—Phenomena Described—The Lower Animals Susceptible
of Mesmerism—Fascination Among Animals—Instinct—
Sympathy of Animals—Snail Telegraph Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the
Human Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is
Identical with the Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the
Influence which Causes the Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylio
or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis Artificially Produced—
Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications of Mesmerism—
Physiological, Therapeutical, etc—Treatment of Insanity,
Magic, Divination, Witchcraft, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Tracea to Natural Causes—Apparitions—Second Sight
is Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X:—An Explanation of the Phenomena
Attempted. or Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally
Diffused, Certainly iiixists, and is Probably the Medium of
Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its Characters—Difficulties of
the Subject—Effects of Odyle— Somnambulisn—Suggestion—
Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—Odylio Eman¬
ations—bdylic Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcraft—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc.,
Induce Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid
Perception of the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of
Science—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints
—Conditions of Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure
—Mesmerism a Serious Thing—Cautions to the Student—
Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XH:—Phenomera Observed in the Conscious
or Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an
Impressible State—Mr. Lewis’s Experiments With and With¬
out Suggestion— Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments—Cases—
Conscious or Waking Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or
by Concentration—Major Buckley’s Method—Oases—The
Magic Crystal Induces Waking Lucidity, when Gazed at—
Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XHI:—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—
Cases—Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the
Author Thrown into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced with¬
out the Knowledge of the Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—
Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep—Sympathic Clairvoyance in
the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time—Cases: Sir J. Frank¬
lin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovi ion.
CHAPTER XIV :—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travel¬
ling Clairvoyance—Cases—Singular Vision of Mr. D.—
Letters of Two Clergymen, with Cases—Clairvoyance of
Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV ;—Trance—Extasis—Cases—Spontaneous
Mesmeric Phenomena—Apparitions—Predictions,
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Con¬
cluding Remarks, and Summary.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborh Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and So. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W, Alien, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
