Begistebbd as a Newspaper
&N© J 0 U ^ >r 3 !< 03^ 'Pj^YdftO L<0G[ldST< g(@|pp|
toxflj S^mtalism In (&xmt §niam,
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosquc c.*fi Houle
vard des Capucines, and 5, Rue Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais Royal. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia
ROME: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazlonale. LIEGE: 37, Rue
Florimont. BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 84, Russell-street-South. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co.
NEW YORK: 51, East Twelfth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: “Banner of Light” Office, g, Montgomery-place. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 325, North Ninth-street. WASHINGTON : No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 341. (VOL. XIV.—No. 10.) LONDON I FRIDAY* MARCH 7f 1879. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Eontents.
Christian Oocultism, or Esoteric Christianity. By George
Wyld, Esq., M.D., Edr, 109
The Mediumshfp of the Leader of Brahmoism 113
The Hydes ville Manifestations 115
The Ancient and Universal Belief in Spirits. By Henry G.
Atkinson, F.G.S., Author of Letters to Miss Mar-
tineau      115
Correspondence:—^Explanations—Astrology—A Seance in
Newcastle and Thoughts thereupon  116
Medico-Psychological Observations. By W. Hitchman,
M.E.O.S       ... 117
Sunday Services at the Cavendish Booms. The Heaven
of-the Spiritualist     118
The National Association of Spiritualists     119
Private/Seemces        ••• 119
Spirit ldentity   ...   ... ... ... 119
The Dead Feast of the Kol-Folk. Chota Nagpoor. (Poetry.) 120
To Correspondents.,,       120
Paragraph:—Spiritualism and Lunacy 120
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record oj the Progress of the Science and Ethics oj
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-A- oldest ’Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica-
ions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.: Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the "Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, hut has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstei n (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess ox
Caithness ;\His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenherg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, Fresident of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Miss Florence Marryat; Dr. George Wyld: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksauof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon,M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Cxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”) ; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S. ;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling.
oury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
in the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street,
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should he addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper BranchOffice, 88, Great Russell-street London, W.C.
X> APHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC
JL\l AND EPHEMERIS for 1879, containing predictions of
events and the weather for every month, &c., &e., with a large
hieroglyphic. Post free, 7d.; or with Ephemeris, 13d.
Raphael’s Hieroglyphic (1878) foreshadowed the Lancashire
quarrels, the Royal deaths, the great wrecks, the British arma¬
ments, &c.
RAPHAEL’S GUIDE TO ASTROLOGY, Vol. I., by which
any person may calculate their own nativity. Cloth gilt, 3s.
London: J. E. Catty, 12, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
CHANGE OF ARRANGEMENTS.
The Offices of the Association will be open between the
hours of 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. only, on all week-days, except
Saturday, when they will be open between the hours of 2 p.m.
and 6 p.m.
CALENDAR FOR MARCH, 1879.
Monday, Urd.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Paper by Dr. George Wyld on “ Christian
Occultism.”
Wednesday, 5th.—Soirde Committee at 5 p.m.
„ „ House and Offices Committee at
5.30 p.m.
Friday, 7th, and every succeeding Friday.—Experi¬
mental Research Committee at 6.80 p.m.
Tuesday, TUh.—Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting- at 6.30 p.m.
Monday, 17th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Paper by Mr. Alexander Calder on “ The
New Era."
Wednesday, Wth.—Library Committee at 4.30 p.m.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
RESEARCH COMMITTEE.
TO MEDIUMS:’
This Committee, having in their charge the “ Weighing
Apparatus ” presented to the Association by Mr. C. Blackburn
for the purpose of obtaining absolute evidence of certain phe¬
nomena occurring in the presence of “physical” mediums,
invite such mediums, public or private, to communicate with
them with a view to experiments with the apparatus in
question. Desmond G. Fitzgerald,
(Chairman of Committee).
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Akerman-road, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to— H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
The Religion op Spiritualism.
MR. J. WILLIAM FLETCHER
Will LECTURE
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING,
At the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer Street, W.
Admission Free.
Lecture begins at 7.30. Doors closed at 7.45.
MR. and MISS DIETZ desire to announce
the following Engagements:—Hastings, Gensing Hall,
Afternoon and Evening, January 29. Richmond Parochial
Society, February 4. Plymouth Mechanics’ Institute, February
12 (second time this season). Redruth Institution, February
13. Truro Institution, February 14 (second time this season).
Leamington Institute, February 25. Finchley (Church end),
February 27. Croydon Literary Institution, March 6 (second
time). Favourable terms arranged with Institutes en route.
For particulars address Mr. Frank Dietz, 54, Denbigh-street,
London, S.W.
Mr. and Miss Dietz also have to announce their Third Series
of Recitations, to be given at Langham Hall, 43, Great Portland-
street, London, on the following Wednesday evenings, viz.:—
March 12th, April 9th, May 14th, June 11th. Tickets 5s., 3s.,
2s., and Is.
N.B.—The Second Recitation of the Series will be given on
Friday, February 28, instead of Ash Wednesday, February 26.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL REVIEW.
No. 4. January. Price 2s. 6d.
CONTENTS :—
I.—Is Immortality a Delusion ? By Epes Sargent.
II.—Sister Celeste. By J. C. Earle.
III. —Spiritual Philosophy in Relation to Death and Spirit Life.
By Rev. J. Page Hopps.
IV. —Inspiration. No. 2. By Mrs. De Morgan.
V.—Reminiscences of George Thompson. By his Daughter,
Mrs. Nosworthy,
VI.—Zetalethes, the Truthseeker. By Miss Greenfield.
VII.—The Mound-Builders. By William Denton.
VIII.—Montanism.
Materialistic Mysticism—A Geologist’s Confession—The Seat
of Evil'
E. W. Allen, U, Ave Maria-lane, E,0
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF
GREAT BRITAIN,
11, Chandos Street, Cavendish Square, London, W
President—Mr. Serjeant Cox.
This Society was established in February, 1875, for the pro¬
motion of psychological science in all its branches. Its object
is the investigation of the forces, organic and intelligent, that
move and direct the material mechanism of man. Communi¬
cations as to alleged phenomena are invited by the Committee
of inquiry who hold investigation sittings without subscribing
to or recognising any particular theory or belief.
All particulars may he obtained on application to
FRANCIS K. MUNTON, Honorary Secretary.
Willesden, N.W.
ALLAN KARDEC (Blackwell’s Translations).
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK (1858). From the 120th thousand.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK (1861). From the 85th thousand.
HEAVEN AND HELL (1863). From the 60th thousand
Price 7s. 8d. Trubner & Co. London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY DISCUSSION MEETINGS.
SESSION, 1878-9.
Feb. 3.—Miss Kislingbury, “Apparitions of the Living.”
Feb. 17.—Adjourned Discussion on Miss Kislingbury’s Paper.
March 3.—Dr. Wyld, “ Christian Occultism.”
March 17.—Mr. Calder, “ The New Era.”
April 7.—Mr. Morell Theobald, “Experiences in the Home
Circle,” No. 2.
April 21.—The Rev. W. Miall, “ Exoteric Observation in Spirit¬
ualism.”
MayS.—Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.. “ Recent Research in
the Phenomena of Spiritualism."
May. 19.) These days are purposely left free for the discussion
June 2.) of any subjects of importance that may arise.
June 16.—Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A.,- “Review of the Session.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
To Her Majesty’s Military and Naval Forces.
Everything of the test quality,
At special prices to Spiritualists, to whom references can be
given. 5 per cent for cash.
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK, LONDON, N.V).
EVERYBODY HIS OWN PRINTER.
THE “MODEL” PRINTING PRESS
Is a self-inking one and can easily he worked by a child
of ten.
Its Simplicity is its recommendation.
You will find it a great source of interest and recreation
besides saving you time and money.
Press, including Type and all accessories, from £5.
C. G. SQUINTANI & Co.
Show Rooms:—a Ludgate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
Send for an illustrated pamphlet, “HOW TO PRINT,”
containing an abridged history of the art of printing, general
catalogue of printing materials, specimens of type, &c., <fcc.
post free, seven stamps.
J. TURNER,
LOCKSMITH, BELLHANGER, AND GASFITTER,
Stove and Range Maker,
1, HIGH STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Every description of Patent Close Fire Kitcheners repaired
and fixed.
Hot Water, Steam, and Bath Fittings.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. Current Accounts opened with persons
properly introduced, and Interest allowed on the minimum
monthly balances. No charge made for keeping accounts..
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 p.m.
A Pamphlet with full particulars on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
Lunacy law reform association,
64, Berners-street, London. Office Hours from 10 to 4,
and Tuesday Evening from 6 to 7, Closed on Saturdays.
ii
THE SPIBITUALIST.
Maech 7, 1879.
PBITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Pr’endtnt.
Alex. Caider, Esq., 1, Hereford-gquare, South Kensington, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1. Bernard-villas, Unper Norwood.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, 'W.
Fitz-Cerald, Desmond G-> M.S.Tel.E., 6, Akerman-road, Biixton*
S.W.
Honvwood. Mrs.. S3, Warwlck-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings. E.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adsbead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Barkas, T. P.. Central Exchange. Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Barrett, F., The Firs, Leacroft, Staines.
Beeby, Mrs., 2, Outram-road, Addiscombe.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.1
Blnney, F A., 24, St Ann s-sonare. Manchester
Bonwick, J.. F.R.G.S.. Vale of Health, Hampstead, N.
Chapman, .Tohn, 10. Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H.. 94, Cornwall-gardens. Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., late of H.M.S. “Malabar,” Portsmouth.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, S, Portman-street, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
EOmands, T. H.. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs., 59, Tufnell-park-road, Holloway, N.W.
Eno, J. C., Silver House, Champion-hill.
Fitton, R., 84, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs. D. G., 6. Akerman-road. Brixton, S.W.
Glendinning, A., Grove-road. New Southgate, N.
Green, G, F., Hale Cottage, Sheoter’s-hill. Kent.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20. Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hunt, Miss Hannah, 14, Quarry-street, Guildford.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart , Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Joad, G. C., Oakfleld, Wimbledon. S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road. Liverpool.
Lowe, Mrs., 64. Berners-street, W.
Mnltby, Mrs., 61, Gower-street, W.C.
March, R. A.. Heaton Villas. 71, Greenwood-road, Dalston.
Miall, Rev. W., 71, Richmond-road. Dalston.
Morse,.! J., Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
.Nosworthy, Mrs., 14, Cavendish-road, '[Blundell Sands, near
Liverpool.
Newton, W„ 11, Mitre-court, Temple, E.C.
Pearce, Richard. 8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, O.. 15. Harnur-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Pickersgill, W. C., 3, Blandford-square, N.W.
Reimers. Christian, 47, Mornington-road Regent’s-park.
Stock, St. George. M.A., 8. Museum-villas. Oxford. *
Theobald, Mnrell. 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Turner ,J. P., Avenue-road, Leamington.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Malda-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Meanwood Grange, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Caider, Esq., 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.. 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss TT., 1. The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withail, H., J., The Elms, St. John's-road, Brixton, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Alex. Caider, Esq., J, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Auditors.
J. W. Gray, Esq, G. H. Potts, Esq, Morell Theobald, Esq.
Secretary.
eliss Burke, 38, GreatRussell-street, Bloomsbury, ■
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Mme. de Veh, 1, Reich Strasse, Dresden, Germany.
Signor Sebastiano Fenzi, Firenze, Italy.
Herr Constantin Delhez, Wien, Austria.
J. M. Peebles,Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, La Tresorerie, Wimille, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq-, Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, San Francisco, TJ.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, The Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne
Professor Friedrich Zollner, Leipzig, Germany.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor, C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 84, Russell-street South, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 5, Reu Neuve des Petits Champs, Palais-Roy 1,
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 684, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,I96, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. Leon Favre Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Villa
Bourieres, St. Maur les Fosses, pres Paris.
G. L. Ditson, Esq^. M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J.M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Bordeaux, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 11, Rue Andrieux, Quartier de 1’Europe,
Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq.,9 ,Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre. Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, Rue des Palais 187, Schaerbeck, Lez-
Bruxelles.
Lieut -Col. P. Jacoby, 11 ,Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z, Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs. Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Waidron Edge, Duppas-hill
Croydon.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eppyjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs.:Hallock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, 2, Vico del Vasto, Palazzo del Vasto, Chlaja,
Naples.
Dr. Puel, 78, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Berks T. Hutchinson, Esq., 2, New-street, Cape Town, South
Africa.
Miss Lizzie Doten, The Pavilion, Tremont-street, Boston.
H. J. Newton, Esq., 128, West 48rd-street, New York,
T. Blyton, Esq., 58, Sigdon-road, Dalston, E.
AUied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Wharmby, 45 Kensington, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secre¬
tary, T. Biyton, Esq., 53, Sigdon-road, Dalston-lane,
Dalston, London, E.
Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., Mr. A. J. Smart, 22, Moira-
place, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 84, 28, Madrid, Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad;Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Almedo, Mexico.
Sociedad Espirita di Bogota, Colombia, South America. Presi¬
dent, Senor Manuel Jose Angarita.
THE BEITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
Government prosecutions eor
MEDICAL HERESY: a Verbatim Report of the Case
“ Regina v. Tebb.” Dedicated to the Board of St. Pancras
Guardians, London. With letters from the Right Hon. W. E.
Gladstone, M.P., the Right Hon. John Bright, M.P., and others.
Forty pp., Price 2d., or Is. 9d. per dozen, or 12s. per 100. This
pamphlet should be circulated largely during elections of
Guardians and Members of Parliament. Published by Edward
W. Allen. 11. Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE,
A Mystical Poem, in Songs, Sonnets, and Verse, by
ELLA DIETZ.
“ Now will I go and walk the wide earth round.
And tell to every soul that I do meet,
The only way that true love may be found.
And how, when found, of all things good and sweet
It is most blest, most holy, most divine.”
Cloth, small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. London, W.C. Spiritualist
Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. 6d.
Inspirational Poetry.
‘‘POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE.”
BY LIZZIE DOTEN
With a Preiaoe describing the spiritual state oj trance
during which some oj the poems were given.
CONTENTS.
Past I,
I. The Prayer of the Sorrowing.—II. The Song of Truth.—III.
The Embarkation.—IV. Kepler’s Vision.—V. Love and Latin.—
VI. The Song of the North.—VII. The Burial of Webster.—VIII.
The Parting of Sigurd and Gurda.—IX. The Meeting of Sigurd
and Gurda.
Part II.
X. The Spirit Child.—XI. Reconciliation.—XII. Hope for the
Sorrowing.—XIII. Compensation.—XIV. The Eagle of Freedom.
—XV. Mistress Glenare.—XVI. Little Johnny.—XVII. “Birdie’s
Spirit Song.”—XVIII. Mv Spirit Home.—XIX. “I still Live.”—
XX Life.—XXL Love.—XXII. “For a” that.”—XXIII. Words
o’ Cheer XXIV. Resurrexi.—XXV. The Prophecy of Vala.
XXVI. The Kingdom.—XXVII. The Cradle or Coffin—XXVIII.
The Streets of Baltimore—XXIX. The Mysteries of Godliness.
—XXX. Farewell to Earth;
Also, by the same Authoress, a companion volume, price 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER,
TEST MEDIUM AND CLAIRVOYANT,
4, BLOOMSBURY PLACE, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON.
Hours—Twelve till Five.
MR. F. OMERIN,
Having made many rapid and permanent cures of Gout,
Rheumatism, and other painful maladies, is prepared to visit
patients. Address,
MR. OMERIN,
5, NORTHUMBERLAND STREET, STRAND, LONDON.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
Cl, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Thursday and Saturday
evenings from 8 o’clock for reception of friends.
Address as above.
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER. For terms and dates address
—Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby.
Agent for all kinds of Spiritual literature.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 178, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or the provinces. Address, 35, Biurton-road, Clap¬
ton-park, E.
MISS MANCELL, Spiritual Clairvoyant, 45,
Jubilee-street, Commereial-road, London, E. De¬
veloping Circle every Monday evening, at eight 0 clock. Volun¬
tary contributions. Private stances attended. Application
by letter in the first instance.
MRS. WOODFORDE, Developing and Heal-
ing. Medical advice to ladies and children. Terms
modified to suit circumstances. Days and hours of business—
Mondays,-Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, from 1p.m.
to 5 p.m. 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
RS. M. G. PARKER, MESMERIC
HEALER and DEVELOPING MEDIUM, 66, War-
wick-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
MRS. MARGARET FOX KANE, of the
Rochester Eox Family, and widow of Dr. Kane, the
first Arctic explorer who went in search of Sir John Franklin
gives Seances at No. 4, Grenville-street, Bruns wick-square,
from 2 to 5, every day except Sunday, and every evening from
8 to 10, except Sunday evening. Engagements can be made
by letter sent to the above address.
CHARACTERS FAITHFULLY DELINE¬
ATED from Hand-Writing, Photos, or Blank Paper
Magnetised by the Breath. Fee, 2s. 6d. Address, Miss Ross,
care of Mrs. Nichols, 32, Fopstone-road, Earl’s-court, S.W.
CURATIVE MESMERISM.—PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (33 years
established), attends Patients and maybe consulted daily from
2 till 5 at his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill,
Kensington. Select lectures and private lessons in the science
of Mesmerism are given by appointment.
MRS. ANNIE LOOMIS, the American Mes¬
meric Healing Clairvoyante, examines and treats the
sick while in a mesmeric sleep.—No. 2, Vernon-place, Blooms-
bury-square, London. Hours 10 to 5. Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday evenings, office hours, owing to press of business,
extended to nine o’clock.
SAMUEL R. QUARMBY, Inspirational
Speaker and Healing Medium. Address, 21, Trafalgar-
street, Ashton-under-Lyne.
A SELECT CIRCLE is in course of forma¬
tion to hold weekly Seances with a Physical Medium.
Applicants wishing to join said circle are requested to send
names and addresses to B. C., care of Miss Burke, 38, Great
Russell-street, W.C.—Each member is expected to contribute
his quota towards suitable remuneration of the Medium, j
NNALI HELLO SPIRIT! SMO IN
ITALIA—Rivista Psicologica di Niceforo Filalete.
Published on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip.
Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
Heaven opened; or, messages
FOR THE BEREAVED FROM OUR LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Given through the mediumship of F. J. Theo¬
bald. Part 1, price 6d., paper cover, “ Heaven Opened,” being
more advanced spirit messages. Part 2, price 6d., paper
cover, “ Heaven Opened.” The two parts bound in one volume,
Cloth Is. The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office
By F. J. Theobald. Second Edition enlarged. Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE, COM
PARED WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A useful Pamphlet for those who shrink from Spiritualism
with the idea that it is unchristian and unscriptural. It shows
(we think successfully) that every form of mediumship, now so
familiar to Spiritualists, is endorsed by Biblical records of
identical experiences.
Also HEAVEN OPENED. Parts 1 and 2, 6d. each. The
two bound in one, Is.—These books, consisting of messages
given by writing mediumship, contain some interesting con¬
versations held between the family circle on earth, and their
group of little ones in their Spirit home.
They are well calculated to comfort bereaved and sorrowing
parents.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
"DRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
tained in Brighton of Messrs Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-road.
WANTED by a Lady, an engagement as
SECRETARY, or to read to a Lady for certain hours
daily (mornings excepted), or some similar position, in return
for hoard and lodging. Must be in the neighbourhood of the
South Kensington Museum.—Address B., care of Miss Burke,
38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
of every month. Price, J franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
tb M. Leymarie.
►SYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
LEAVES FROM MY LIFE, a narrative of
Personal Experiences, with some account of American
Spiritualism, as seen during a twelvemonth’s visit to the
United States. Two Portraits. By J. J. Morse. Price 2s.
From the Author, at Elm Tree-terrace, Uttoxeter-road, Derby
Brighton.—miss wood, 12, Lower
Rock Gardens. Board or apartments. — Terms on
application.
FOLKESTONE. — Comfortable lodgings, on
moderate terms. References to Spiritualists can be
given. E. Newman, 11, St. Michael’s-terrace, Folkestone.
PARIS.—TO SPIRITUALISTS is offered a
comfortable Social Home in a convenient part of the city,
by an English brother. The apartments can only accommodate
four persons. Terms, board and all included, £3 per week
each; or, for two persons £2 10s. per week, if two occupy one
room. Address, S. T., care of M. A. Mallet, 3, Rue de la Cos-
sonnerie, Paris.
jl tl j[|| trf mb Xtf
No. 341.—Vox.ujvie Fourteen; Number Tejnt.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 7th, 1879.
CHRISTIAN OCCULTISM, OR ESOTERIC CHRISTIANITY.
BY GEORGE WYLD, ESQ., M.D., EDR.
The central doctrine taught in this paper is that by His
transfiguration on the Mount, Christ manifested Himself as
the spiritual heavenly and angelic man, and that this mani¬
festation was typical of that which is within the possibility
of those elect few who, living truly the Divine life, can evoke
in ecstatic prayer the hidden, Christ-like spiritual centre of
the soul, and that this act has in many instances been
demonstrated in the history of the Church.
We are told that man was created in the image of God.
If so, then the Spirit of Man and the Spirit of God are of
one essence, and the Spirit of Man is thus the Son of God,
while Jesus of Nazareth, when he became the Christ, was
emphatically the well-beloved Son of God. Jesus, as the Son
of Man, taught the so-called practical or exoteric doctrine of
love to God and love to man as the sum and substance of all
religion and all morality; and Jesus, as the Christ, or Son
of God, taught the esoteric or spiritual interpretation of this
love to God and man. The simple doctrine of love to God
and love to man is sufficient for the ultimate salvation of
all those who sincerely attempt to live the life; but the
esoteric or spiritual doctrine teaches how man, while on this
earth, may fully live the life, and thus at one and the same
time be actually an inhabitant of earth and of heaven.
I desire it to be understood that I have no more doubt of
the historic Jesus Christ than I have of the historic Plato,
St. Paul, or St. Augustine; but, at the same time, I believe
that the word Christ, as used by Bible and early Christian
writers, and by the mystics, signifies that divine* and mira¬
culous spiritual man which we may all possibly become, and
which Jesus of Nazareth permanently was.
The term occultism means the practice of that which is
secret or hidden, and has been generally applied to the prac¬
tice of the secret arts of magic ; and by Christian occultism
is meant the esoteric doctrines of the mystics.
It is believed by some that Jesus Christ revealed to His
beloved disciples secrets regarding his nature and doctrine,
which were not openly taught to the people; but, however
that may be, we know that when Peter, in answer to the
Master’s question, “Whom say ye that I am?” replied,
“ Thou art the Christ, the son of the living God.” Jesus
exclaimed,il Blessed art thou Simon Bar-Jona, for flesh and
blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father who is
in heaven; ” and he charged His disciples that they should
reveal unto no man that He was the Christ.
Again, when Jesus took Peter, and James, and John up
into a high mountain, and was transfigured before them so
that His face shone as the sun, and His garments became as
light, so overwhelmingly splendid that Peter, James, and
John fell on their faces to the earth. He again charged them
that they should tell no man what they had seen till He had
risen from the dead.
So also, in the first chapter of John’s Gospel, the Logos,
or word or wisdom of God, is used to signify the esoteric
Christ in a mystical manner; and Origen, who lived at the
end of the second and the beginning of the third century,
says in his preface to John’s Gospel: f‘ To the literal¬
minded (or carnal) we teach the Gospel in the historic (or
literal) way, preaching Jesus Christ and Him crucified, but
to the proficients, fired with the love of Divine wisdom, we
impart the Logos.”
Thus it is that the nature of man and the method of his
salvation, body and soul, by the invocation of the Christ, or
the hidden light and spiritual life, which St. John says are
within every man, is the subject of this paper.
It is maintained that the theory propounded is in strict ac¬
cordance with the exoteric and esoteric teachings of Jesus of
Nazareth and St. John and St. Paul, as recorded in the
i gospels and epistles, and these records, notwithstanding
many verbal variations, are accepted as genuine reflections
of the life and doctrines of the founder of the Christian
religion.
The miraculous narrative is also accepted, it being under¬
stood that a miracle is not a direct interference by the Creator
with the order of nature, but is a substitution of the spiritual
or god-like force in man for the secondary or lower forces in
Nature.
That the spiritual man is in possession of this force is
taken for granted as a fact known to whoever has truthfully
and laboriously investigated the evidence ; hence a belief in
the miracles of Christ is a natural consequence of this know¬
ledge, and marvellous it is that many thoughtful “ ministers
of Christ” actually doubt or deny the necessity of this
belief, as if it were possible there could be a Christ without
miracles; for Christ being || the Son of God with power,”
must, as a necessity of his nature, be a worker of miracles.
The esoteric idea of the Christ of the gospels and epistles
is that the term Christ signifies the spiritual head or inner
secret light of every man, and thus the salvation of man,
soul and body, is not a mere phrase, but a transformation
realised by this inner secret and hidden Christ, or light, or
spirit coming to his temple and living and ruling there.
The spiritual man being thus known and acknowledged
now becomes the true master of himself, and, as the highest,
| is thus ruler over all lower forms of matter; and not only
! so, but man being thus truly a son of God, is thus in heaven
| while on earth, even as “ the Son of Man who is in heaven.”
The spiritual man thus evoked is the image of God re-
| discovered, and constitutes man a son of God, the divine and
| miraculous man, the Christ-like man, the worker of miracles,
I the supreme lord over all forces and materials, the converter
I of water into wine, the giver of sight to the blind, hearing
| to the deaf, food to the hungry, health to the diseased,
| raising the dead, casting out devils, and thus demonstrating
I that the spiritual man is supreme over the laws of Nature
| and <£ solid matter itself,” capable of transforming this vile
| body into the glorified body, the transformed spiritual body
| with angelic and heavenly associates.
In short, as God created man in his own image, so the
| Christ-born man, as a son of God, is supreme over all forms
| and forces lower than himself, and is thus saved body, soul,
j and spirit.
It is not meant to deny that many who pass the ordeal of
| what is popularly called ‘f conversion ” are not so far born
I again as to their outward lives and inward thoughts, and in
I so far are saved by the Christ; but it is maintained that
I this form of salvation is a mere shadow of the substance,
| and that it is not the true and absolute salvation of soul and
| body announced by Jesus Christ as “ the way and the truth
| and the life ” here and hereafter, inasmuch as they are not
| entirely Christ-like and the possessors of miraculous powers.
| “If any man be in Christ [or in spirit], he is a new
| creature; all old things have passed away, and all things
| have become new.” Those thus saved are “ one with Christ,
as He is one with the Father; ” and while on earth they are
in heaven, even as “ the Son of Man who is in heaven”
Let us contemplate the life, teachings, works, transfigura¬
tion, crucifixion, death, and resurrection of Jesus, the Christ
of God, potentially and actually the Saviour of the world,
morally, physically, and spiritually. This miraculous and
| Divine Being, born of a woman, but moulded in some
| mystical sense by the influence of the Holy Spirit of the
I Father while within the mystery of woman’s hidden nature,
| appeared on earth about two thousand years ago.
A few years during the prime of human life were spent in
| communion with God, “ being about His Father’s business.”
) When about the age of thirty, having fasted forty days and
110
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 7, 1879.
forty nights, and overcome the devil, He from the mountain |
preached the Sermon on the Mount, an epitome of moral j
and spiritual perfection, and then immediately began to put j
His moral and spiritual precepts into action, transmuting
spiritual truths into moral and physical facts by going about j
continually doing good, and curing all manner of diseases,
and teaching that love to God and love to man were the sum
and substance of all religion and all morality. He hated
intensely all cruelty and all lying, but especially all hypocrisy j
and formalism and priestcraft. He opened the eyes of the I
blind; He caused the deaf to hear, the lame to walk, the !
leper to be cleansed, and the demoniac to be purified and in |
his right mind. He raised the dead to life, and was Him- j
self, as nn evidence of His spiritual nature, transfigured so |
that u His face shone as the sun and His raiment became as
light.” He taught the law of self-sacrifice, or the crucifixion j
of the flesh, as a pre-requisite to that spiritual regeneration
which is eternal life. Himself “ despised and rejected of 1
men,” abhorred by formalists, hated by the priests ; He was i
persecuted, scourged, spit upon, and crucified as the result \\
of His perfectly true, holy, and loving life.
To be fully possessed by the Divine power, beauty, i
majesty, and significance of this miraculous man, we must |J
devour, as it were, the story of His life, His words and acts, J1
His afflictions and crucifixion with the intense earnestness |
as of a new revelation, and in one unbroken effort.
If read thus the story comes out with a power, truth, j
beauty, majesty, and love which are overwhelming ; and he j
who, whilst thus surveying the complete Christ—the mani- j
festation of such love and holiness on one side, and such ]
hideous wickedness on the other—is not torn with a tempest I
of grief and admiration, has not yet entered into the depths |
of a true emotion.
This Jesus Christ declares himself, and is declared by
others, to be the only begotten and well-beloved Son of God, I
and the only way, and truth, and life by which we can go to j
our Father.
In order, if possible, to see how such claims can be true, j
how Christ, as the spirit, can be the Saviour of man, body j
and soul, let us attempt to discover the nature and capabili¬
ties of man, and his destination. Ho more profoundly 1
in teres! ing questions can be asked, and nowhere can we find i
so profound a solution as in the teachings and life of Jesus I
Christ, Himself the all-wise and divine man.
Man, according to St. Paul, and a true psychology, is a
trinity of body, soul, and spirit.
The visible earthly body is not the man, but only the j
mechanism used by the soul} which is the man. The visible )'
body is said to be composed of certain atoms called matter; ! J
which matter is only a series of forms assumed by certain (
forces.
Force being the substance of matter, there is no such lj
thing as “solid” matter, and no two “atoms of matter” jj
are actually in contact.
Matter being only certain forms assumed by certain forces j
can be dissolved and become invisible by the action of heat j
and other forces including spiritual force; and can be reformed I
by man, as a spiritual force, into its original, or any likeness I
desired by the spiritual force controlling the secondary j
forces. I
Matter can thus be rendered as invisible as the soul and j
spirit of man now are. ]
Inhabiting the visible body is the soul or mental force |
of the man, and this is the man on this earth and in this |
world.
This soul wills, reasons, loves, hates, and moves its bodily jj
machine according to its affections. It lives in a physical lj
world, and accommodates itself to physical conditions, jj
It marries and begets children; it digs the ground, jj
and grows corn, and wine, and oil, and sheep, and j
oxen out of the ground. It moves the body to eat these and j j
other forms of matter, in order that it may appropriate jj
their forms and forces, and thus rebuild its ever decomposing j
body. j
The soul does all this and many other things for about j
seventy years. j
It clothes its body in garments of skin, or cotton, or wool, j
or silk, and lives in a hovel, a cottage, a mansion, or a jj
palace, according to its powers of appropriation.
j The man who is clothed in cotton and lives in a cottage,
j and “ eats his bread by the sweat of his brow,” is generally
j despised by the man who has a gorgeous house and furniture,
j and who is “ clothed in purple and fine linen, and fares
j sumptuously every day j” and yet our earthly life is but as a
j grain of sand on the sea-shore.
j j In about seventy years at the furthest all this formalism
) comes to an end. The body first gets stiff, the eyes dim,
! j the hearing dull, and the limbs unsteady; and ultimately
j the man is said to die !
i But it is not so; the reality is not as the appearance; for
i even as no so-called matter can be annihilated neither can
[ any force.
i Matter is changed in form and position, according to the
! direction of the internal force; but the internal force of man,
being his reasoning soul, remains a reasoning soul after the
decay of his body, just as an electric force remains an electric
force, although the jars, and tin-foil, and wire by which the
electric force is held captive are broken and strewn on the
ground.
The soul, thus being at the death of the body free to act
on its own account, remains the living and reasoning soul of
man, useful or mischievous, happy or miserable, according
to the thoughts, words, and deeds done while in the flesh.
This is the doctrine of Christ and of all religious teachers,
and it is in conformity with the wholesome instincts of the
vast majority of human beings. It is also in harmony
with man’s highest happiness, and therefore we pronounce
it true.
Those who will not or cannot believe this doctrine are
abnormal human beings, the victims, it may be, of their own
conceits; or, it may be, so organically constituted as to be
incapable of apprehending the true nature of man—just as
from an organic defect some are colour-blind, and cannot
distinguish red from green.
But man is a trinity ; and just as his bodily form is inha¬
bited and animated by his soul-force, so his soul-force, being
itself after the death of the body still in form as a man or
woman, is on its departure from the body either a wandering,
and, it may be, a visible soul or ghost, or it may be confined
as a purgatorial creature, doomed for a certain time to pur¬
gation as by fire. Or it may be that the soul, while on earth,
j having lived a life of purity, love, and holiness, passes into
j paradise, and lives with the angels and “ the spirits of the
j just made perfect.”
If this result is gained, then that soul has found its
spiritual head, or centre, or essence, the Christ within it,
and has become truly a son of God.
Thus the man becomes a saved and angelic creature in
j heaven. But just as man, as Adam—who was made in the
j form of God, and was a true child of God—lost his immortal
life here, so man, when he finds and regains the lost and
j hidden Christ within him, becomes an immortal and angelic
being; the divine and miraculous man even while on this
j earth.
Even if the story of Adam be regarded as mythical, it none
j the less expresses the mystical truth that the true man is a
I son of God, a Christ-like, miracle-working man, “ having
j dominion over the fowls of the air, the beasts of the field,”
and all subordinate creation.
Thus we can find an explanation of the words of the
apostle: “ If any man be in Christ (or in spirit), he is a
new creature; old things are passed away, and all things
have become new.” Thus also are explained the words of
Jesus when He says: “Ho man hath ascended up into
heaven but He who came down from heaven, even the Son
of Man who is in heaven.” Thus also can be understood
Paul’s words when he said: “ I knew a man in Christ, how
he was caught up into paradise, and heard unspeakable
words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter.’
This is the hidden and esoteric doctrine taught by Jesus,
“ the secret of the Logos,” as especially revealed by John,
namely, The Gospel, the Good Hews, or the coming of the
kingdom of heaven on this earth as demonstrated by the
abolition of sin, disease, devils, and mortality, before the
face of Christ, the Divine and Miraculous Man.
It may be asked, as by Hicodemus, “ How can these
things be ? ” and it may be replied, “ Art thou a teacher in
Israel, and knowest not these things ? ”
March?. 1879. THE SPIRITUALIST. Ill
Jesua says: “Repent and believe the Gospel;” that is,
believe in the good news of the coming of the kingdom of
heaven, and let your prayer to the Father be, “ Thy kingdom
come on earth even as in heaven.”
The evangelical sect teach that the Gospel is the belief
that “ the blood of Christ has been shed for the sins of the
world.” So indeed it is; but the blood of Christ is the
life of Christ, for “ the blood is the life,” and thus it is that
Christ, by his life, and teachings, and self-sacrifice, and
transfiguration and death, and resurrection, if adopted by us,
becomes “ the way, the truth, and the life ” whereby we are
saved.
By this faith sin and disease disappeared before Him, and
He thus became the Saviour of the body, and by this faith
the soul is cleansed and then glorified. The Gospel, or good
news, is thus no mere form of words, or sounding phrase, but
the actual fact that the kingdom of heaven has come to all
who believe, repent, and live the complete life of Christ.
The fruits of this salvation are “ long-suffering, patience,
love unfeigned, joy, peace,” and its gifts are the powers of the
Holy Spirit, the spiritual man, with his Christ-like power to
“ heal all manner of diseases, and cast out all devils.”
These are not words, but facts. The spiritual man has not
only “ the life which now is, but that which is to come; ”
the original form in which he was created is re-discovered;
and being in the form of God, a divine man on earth, he is
supreme master of himself, and therefore of the external
phenomenal world, because to the Divine Man is given the
power to create, re-dissolve, and re-create externals by the
force of his spiritual alchemy.
“ Where two of ye shall agree as concerning anything ye
shall ask it shall be done for them of my Father which is in
heaven,” and “ Lo I am with you alway, even to the end of
the world.”
If this promise of Christ is true, and if we have not the
promised proof that Christ is with us, then we may be good
moral followers of Jesus; but we are not saved here, soul and
body, by the blood and life of Christ’s mystical power over
all secondary laws, and therefore over matter.
It may be replied that this cannot be the true meaning of
Christ’s words, because since the days of the apostles no
such powers have been possessed by mortal man.
But it is replied not so, for in no age of the world has
“ God left Himself without a witness,” and to those who
have been initiated this statement is known to be true.
Pre-eminently to re-create his vile body into a new and
glorious body, and thus to “ glorify God with our souls and
bodies which are His,” has been practically accomplished in
all ages of the world, and divine and miraculous men and
women have never ceased from the face of the earth.
Moses was an illustration of this when descending from
Mount Sinai, where he for forty days communed with God,
and his face shone so that the people dared not approach him ;
and thus also Stephen, the first Christian martyr, whose
face the people saw “ as it had been the face of an angel
and like events have happened in modern times, and in all
times. The lives of the saints, as in the instances of St.
Ignatius, St. Teresa, and Savonarola, are an unanswerable
evidence of this assertion, and the history of the Church of
Christ affords a continuous succession of examples of holy
men and women while in ecstatic prayer becoming, as St.
Teresa expresses it, married mystically to the Divine Son,
and thus actually becoming one with God, as Christ said He
was one with God.
Those who ascended to this spiritual eminence became
elevated from the ground, while their faces shone with an
effulgence, and their chambers became filled with light—
exact counterparts of the transfigured Christ.
This statement will not be received by the uninitiated,
but it is not the less true, as those who have been initiated
know.
Those who have watched the beauty of the Sleeping Child
whose angel is beholding the face of God, or who have hung
over the “ rapture of repose” in the face of the dead, whose
spirit has just taken its last embrace on departing, may con¬
ceive of the beauty of those “ born of the spirit,” and with
such it will not “ seem a thing impossible” that God should
raise the “ dead soul” to the manifestation of the effulgent
Spirit.
If it be now asked, as in the days of Christ, “ Are there
| | few that be thus saved ?” it may be replied, as by Christ,
| i “ Strive ye to enter in at the strait gate, for many will seek
| i to enter in and shall not be able,” “ for many be called, but
| | few chosen,” and “strait is the gate that leadeth unto life,
| I and few there be that find it.”
If matter be merely a form assumed by certain forces, then
I | each man’s form is the form of his soul force; and if so, it
i | can readily be understood that when the soul is purified by a
II life of holiness, and when “ forsaking the husks which the
j j swine do eat,” it says, “ I will arise and go to my father,”
I I that the Christ or spirit “ coming suddenly to its temple,”
I ! the entire man becomes transformed into a resemblance of
j | the transfigured Jesus.
And as the spiritual man is “in the form of God,” he
| | becomes God-like in act, as well as thought. He becomes a
| j worker of miracles; and being a forgiver of sin, or a healer
| I of the diseased, he can transform into his own likeness the
I I bodies of those who believe.
The souls of these men and women have found their
j | Christ or Spiritual Light, and are at one with the Father.
As the humble chrysalis is by the transforming power of
I the sun’s [heat converted into the glorious butterfly, so the
j careworn and travel-toiled Jesus by the force of his
j spiritual prayer was transfigured, “when His face shone as
I | the sun and his raiment became as light,” and Peter, and
| | James, and John fell on their faces to the earth before Him.
Thus it is that the spiritual man not only commands his own
| | body, but can transform all lower forms, and the miraculous
| becomes his normal condition.
As “ God visits the sins of the fathers upon the children
II to the third generation,” we can thus easily see why the
| j spiritual regeneration of soul and body is a rare and
| j exceptional event, and all but unattainable, except among
| j the “ few who are chosen.”
But if the sins are visited to the third generation, so also
| I are the virtues; and we can see how it may come to pass
| j that if the children were only begotten and reared in perfect
j | love, those of the third generation might become actually
i sons of God.
To attain this end we might well afford to “ sell all which
j we have and follow Christ;” and we can appreciate the
| I wisdom of that man who “ bartered all that he had, and
| I purchased the one field in which was hidden the sacred
j treasure.”
For thousands of years in the East, and by fits and starts
j j in the West, this hidden light has been from time to time
| | found and acted upon, and men and women who, having
! “ crucified the flesh with its affections and lusts, which
| | war against the soul,” have lived the Christ-like life,
{ i and been gifted with the miraculous power of healing and
| prophecy.
The moral teachings and beneficent life of Jesus are
I I sufficient for the great majority of human beings ; but the
j | esoteric teachings of Christ are revealed only to the few,
I and it is with the esoteric only that “the spirit maketh
I | intercessions with our spirits with groanings which cannot be
I uttered.” The simple good ones of the earth have “the
| | promise of the life to come,” but those esoterically saved by
| | the Christ within them coming to his temple are, while on
| | earth, also in heaven, and are already “ children of the
I | resurrection.”
Jesus taught the law of love, which, if followed, leads to
I j the kingdom of heaven, and thus the young man who had
I j kept this law from his youth was told that he was not far
I | from the kingdom of heaven, but although not far from it,
j he was not within that kingdom.
The water, in his case, had not been converted into wine ;
I | the moral man was not the divine man; he was a lover, but
! (i not the bridegroom: he was not, in the miraculous sense, one
j | with God as Christ and his chosen are.
To be “ Christ-like,” then, is the sum of the idea herein
11 propounded^
This is a commonplace phrase, but those who use it
| i generally only realise half its signification. The meaning
I I usually attached to it is that of one who lives a loving,
j | peaceful, true, and religious life; who daily is a peacemaker,
I | easily forgives his enemies, and doing daily all the good he
1'5 can, makes continual self-sacrifices.
112
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 7, 1879.
This, indeed, is much, and few there be who attain to it; j
but this is only the moral or exoteric side of Christ’s life.
"When, in answer to the Master, the disciple replied, |
“ Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God,” Jesus j
replied, “ Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jona, for flesh and |
blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father, who is j
in heaven; ” and He charged his disciples that they should j
reveal the secret to no man.
Again, when Jesus was transfigured, when “ His face shone I
as the sun and His raiment as light/’ and Moses and Elias |
were with Him, being on the same plane of spirit or heaven, j
He again charged His disciples that they should tell no man j
until He was risen from the dead. i
Thus secretly was revealed the secret or esoteric life of j
Christ, “ the secret of the Logosand thus Jesus, while on
earth, was at the same time the Christ in heaven, “ even | !
the Son of Man tvfo is in heaven,” and thus one with the j j
Father. To be Christ-like, therefore, is “to be one with i j
Him [and with God], as He was one with the Father. ” It is to i j
be a divine and miraculous man on earth and in heaven at j J
one and the same time while on this side the grave.
But we live in a physical world, ruled by physical laws, j
and while here the command is given to “increase and mul- j
tiply and replenish the earth, and subdue it.”
It is not, then, orderly that the human race should be over I
spiritualised on this earth, for were it so, there being then ; j
neither u marrying nor giving in marriage,” the earth would
become a desolation.
There must be always hewers of wood and drawers of
water, and the supreme men must be few and far between.
Although, then, it has been given only in rare and excep¬
tional cases, and as illustrations of the possibilities of man
to be truly Christ-like, yet we may all, more or less, be like
Christ in the second degree, and this is practically what we I
must all strive after.
There is one grand law: “ Thou shalt love the Lord thy i
God with all thy heart and soul and mind and strength; j
and thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.” “ This do, j
and thou shalt live,” for this is the sum and substance of all j j
religion and all morality^
The love of one’s neighbour as one’s self renders all |
immorality impossible, for with this love we could not j
steal, nor bear false witness, nor envy or decry, or slander, j
nor hate nor kill, nor commit fornication or adultery, but j
love and honour all men and women. j
We could pardon our enemies, and “ pray for those who j
despitefully use us and persecute us,” “ returning blessing for i
cursing,” “ enduring all things, hoping all things, believing |
all things.”
As aids to this life, we must live simply, purely, lovingly,
prayerfully, and contentedly, rejoicing always in the Lord.
It is good at stated periods to partake of the bread and |
wine of the altar, but it is better always to “ eat our food with j
gladness and singleness of heart, giving God thanks.” j
Hence that grace before food which has degenerated into a j
mere form, and of which most men seem ashamed, should j
be a sincere prayer to God, so to “ give us our daily |
bread,” that this bread may be by the spirit transformed into j
the body and blood of Christ in us. Who shall place limits !
to the power of thankfulness, and love, and gratitude, thus j
to transform the food for soul and body?
In food thus taken the water may become converted into j
wine, and the loaves and fishes into miraculous nourishment, j
and we may become nourished as the “ angels who excel in j
strength.” The exhalations of the body may become as j
fragrance, and the u odour of sanctity ” be a realised j
blessing.
Furtner, “ cleanliness is next to godliness,” and our !
sleep should be as that which the beloved receive, a time of |
stillness, and holiness, and nearness to God, when our old | |
men shall see visions, and our young men shall dream j j
dreams, and probably when, as it is with children, our j j
“ angels may behold the face of our Father in heaven, “ and j I j
supping with these angels, return at morning tide to our | |
renewed and invigorated selves. |; |
This body, being thus cleansed, should not be injured or J
maligned by foolish, grotesque, vulgar, unwholesome, or j j
indelicate dress. How hideous that this soul and body,which | i
are the Lord’s, should be by man sodd for houses or lands, or ' '
the upper seats in the synagogues, or to be called Rabbi;
and by women for the vulgarity and indecency of dress, in
place of being clothed with humility and a meek and quiet
spirit.”
But “ the flesh lusteth against the spirit and the spirit
against the flesh,” and “ the carnal mind is enmity against
God ; ” therefore, our whole life must be a constant desire
and prayer to be kept from all evil, and led into all truth;
to be enabled to love God, to forgive our enemies, and to
look for the kingdom of heaven.
The essential centre of all true, internal, esoteric, and
spiritual religion is one and the same. It is a seeking after
God, “ if haply we may find Him.” It is a cry after the
hidden God within us. It is the nervana or God-ward
rapture of repose and knowledge of the esoteric Brahman and
Buddhist. It is the mystical participation of the body and
blood, the life of Christ in the Eucharist; it is the longing
desire for our inner Lord, the Lord of the temple, the Lord
of heaven and earth. It is signified by the wisdom of the
Book of Solomon, by the divine Sophia, with whom the soul
of Jacob Boehme danced with divine delight, by the Logos
of the Alexandrian Greeks, or the operative wisdom of God
in the world, “ the word ” of St. John, “ the mystery kept
secret since the world began,” “ God manifest in the flesh,”
the Christ, the hidden “ light of every man that cometh
into the world,” “ the light shining in darkness and the
darkness comprehending it not,” “the bread of life which
cometh down from heaven, and of which, if a man eat, he will
hunger no more.”
True religion thus interpreted renders all sectarianism an
impossibility, for its one law is love—love to God and love
to man—and its result must be ultimately to fill Jhe earth
with the glory of God, as the waters cover the channel of the
sea.
When the whole earth was given over to wickedness, and
the love of God, which is an expanding force, had been
entirely driven out of the world, the natural and scientific
consequence was a collapse of the earth, and its consequent
submergence. Out of this catastrophe the earth had so far
recovered, until at the time of the coming of Christ wicked¬
ness had again become ascendent with its hideous cruelties,
and inconceivable moral putrescency. Then the Saviour of the
earth, and of man, body and soul, appeared, and by his law
of self-sacrifice and love, which has grown ever since, and
has in these days of seeking after truth grown rapidly, the
earth and man have been saved from a second cataclysm.
And the expanding force of the love of God is destined thus
to change this globe into “ a new heaven and a new earth,
wherein dwelleth righteousness,” when, “ by faith mountains
shall be removed, and rough places made plain,” and
when “ none shall say 4 Know the Lord, for all shall know
Him from the least even to the greatest.’ ”
But as 44 Christ (crucified was to the Jews a stumbling-
block, and to the Greeks foolishness,” so spiritual religion is
to the Pharisee or formalist hateful, and to the materialist
abhorrent; because the formalist, or carnal or material mind,
are at enmity against the spiritual, as 44 such can only be
spiritually discerned.”
The man of mere words or forms, whether the words are
the empty shibboleth of the sectarian, or the pedantic
nomenclature of the scientist, cannot understand or know
spiritual things.
If we offer the Esquimaux the fragrant fruits of the earth,
he rejects them with disgust; but if we offer him a lump of
reeking blubber, he will devour it with gratitude.
So, also, if we offer the dogmatic religionist the simple
4‘ beauty of holiness ” as the essence of religion, he will spurn
it, and if he had the power would, as of old, burn him who
offers it, with his teachings, in the fire; but offer him an
incomprehensible series of phrases as true religion, and he
will embrace you as a brother.
And so, again, if you can prove to the scientist any in¬
significant physiological fact extorted by a cruel vivisection,
he will extol you and enrol your name in the annals of a
royal society. But offer to demonstrate to him that man is
a trinity of body, soul, and spirit, and that his visible body
is a mere machine used by his soul, and that when in trance
you may cut this body to pieces, with the owner’s entire
indifference; and that the internal soul can see without
Maegh 7, 1879.
113
THE SPIRITUALIST.
visible eyes, and hear without visible ears, and handle
without visible hands, and see and know equally the near
and the far, the present, the past, and the future: attempt
to demonstrate the truth of this to the materialist, and that
religion is the highest science and philosophy, and proves
that man’s soul and spirit are supreme over all secondary
laws, and over matter, and that the spiritual man being
master of himself, is supreme master over matter, and can
thus, as a spiritual force, pass through matter, which is a
mere form of secondary force, as heat passes through iron,
or light passes through glass; attempt to demonstrate such
truths as these, and he will desire either to place you in a
madhouse, or will hale you before the magistrate in the
attempt to cast you into outer darkness with stripes and
imprisonment.
True religion, nevertheless, is the highest of all the
sciences and of all philosophies, because the salvation of our
bodies and souls can thereby be demonstrated to be physio¬
logical and psychological facts, and those who begin to live
the life will begin to perceive that the doctrine is true, and
those who fully live the life will know that it is true.
The fact that magical powers may be possessed by men of
a low moral nature, and used for foolish or vile purposes, is
no objection to the fact of the divine and miraculous man,
any more than the fact that the greatest mental genius is
sometimes associated with the most degrading vice is an
objection to mental genius.
Should, however, any man attain to the spiritual supremacy
over matter, he is not only in a position of the greatest
responsibility, but of imminent danger unless he gives
himself entirely to unselfishness ; and indeed “ it were better
for that man that a millstone were hanged about his neck,
and he were cast into the depths of the sea,” than that he
should use these powers for any purpose antagonistic to the
glory of God and the good of the human race, or to the
coming of the external and internal kingdom of heaven, the
salvation of the bodies and souls of men and women.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF THE LEADER OF BRAHMOISM.
The Indian Daily News (Calcutta, January 27th), received
by last overland mail, states that Baboo Keshub Chunder
Sen, the leader of Brahmoism, gave his annual address at
the Town Hall, Calcutta, a few days previously. The text
of his lecture was—“Am Ian inspired prophet?” About
1,200 natives, and a small number of Europeans, conspicuous
among whom were several missionaries, were present. The
speaker engaged the attendance of his large audience for
over an hour and a half. The following is a portion of his
address:—
Fellow-Countrymen and Friends,—Again and again has
India asked me, “ Art thou an inspired prophet ?” Dictated
in the first instance by a purely captious spirit, and directed
exclusively against the character of an individual, the ques¬
tion appeared unworthy of serious attention, and hopes were
entertained that, like all passing questions of the hour, it
would set itself at rest in the course of time. But unfor¬
tunately the question gathers force year after year. ... I am
no sentimentalist. I am not given to fancy or imaginary. I
have never had a religious dream in my life. It is all
reality. I see with my own eyes the roots of all vices in my
heart. I am conscious of them. They are not imaginary,
but actual vices that I see. Shall I name them ? They are
pride, vanity, jealousy, envy, ingratitude, anger, resentment.
Shall I say more ? Lying, perjury, forgery; yea, even man¬
slaughter. The roots of all these vices I see in me as clearly
as I see you here. I see them in the depths of my heart.
Whenever I go to my God to pray, I see that there is some¬
thing terribly foul in me which must be cleansed. Actually
I may not have committed all these sins. But what of that ?
A sinner is judged not by his actual performance of sinful
deeds, but by his sinful propensities. He is judged not by
what he has actually done, but by what he is capable of
doing, and what he is susceptible of. The Lord judges not
from outward actions, but from capabilities and suscepti¬
bilities. The seat of corruption is not in the hand, but in
the heart. Not what is actual, but what is potential, shows
I our real character. I take into account not only what I am
! to-day, but what I may be to-morrow. I see the roots of all
| vices and iniquities in my mind. Tell me not, then, I am
amongst you as a prophet that can by his own holiness
| redeem wicked India. That is not my destiny ; that is not
! my mission. I would rather go and humbly say to the holy
prophets of ancient and modern times, Come and help me
| and fellow-sinners in India; and I would ask my God to
| send to me the help of all His chosen prophets. Surely,
then, I am not worthy of a place in the category of prophets.
I tremble at the idea of being associated with those heavenly
! saints. Can I say I am not worthy to unloose the latchet
| of Jesus’ shoes—will that sufficiently indicate my humble
| position ? I would not. It would rather be a great honour
| to be able to say so. For did not John the Baptist use this
i language with reference to Christ Jesus, and would I not be
! claiming the Baptist’s honours ? Will it, then, do for me to
| say I am unworthy to unloose the latchets of John the
| Baptist’s shoes ? That, too, would be an honour for which I
| am unfit. Can I apply these words in any relation to
Luther, to John Knox, to Gooroo Nanuk of the Punjab, to
| Kabir, to Tuccaram ? Verily, I am unworthy to touch the
| shoes of the least of the world’s prophets. Here, then, am
| I. Judge me and my character. I have said the plain
| truth, and now the phantom of India’s prophet passes into
| thin air. It is a dream and illusion. The so-called prophet
| of Bengal going forth to save Bombay and Madras is a pure
I fiction, and it at once vanishes into nothingness.
Then, what am I ? If I am not a prophet, I am a
I singular man. I am not as ordinary men are, and I say
| this deliberately. I say this candidly. I am conscious of
j marked peculiarities in my faith and character. My singu¬
larity began when I was fourteen years of age. I then
| abstained from animal food. That was, no doubt, a small
| thing considered in itself. But it was a momentous
| change considered in the light of what followed. My life
| was destined for asceticism and abstinence, for the sim-
| plicities of faith and life. I was to be debarred from the
|) I luxuries of the world. That event, at least, showed which
| j I way the wind was blowing. I was constrained by the Spirit
( of God. Within a few years I felt more and more this con-
| J straining influence. What was it that made me so singular
j j in the earlier years of my life ? Providence brought me
| | into the presence of three very singular persons in those
j i days. They were among my earliest acquaintances. As I
j was walking along the paths of my life, I met three stately
| figures, heavenly, majestic, and full of divine radiance ; and
| I who were these ? A wild-looking man, John the Baptist,
! ! was seen going about, not exactly in the midst of the gloom
| of night, but in the morning twilight—in the wilderness of
I | India, saying, “ Repent ye, for the kingdom of Heaven is at
| j hand.” I felt he was speaking to me as I am speaking to
I I you here. I confronted his spirit. I heard his voice. It
j | was real; it was clear—“ Repent ye, for the kingdom of
I Heaven is at hand.” Those words stirred me. The man’s
| | raiment was of camel’s hair, and his meat was locusts and
I i wild honey. I fell down and learnt contrition and repentance
| | at the feet of John the Baptist. Why came he to me ?
! Did he really come to me ? Yes, he did come to me—he
whose voice was heard in Judea several centuries ago. And
j | he came to me because God sent him to me for my benefit,
| | and I heard his words, and profited greatly. He passed
I | away, and then came another prophet far greater than he,
| | the prophet of Nazareth. Standing on a high hill, he
j j addressed to me these solemn words—words which were even
| ! more thrilling than those said to me by John the Baptist—
j “ Take no thought, said He, for your life, what ye shall eat,
j or what ye shall drink, or what ye shall put on. Take no
j thought for the morrow.” These words of Jesus found a
j j lasting lodgment in my heart, and have ever since continued
j to influence me. Hardly had Jesus finished His words,
| | when came another prophet, and that was the travelled
11; ambassador of Christ, the strong, heroic, and valiant Apostle
I i Paul. And what did he say to me ? He gave me but on
; lesson, and that was enough. He said to me—“ Let them
i that have wives be as though they had none; ” and these
| words came upon me like burning fire at a most critical
1 period of my life. I was then about to marry, or had just
‘ got married. It was my impression at the time ihft
114
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 7, 1879.
marriage was the gate to worldliness, and I was glad to find a
response in Paul’s Epistles. Verily, verily, as Paul says,
those that have wives try to please them. They think of
the things of this world, and not of the things of Heaven.
They are worldly-minded men. Therefore, those that have
wives ought to be like those who have none; in other words,
they should discharge their household duties, but should
love the Lord above all things; they should not be immersed
in carnality and worldliness. I entered the world with
ascetic ideas, and my honeymoon was spent amid austerities
in the house of the Lord. From that time I was deter¬
mined never to sink into worldliness. The temptations and
allurements of the world were hateful to me, and I said—
Heaven save me from these treacherous snares! Paul’s
words flashed like lightning across my whole heart and soul,
and I began to realise my destiny more vividly from that
hour. I was to live in the midst of the world, and do my
work, and fulfil my mission there, but I was not to be
gathered amongst worldly-minded men. I was destined to
be a man of faith. I was destined and commissioned by
God to be a spiritually-minded and not a worldly-minded
man. Having thus spoken to me through these eminent
prophets, and taught me self-denial and asceticism, the Lord
took me away from the world altogether, and gathered me
into His fold and into His church in the spirit world. And
He said unto me—“ I am thy church and doctrine, I am
thy creed and thy immortality, thy earth, thy heaven; I am
thy family and thy habitation, thy food and thy raiment,
thy treasure here and in heaven. Believe in Me.” This <£I
am” was a strange God to me in those days—for I was not
accustomed to such teachings, to such direct inspiration.
You all believe in the one true God, and I, too, believe in
Him. But I say unto you I believed in a singularly jealous
divinity in those days, and I still cling to a singular Theism.
For if you have faith in God, you have faith also in a dis¬
tinct heaven, in a distinct and elaborate creed, and you have
also a distinct system of ethics to go by. But all these,
you should remember, were taken away by me. The Lord
said I was to have no heaven, but life in Himself; no
doctrine, no creed, but a perennial and perpetual inspiration
from heaven. Thus the freedom of my reason was com¬
pletely overcome, and I lost my self-will. At three places
had I to sell my freedom. I had to sell my freedom to my
country, and then to my church, and all that was left—the
residue of my independence was swallowed up by the all-
conquering and all-absorbing grace of God. Thus was I
sold for ever. I had no life of my own to lead, no doctrine
of my own to teach ; I had no right to feel, think, or do as
other independent minds did. When the Lord said, “No
independence,” He used no qualifying terms ; there was no
reservation; I had to make an unconditional surrender of
myself, and become a bondsman. I was bound, chained,
and fettered at the feet of the Lord. My doctrines were
taken away; my church and my house were taken away, and
myself was destroyed. I was a slave, a prisoner beneath
the throne of heaven. For days and months together there
was no smile on my face. It was all solemn, all dark. The
Lord had caught me by the hairs of the head, and had thrown
me headlong into the valley of sorrow and tribulation.
There was none to advise me, or show me the right path ;
there was none to say to me, “ Read this or that.” There
was no one to say “ Go to Jesus ”—“ Go to Paul.” I was
left to myself. Single-handed, I was to work against
tremendous odds, to conquer my weaknesses and sins.
Prayer was my only shield and buckler, and faith the only
key which I had in my hand to open the portals of heaven.
If 1 was sorry, I had only to go to my God and say—“ Lord,
shall I continue to weep ?” If I was burdened with iniquity,
1 had only to say, to cry unto the merciful Father day after
day, and month after month. But the Lord’s mercy, which
cometh to all, came to me also, and promised all things. He
said unto me that He would give unto me not only the truths
and joys of heaven, but also all earthly necessaries. Seek
the kingdom of God in the first instance, and all other
things shall be added unto you. I wanted nothing else but
the kingdom of heaven, but I soon found I had got every¬
thing necessary for my temporal as well as spiritual welfare.
This singular faith in a singularly jealous God of heaven
Irought me day and day nearer to Him, and further and
II further from worldliness. Months and years rolled away,
| and I found that the dark places of my life were being illu-
1 minated, and the joys of heaven had taken those places
| which had been given up to sorrows, cares, and anxieties.
I I was no longer a child of sorrow, and burning in the midst
| of tribulation. The benignant face of my Father shone'forth
| in my face, and His loving kindness wiped off the tears from
i my cheeks, and I was happy. My days were pleasant. My
i /1 nights were no longer nights of unrest and trouble, but
| | nights of serenity, peace, and joy. My Divinity, the Theist’s
| | Divinity, I disentangled altogether from the meshes of
| | theology and metaphysics, and placed Him before the eye of
j | faith as a plain real fact for my daily guidance. All my
| | prayers were addressed to Him, and all my knowledge was
I derived from Him and not from books. Some think I am
I wise, but they are mistaken. Some think I am rich; they,
| too, are mistaken. They are surely and decidedly misin-
I formed. I am not rich, I am not learned, and, I have
| already told you, I am not holy. None of these three things
J have I. My poverty, and also my learning, is concealed in
| the midst of the comforts and luxuries and honours of this
i world. These do not appertain to me, or rather they hide
my true self. My cottage is in the midst of a splendid
habitation, though I may have to live from hand to mouth.
My appearance is that of one of the wealthiest and richest
men in the world. I am sure to break down hopelessly if I
| attempt to speak when my feelings are not properly roused.
[7 I am all impulse. When I am once excited, you will hear
| burning words. I shall speak with power, and I shall
| certainly crush into atoms the most impregnable strong-
i holds of error. My true self must not be identified with
| outward appearances, which are only the result of shifting
| circumstances. Whatever the Lord gives to me I am bound
| to accept. Be it riches or penury, I must submit to all the
j ordinances and dispensations of God. If fortune and friends
| desert me, and leave me ragged and penniless, I must bear
| my lot with patience. If it be His pleasure that thousands
| of his valiant soldiers should gather around me, I shall joy-
| | fully lead them on as their captain, in spite of the flash of
| | cannons, to achieve victories in the cause of truth and
I | righteousness. What the Lord wills, that shall be done.
I | I care not whether I am poor or rich. I am neither poor nor
j | rich. I am not a wise man. How can he who scarcely reads
I | two books in three hundred and sixty-five days be reckoned a
| j wise or a learned man ? Yet am I studious. It is true I
I | study not the books of the West, nor the books of the East;
| ! but a volume far more edifying and valuable than all the
| | books of the world is ever before me—the volume of human
I nature itself. It is a most profitable and agreeable study.
I | Chapter after chapter have I read, but the inexhaustible
I | work of God is not finished yet, and is as replete
I (| with interest as ever. I still go on pondering over
I | the chapters of the sacred volume, and the Lord
j of Heaven, my Master and Teacher, who is with me
| | every day, explains word after word, phrase after phrase,
\ I word after word, syllable after syllable. Therefore am
j I wise. Yet I am not wise. Am I eloquent ? I never
1 I learnt elocution. I have a wild uncultured sort of eloquence
| which means only emotion. If I am excited, I can speak.
| If I am not, there is neither grammar nor sense in what I
| say, and you will be struck with the poverty of language.
! I Because it is not my force, my power, which then makes me
| | speak, but the Lord’s. If the burning words of truth I
j 11 speak are words of mine, I am an impostor. If the Lord
i | chooses to speak through my tongue, to Him must I give
| j all honour and glory. Then I am all fire, and I can speak
| | not only eloquently, but I can speak the words of pure
i wisdom and truth. Leave me to myself and my own
j ( resources, and in a moment the scene changes. Left to
11 myself this man can speak words of falsehood, lying, and
) | all that is abominable. This man two minutes ago was
| | speaking the words of God with power and authority. But
111 now he is weak, heartless, and miserable—he is dumb and
j | speechless. Believe me, so it is. I tell you the truth.
11 Nothing but the truth. I am speaking, and yet I am not
111 speaking. I am nothing. When I am not in my element,
j | j I falter even when I am indulging in conversation with
| friends. I cannot even write my letters with ease. But give
1 ’’ unto me the light and inspiration of Heaven, and I shall
March 7, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
115
speak with power which this world cannot conquer. What
is concealed from the wise is revealed unto a babe. There¬
fore would I trust Him and resign myself to Him with
child-like simplicity, and I would be wise in His wisdom.
I am not holy, I am not rich, I am not learned. Yet have
I the one thing needful. I have faith. And what sort of
faith ? That which can be converted into bread and water
—into philosophy, wisdom, and joy. Before the wisdom of
faith, the wisest of men would hide their faces in very shame.
It is such faith as this which sees God everywhere, and
evolves truth and purity even in this world of impurity.
How this Town Hall is illuminated just now. Yet in each
of those lights, one may trace the resplendent presence of
the Lord. It was only because we close our eyes that we
see not this light. Faith can see the Lord immanent in all
things and pervading the whole universe. Am I a Pan¬
theist ? I am in spirit a pantheist, though I hate the
doctrines of pantheism. I wish to encourage this spirit of
pantheism in India. I wish to see all men and women in
this country learn to perceive God everywhere and in all
objects. Did not Prahlad, that child of devotion, say, point¬
ing to a pillar—(t My Living God dwelleth in this, and as
the sword cut the pillar into two, the Almighty, it is said,
came out of the pillar.” This is mythology, but this is
theology, too. For verily the Lord dwelleth in every object.
If He dwelleth not in all space, then we live in vain in
this world. Of what good is religion if it does not teach
us to believe in a Deity ever near to us ? If God is, I
should like to see Him just here. No joke, no dream, no
sophistry will help us. The true God of Heaven and earth
Himself must be seen as a present reality. If He is not
found here, then the down-trodden sinner perishes at once,
lost in sin. Shall I go to the clouds and search my God
there ? Shall I go to the height of the Himalayas to under¬
stand and find Him ? It is impossible for a poor sinner to
achieve these impracticable feats. My God must Himself
come in to the sinner’s cottage and save him. He goes forth
not only to save but to seek and save the sinner. The
Omnipresent Lord is here and everywhere, and I have faith
in that fact, and therefore I must not only believe, but I
must use my God. Am I not justified in using an Omni¬
present Deity.
C To be concluded. J
THE HYDESVILLE MANIFESTATIONS.
To the Editor of the “ Spiritualist."
Sm,—I notice in your journal of 28th February the fol¬
lowing remark: “ Perhaps Mrs. Jencken is not aware of the
existence of evidence we are about to quote, or knows some¬
thing to vitiate its trustworthiness.” In answer, all I have
to say is, that I was fully aware of the evidence cited by you
when I wrote my letter. Not only have I most of these
printed statements in my possession, but this question was J
one much discussed by my dear parents and elder sisters and
brother at the time, and if called upon, they would unhesi¬
tatingly support my statements.
Hannah Weekman never mentioned the facts she gives in
her statement until after the phenomena had become publicly
known, though a constant visitor. The story was at the
time simply discredited. Miss Lucretia Pulver was a
servant woman in the employment of my brother, Mr. David
Fox, and at the time of the happening of these events, never
breathed a word of any prior knowledge of these manifesta¬
tions. The impression at the time at Hydesville and
Rochester was that these stories were set afloat, either from
over-excitement and the natural tendency to exaggerate to
gain attention, or prompted by the bookmakers, who, of
course, wanted something sensational added to enable them
to sell their wares.
This matter has been so often discussed, and inquired into
at a later period, with all the advantges of direct commu¬
nication with the witnesses, that I cannot but feel surprised
that these long-forgotten stories should be exhumed at this
late day. In conclusion, I repeat that the statements
made by the witnesses adduced by you have been refuted
over and over again.—Sincerely yours,
Kate Fox-Jencken.
Match 3rd, 1879.
I THE ANCIENT AND UNIVERSAL BELIEF IN SPIRITS.
BY HBNBY G. ATKIMSON, F.G.S., AUTHOK OF “ LETTEBS TO MISS MABTINEAU.”
In the history of the world there is found evidence of the
| universal belief in the spirits of the dead, and the pheno¬
mena bear a remarkable resemblance throughout. The
i philosophers of the Pagan world, who had all derived their
religion and knowledge from the theology of the Egyptian
| and Eastern nations, and the Romans, who borrowed theirs
from the Greeks, were all firmly persuaded that the souls of
the dead appeared sometimes to the living, and sometimes
j gave notice of future events. However, the most ancient of
i all the Greek writers, and the greatest Grecian divine, relates
i several cases of apparitions, not only of good, but also of
| bad men.
In the Odyssey he introduces Ulysses consulting Tyresius,
in order to call up the souls of deceased persons to tell
| future events. Lucan, in the sixth book of his Phasalia,
I introduces Pompey consulting a sorceress, and requiring her
j j to call up a departed soul that he might learn his future
| I fortune. Retiring upwards, and nearing more modern times,
j we find a similar opinion received among the Northern
{ | nations. It was a prevailing persuasion among them that
| | apparitions were the souls of persons lately deceased, and
| | the way to prevent their appearing any more was either to
! | behead or burn the body, as was still the custom in the
| | North of Europe, where belief in vampirism was the prevailing
j I opinion.
It is the common opinion of the Turks and Russians that,
| ! near the close of life, many persons have some sort of extra-
| | ordinary revelation of the event. Even the most ancient of
J j their writings prove this. Herbelot, in his Oriental Library
| I relates that the Sultan Moctandi Benvilla, as he rose one
| i day from table, said to one of his wives, who was present,
| | “ Who are these people that have come in here without
| | leave ?” Upon looking round she could see no one, but
I I observed that he grew pale, and he immediately fell down
i | dead. The Mahometan writings are full of stories, which
j j show that the doctrine of spirits has, from the earliest times,
| ! prevailed amongst them.
Then comes the question of the poet. The following is
I I from Blair’s poem of The Grave:—
i (I
u Tell us, ye dead, if ye in pity can,
Beyond this sphere what is the future plan ?
Some courteous ghost, if any such there be,
Tell us, in after life, what things ye see;
I For some of you, we know, in days of old,
The fatal story to mankind have told;
Forewarning them of death—oh then comply,
And tell, in charity, what ’tis to die :
But you’re withheld, no matter, death must call,
The curtain drop, and time will clear up all.”
Now, considering all history, and after so many years and
| all said and done in modern Spiritualism, the question occurs
i whether any “ courteous ghost ” has yet afforded the
| | information desired with anything like the clearness and
I ; fulness with which we should inform the ghosts, were we to
| | visit the other world, for the purpose of telling them about
| I this earth and the lives we lead here. The reply, I think,
! j must be in the negative. Yet we always suppose that spirits
I | freed from the grosser element must advance, and be more
| i intelligent than ourselves, and in a great measure be clair-
| i voyants, as indeed it seems they are. It is most important to
| I know frankly what can be said* on this matter, for I must
| | candidly confess that after reading all that has been written
| | on the subject, I can form no definite conception of the state
j | of things in the other world, and should be quite unable to
i i furnish the poet with any satisfactory reply to his question as
| | to “ what ’tis to die,” with a clear account of the next world
| I and of the existence here.
11 j Boulogne-sur-Mer.
IAn American newspaper, speaking about true marriages of affection,
says:—“ The attraction and repulsion which finer natures experience,
and which are remorselessly sacrificed to convenience or interest, are
the surest guides in the formation of proper unions; and the health,
beauty, and development of offspring are directly related to their
satisfaction and balance.”
116
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 7, 1879.
©nmaponirence. |
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically !) !
opposed to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot j ) |
be returned; copies should be kept by the writers. Preference is given to letters which !) j
are not anonymous.]  g j j j
EXPLANATIONS.
Sir,—I am sorry that some references to me by Mr. Harrison in the j > j
correspondence published in your paper this week makes it necessary j | j
for me to say something in explanation. j ( j
In his letter to Mr. Bennett, Mr. Harrison says that I told the ! > I
committee that some members of Council did not understand the j j I
general terms of the reference to cover the question that had been j ( !
raised. I could not, however, tell the committee this, because I had j j j
no knowledge of what members of Council, except myself, did or did i j j
not understand and intend. I could only argue upon what was \ ( j
apparent and probable. 11 !
Mr. Harrison’s letter seems to imply that in his opinion the com- j i j
mittee were guilty of something worse than a mere error of judgment I j
in deciding against my contention. By “the committee,” Mr. Harrison j |
apparently means the majority, or rather some of the majority, for one I i
of them agreed with me in considering that the question could only be | j
entertained, if at all, as one of economy. In fact, if an amendment / j
had been moved to this effect, instead of taking a division on the j j j
question generally, the majority would have been exactly reversed. (
But, in any case, to impute bad faith to the committee, as such, would, | j
it seems to me, be as absurd as to impute bad faith to the Council j j |
which affirmed its decision. j (j
I do not understand Mr. Harrison to mean this, but most certainly j >
S do not. What I did complain of in respect of fair play, procedure, \ |!
and policy, sufficiently appears from my letter to the Council, and to j (
that I have nothing to add, nor of it anything to retract or to modify, j j
But we learn now from Mr. Bennett that the general words of i jj
reference were advisedly employed by “ some members of the Council j (]
at least ” “ as a courteous way ” of raising the question. I have heard I j ]
of courtesy disarming opposition, but I never knew another occasion [ j!
on which this charming quality was so completely effectual for that j (j
purpose. j i j
In his letter to Mr. Calder, Mr. Harrison speaks of my having j j
brought charges. I am not aware that I have brought any charges. | j
In my letter to the Council I simply stated facts. I had nothing j j |
to do with people’s motives, but only with the effects of their j (!
actions; and I asked the Council to infer that on the previous j j |
occasion its members bad not been properly informed, nor the question i ? |
brought before the committee in accordance with the principles which ! j
ought to regulate the proceedings of public bodies on controverted j (|
matters. I j j
It may, no doubt, be impossible to state facts without suggesting j j |
charges, until the facts are explained. We now have the explanation; ] (j
and, of course, if all was intended simply in “ courtesy,” nothing has j | j
been done in bad faith. Unfortunately, acts, unlike words, have . (1
objective effects, which cannot be effaced by recourse to the “ Pick- j (j
wickian sense.” The tenderness of feeling which shrinks from wounding j j j
opponents by open avowals of hostile intentions is also singularly well i (]
adapted to the success of an ambuscade. Injurious as they may seem j | j
to an innocent conscience, it is only too natural that cruel and odious !) j
misconstructions should arise under the circumstances. But I have j (!
steered clear of them myself in those representations of mine to which j S |
Mr. Harrison refers. j j j
It would be impertinent in me to offer any one unasked advice as j (i
to the policy of demanding or the obligation of conceding apologies. ! j j
All I can say to Mr. Harrison on the subject is that if he waits to in
appologise until I have set him the example, I fear the displeasure of j j j
the Council or of its president must remain unappeased, except by j | j
such other measures as in their wisdom and power they may adopt. j ({
C. C. Massey. | (I
Temple, 1st March,     j j j
ASTROLOGY. j [ j
Sir,—The numerous responses I have received to my application for j)!
astrological data oblige me to have recourse to your columns for j j ]
acknowledgment, as it is impossible for me to answer them all indi- i j!
vidually without some delay. To each of my kind assistants who gives | / j
an address I hope, however, soon to write. j (i
I cannot have too many accurate data for my purpose, and hope that i j !
the supply may continue to come in. When, however, the birth is in j | j
a foreign country, the trouble of calculating for a latitude for which I j ( !
do not possess a “ Table of Houses ” is more than it is worth while to j j i
bestow upon individual instances for the purpose in view. Moreover, i j j
some of my correspondents are apparently more desirous to test my j (i
skill than to afford me the means of testing astrology. I will ask | j i
such to remember that I am only a student and experimentalist, j ? |
making no pretensions to be an expert. C. C. Massey. j l j
Temple, March 2nd, 1879. I j j
A SEANCE IN NEWCASTLE AND THOUGHTS THEREUPON.
In view of the interesting discussion on the religious aspects of Spirit¬
ualism, which I find is still being carried on in The Spiritualist, I propose
giving an account of a seance I attended on Sunday, 9th February, to
discover, if possible, if there be any moral element in such physical
facts as I then witnessed, and thereby to refute the statement of Dr. i
Carter Blake, who affirms that they have no moral bearing whatever, j
This we are bound to accept as not only his sincere but matured
opinion. I.
At 10.30 a.m. ten persons seated themselves in semicircular form
around Miss Wood, who was robed in a white jacket (provided by the j
Spiritual Evidence Society), and seated in an arm chair on the outer j
side of the green baize curtains. These were hanging across a corner i
of the room where there are neither cupboards, closets, windows, nor
recesses of any kind which the use of the word “cabinet” suggests.
She was in continuods view of the observers throughout the entire
sitting of about two and a quarter hours duration. Miss Wood sat
facing the curtains, therefore with her back to the sitters, except those
at either end of the circle, who had a side view of the medium’s face.
On Miss Wood’s left hand, and close to the wall, a chair was placed
with a bell; also a piece of flooring deal twenty inches long, six inches
wide, and five-eighths of an inch thick, and an ordinary hand-saw.
These things were so placed by arrangement made at a previous sitting,
when very violent manifestations of physical energy were displayed,
without answering to any purpose or desire of those present, and it was
suggested that the force so displaying itself should be supplied with a
piece of wood and a saw, and that it should manifest its presence at a
subsequent sitting by sawing the wood asunder.
We had not sat long before the chair, along with the articles enume¬
rated, was drawn into the inner side of the curtains, and after those
present had joined in singing for a few minutes, we heard the saw work¬
ing its way—feebly at first—into the wood. But as it continued, it
appeared, judging by the increasing sound, to acquire greater power.
The power was not continuously manifested, as at the end of
about each minute and a half there was a pause for about ten or
fifteen seconds, then the saw resumed its work. The medium was
observed to be sitting quite still; but to make assurance doubly sure,
permission was asked to feel the medium while the saw was working, to
ascertain if there were any motion on her part to account for the motion
of the saw, but the sense of feeling, as declared to by Mr. Norris, was
as incapable as the sight of the other observers to detect the slightest
movement on the part of Miss Wood, who should (which Mr. Norris
felt for as well) have been bathed in perspiration during such display of
physical energy had she been the active agent in the manifestation.
Mr. Norris resumed his seat, and, after listening a few minutes longer
to the working of the saw, a further vigorous display of force was
heard, as if some one were trying to break something by dashing it
against the chair. This was followed immediately by a piece of the
wood being thrown from the inner side of the curtains towards the
sitters. After a pause of about ten minutes in the manifestations the
remainder of the wood was thrown out, and almost simultaneously a
columnar mass of drapery appeared at the aperture of the curtains and
stood there for a couple of minutes. At the urgent request of some of
the sitters the shroud came a little farther out, and moved to a distance
of about two feet from the right of the medium, where it stood appa¬
rently perfectly motionless for about a minute, then retired to the inner
side of the curtains, and reappeared three times. On the third occasion
of its appearance it moved towards the mantelpiece to the right of the
medium, and at a distance of about eighteen inches from Miss Wood,
and, while standing there apparently motionless, the bell was ringing
on the inner side of the curtains, and the chair was being moved about
and used to answer, by signals in the usual way, the questions put by
the sitters. The medium, in apparently an entranced condition, was
speaking, and sitting perfectly still.
The columnar mass of drapery then withdrew to the inner side of the
curtains, when the bell-ringing ceased, and the sitting terminated.
The medium, still in an apparent trance, was requested to remain
seated until the sitters, after the full light was turned on, had examined
the room on both sides of the curtains, with which she readily complied.
After what we had seen we should, ordinarily speaking, have found the
piece of deal flooring uncut, and we should also have found some white
drapery on the inner side of the curtain, as unquestionably it retired
thither. There was not, however, a vestige of anything like a white
substance to be found, though we searched carefully, and the piece of
deal flooring—which was recognised as the piece we provided—was
found to be sawn asunder; it had been sawn four inches transversely,
and the rest sawn asunder at right angles to the transverse cutting. The
light was sufficient to allow three of the sitters to ascertain the time of
day by their watches, and this was verified by comparing notes at the
time.
I know that however deeply rooted the belief or conviction of any
individual may he, it can never be any guarantee of infallibility; but
as the expression of opinions which have been carefully formed, and
are sincerely maintained, does somewhat assist to a greater certainty of
knowledge, I unhesitatingly affirm, after a persistent investigation of
nearly six years—which means attendance, on an average, of two
sittings weekly, at nearly six hundred seances—that the statements I
have just made are, in my judgment, statements of facts, however ante¬
cedently improbable they may appear. Accepting the facts, therefore,
as established, we must primarily ascertain, if possible, the nature of
the force producing the facts before we can well determine their value,
morally or mechanically; and whatever theory we adopt to explain the
phenomena we witnessed in the seance, I think it will be admitted that
there is nothing in common between an ordinary hand-saw and a piece
of timber, which would enable them to place themselves in such juxta¬
position as to result in the saw making a cutting such as I have
described. Unless they were otherwise moved, I suppose it would be
in accordance with exact scientific thought to say that they would be
likely to lie where they were placed, until the timber rotted and the saw
rushed away into the molecules which formed them. It will be further
admitted that self motion does not inhere in the common saw any more
than in the glorious sun, and that to effect a cutting it must have been
guided by an intelligence; and furthermore, as we deliberately and of
aforethought sat for the experiment described, and assuming that the
saw was endowed with power to move of itself, the fulfilment of the
experiment implies consciousness on the part of the saw to cognise our
desires, and to respond to them, a dilemma which the acceptance of the
facts thrusts us into, if we repudiate the intelligence guiding the unseen
hand. If we discard the idea of a saw possessing consciousness, we
are, by the logic of facts, forced to admit that it was some intelligence
March 7, 1879.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
which complied with our requests, because, however subtly Nature may j)
work in some of her departments, her teaching is plain and unmistake- i (
able in the fact that mind only can respond to mind, and that the in- j s
telligent factor in the phenomenon is either the intelligence of the 11
medium working under abnormal conditions, or the intelligence of dis- j \
embodied human beings, or the intelligence of a race of beings, at h
any rate akin to us, though whether higher or lower in the scale of being !)
may be left an open question. j j
The physical facts therefore possess a moral value of transcendent !)
importance, inasmuch as they unfold the action of intelligence, whether | j
it be that of the medium or of a disembodied human being—it does j j
not matter just now which theory we incline to—in a manner we are \)
little familiar with at present; and as intelligence is as often used and i)
applied unwisely, notwithstanding its capacity for infinite expansion j (
and development for useful purposes, the investigator fails in his duty |)
if he restricts his methods of investigation to the exclusion of the !)
intelligent factor in the phenomena. i j
Assuming the phenomena to be produced by the soul of the medium j |
making a sortie out of its dark cottage, the fact of action at a distance j)
is the unfoldment of a possibility making a future life at least more j |
conceivable, and to that extent is a light, and therefore more likely j)
to influence our ideas on a future life than if we had no light at all. | j
But, as all know, Spiritualism is not confined to physical phenomena, j
The facts of clairvoyance, as they are termed, when analysed equally i
unfold intelligence at bottom, and superior in degree to that of the j I
medium; and though it may, after the fact has been established, be j j
ascribed to ecstasy or exaltation of the medium’s faculties, we cannot |,
exclude intelligence operating in the ecstasy except on the hypothesis i i
that the universe is a self-adjusting machine, and that men and women |1
are merely automata. |
In conclusion, I would commend to scientific observers of the facts |
of Spiritualism the words of Professor Huxley :—“ Science prospers |
exactly in proportion as it is religious, and religion flourishes in exact !
proportion to the scientific depth and firmness of its basis. The I
great deeds of philosophers have been less the fruit of their intellect
than of the direction of that intellect by an eminently religious tone
of mind.” John Mould. 1
12, St. Thomas-crescent, Newcastle-on-Tyne, 17th February, 1879.
MEDICO-PSYCHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.*
DY W. HITCHMAN, M.B.C.S.
Afteu some forty years’ dissection of the human brain, from my first |
experience in Fairford Lunatic Asylum, Gloucestershire (where I spent i
a happy pupilage of five years), to my last medico-psychological obser- j
vations in the University of Erlanger [Alma Mater Hahnemanni), I
venture to assert that if there be any morbid anatomy of the cerebral
organ in numerous cases of unsound mind, it consists of some rd fitrd
tol (pvaiKct. of so ethereal or spiritual a nature as to be altogether invisible j
on examination after death, even with the aid of our best microscopes
or other philosophical instruments. Indeed, Dr. Ziemssen did not con¬
trovert my position, though he may question vitalistic principles.
According to reports annually published by the Medical Officers of
Hospitals for the Insane throughout the civilised world, a very common
cause of death in mad patients is chronic disease of the thoracic and
abdominal viscera, tuberculous or fungoid, especially of the organs of i
respiration, with loss of nervous tone or paralysis, morbid conditions of the j
blood, and often “ some change which we cannot detect.” Shade of St. j
Patrick! And the record is equally true whether the sufferer laboured j
under illusions, hallucinations, delusions, or saw and held converse with j
subjective or objective beings. In fact, one man without physical disorder
of any kind, apparently, may be essaying to transform beautiful clouds !
into the angels of heaven, and sounding the last trumpet of old i
mortality; whilst another poor wretch is busy in devising all sorts of |
plans to escape from the grip of Satan, or the most odious and appal¬
ling of reptiles; and yet a third I have seen in the same Continental j
establishment skilfully assuming a pugilistic attitude to box an adjacent
steeple, which he mistakes for some gigantic Bavarian, or, perhaps, the
champion of England in days of yore. Nevertheless, this last patient
assured me confidentially that his two companions were “ such fools as
to believe that they were joined together by nature like the Siamese j
twins.” May it not be that such lunatics have broken spiritual rather j
than physical laws of our being P I think it untenable to maintain with ex¬
clusive materialists that from the standpoint of molecular physics insane [
persons may h&ve fatal disease of the brain, or membranes, without leaving |
any structural change. Truly mental aberration may accompany depressed
vitality, which manifests itself with specific force on the hemispherical
ganglia, or nervous masses of cerebral organisation, and causes that loss j
of static equilibrium without whose energetic influence there is neither |
healthy tone nor manly vigour. But is this interior process wholly j
physical throughout 1 Of course it is not impossible that insanity may
co-exist with some form of interstitial change, wherein the active
cerebral molecules suffer temporary diminution, and inert materials
being deposited, the substance of the brain, the white matter of the
tubes, or the minute grey vesicles may be insufficiently nourished. If
brain were the sole fans et origo of soul and spirit, as strongly enforced
by fascinating professors upon fashionable assemblages in these days,
there ought not to be so many fatal cases of mental aberration without
some decisive proofs of disintegration. One might rationally expect such
autopsies to disclose to the dissector, more frequently, certain evidences
of increased weight, actual shrinking of cerebrum, cerebellum, pons and
crura, or medulla oblongata, and, scarcely less, overladen blood vessels,
augmented serous effusions, opaque or thickened membranes, deposi¬
tions of coagulable lymph, unnatural adhesions, abscesses, partial or
| Abstract of a paper read at a recent meeting of Liverpool Anthropological Society.
general paralysis, and the like. Not illogically, I think, if there be no
mind without brain, acute and chronic insanity ought never to exist in
the absence of morbid alterations of the cranium or its contents. Yet it
is now an established truth, doubted by no psychological physician I
ever met with in Europe, that in a very considerable number of cases
of insanity, and in every known variety of madness, anatomical exami-
ination by expert alienists, however minutely or scientifically conducted,
only reveals a healthy brain, spinal cord, and nerves, despite organic
disease elsewhere.
If it is said that mental derangement is often due to invisible nervous
irritation, or imperceptible changes in molecular nutrition, the cerebral
hypotheses in question may sound plausible to disbelievers in the
possibility of immaterial causes, the men who teach our rank and
fashion—“modern society”—that they are mere automata, human
machines, without free-will or future life ; but the impartial medico-
psychological observer may be excused for supposing that certain
mysterious phenomena he witnesses in the relations of body and soul
are just as explicable (to say the least) on the metaphysical or spiritual
theory of insanity, as by the materialistic exegesis of unseen and
unknown disorders of brain, implicating tubular or medullary matter,
bundles of fine areolar tissue, nervous loops and plexuses, neurilemma,
dura mater, arachnoid membrane and pia mater, not leaving a particular
or physical wreck in the general crush of psychic or intellectual func¬
tions, the moral sense being evolved from atoms, and never involved in
The Mind of Nature, or otherwise.
Are not spiritual causes adequate to account for moral insanity, to
wit, apart from the acknowledged nullities of pathological anatomy ?
Here we have downright perversion of the natural feelings, affections,
temper, habits, and moral dispositions, with disorder of the intellect
proper, in thousands of instances. Eccentricity of conduct merges into
madness; and these numerous lunatics, with no known physical ailment
whatever before or after death, are forcibly impelled, as if by the
resistless coercion of a fiend, to commit the most loathsome abomina¬
tions, inflict senseless mutilations, or perpetrate unutterable crimes—a
very shocking example of which occurred in Liverpool quite recently.
In short, each Assize Calendar furnishes sad examples of the operation
of some direful propensity, which effectually overcomes the feeble,
unsound will, and every species of mischief is committed, morally,
socially, and physically. Or is the remnant of the lower animal
not yet eliminated from the mind and matter of man ? The
anatomist, of all “scientists” (odious word!), does not ignore the
vestiges of her bivora and carnivora, which he finds in his own genus
as supra-condyloid processes, deviations of median nerve and humeral
artery, or appendix cceci vermiformis, and other indelible stamps of his
lowly origin, physically. Not seldom, indeed, those male and female
lunatics, to whom I previously adverted, having sound animal bodies,*
but, alas, very unholy souls, assume a sudden and violent destructive
tendency. They steal, murder, lie, set houses on fire, and cruelly assault
the innocent and the helpless, as though such were diabolically em¬
phasised into prominence. Who shall decide from restrictive know¬
ledge of the brain and nervous system, peripheral and central, or mental
phenomena, treated only as physiological and psychological aspects of
anatomical substrata, and their molecular correlations, what is really
the whole truth ? What invisible agent metamorphoses the cerebral
cortex, or basis cranii, in an instant ? What potency of matter has
altered the fatty acid, in combination with soda, albumen, phosphoros,
salts, and water, to such an extent as to change the very character of
11 man, spiritually and abruptly, without obvious reason, from sobriety,
11 candour, and probity, to dipsomania, unfairness, and vice ? Moreover,
11 what exclusive physicist can draw a line of demarcation between higher
11 states of somnambulism and lower analogous conditions of unsound
11 mind ? In the former mental phenomena there is a temporary increase
I of normal talent—often prodigious in sensitive souls—a complete trans-
11 formation of morals and manners, a duality of existence, indeed, even
•! in flesh and blood—Leib und Seele—with a marvellous clear-sightedness,
or spiritual vision of the distant future, as well as esoteric knowledge of
11 present things, exoteric and remote, together with commensurate powers
j I of rhetoric, and elegant, refined expressions, in language foreign to the
| speaker’s habit of thought and education. I have seen other examples
11 of intellectual and moral somnambulism, evidently allied to ethical and
j | mental abnormalities, but without discoverable disease after death.
I Are all such mortals seized bodily, ab extra ? Do angels or demons
! besiege or obsess them ? Professor Delitzsch, of Erlangen, I remember,
I affirmed this doctrine in his numerous theological works, professorial
j lectures in the University, and erudite Biblical psychology. We know
j that many illustrious men have been subject to kindred spiritual im-
11 pressions once considered wholly false, yet scientific inquiry has since
) I proved them more or less true, substantially. The list comprises
|! Socrates, Dante, Ariosto, Luther, Cromwell, Milton, Johnson, Pascal,
] | Goethe, Swedenborg, Cellini, Shelley, Brougham, and a host of angelic
! souls. I hold it to be a sufficient answer to prejudiced “scientists”
i (though neither a bigoted materialist nor exclusive Spiritualist), on the
] i part of a truthful catholic investigator of Nature, when he can point in-
) i controvertibly to the actual performance of intellectual or spiritual
j! functions, with the nervous communication broken inwards from the
II organs of sense and outwards from the muscles, and fairly inquire of
11 them (without reference to well-authenticated cases of sabre wounds of
) | skulls, in which the brain of each soldier was deeply sliced and the mind
j | left sound) by virtue of what prerogative, brain-tissue, in these circum-
) | stances, remains the centre of sole intelligence and sole action to which
) | all sensations are alone referred, and from which all volitions only
|! emanate. The ex-parte archaeology, or neurology, now taught in ordinary
) i schools of medicine, approves itself to scientific psychology in 1879, as
) I demonstrated in the colleges of New York by such advanced philosophers
* Patients are often “ happy ’’ in advanced insanity. I have seen lunatics (belonging
to every clime and every country, as well as colour) grow fat and strong without health of
mind.
118
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 7, 1879.
as Professors Wilder and Buchanan, much after the manner of John
Wesley’s “ certain, cures ” for consumption, gout, and strangulated
hernia. The poor victim of phthisis was ordered to lose six ounces of
blood each day for a fortnight, “ if he or she live so long ” (sic)—the
gentleman’s malady being easily cured by the application of a raw, lean
beefsteak; and for twisting of the bowels, with stricture and obstruction,
three pounds of quicksilver in water were declared to be a never-failing
infallible remedy. Alas! then hopeless anguish poured his groan.
Death broke at once the vital chain,
And freed his soul the nearest way.
Happily, the great Methodist preacher, who announced other un¬
natural methods of “ curing ” mortal complaints, did more good to the
souls of his followers by spiritual advice than to their bodies by mercury
and bleeding. Withal, the flesh of an ox might benefit an ass ! Eminent
persons have often quaint psychical notions, as well as queer physical
habits. Hobbes drank cold water, like a “ Leviathan,” when he wished
to induce great intellectual effort. Newton and Hahnemann, the giants
of physical and medical sciences, smoked incessantly. Bonaparte took !
snuff readily (but not England). Byron sipped gin and water gaily.
Lord Ashburton blistered his chest in order to evoke a speech from his
heart. Lord Erskine took opium on the trial of Queen Caroline, and
eventually dropped into the arms of Lord Stanhope with brilliant effect.
Pitt, Fox, and Sheridan were heavy draughtsmen in the zenith of their
oratorical splendour. Similar examples crowd on one’s mind in the
course of medico-psychological observations ; but doubtless many such i
are equally familiar to your numerous and enlightened readers.
Mental disorders, I submit with confidence, are not always dependent j
on disease of brain and body in a material sense. What is the issue of i
this medical opinion ? Simply this—and nothing more ! Their cure |
or relief is more often brought about by moral, mesmeric, dynamic, or I
spiritual remedies; in fact, dietetics oe the soul. This art of healing j
involves no farriery or firing, nor yet poisonous drugs or chemicals.
Bather it necessitates closer attention to hygienic principles and natural j
philosophy, by way of temperament, diathesis, idiosyncrasy, age, sex,
race, climate, education, occupation, diet, air, light, water, and habits of j
body and mind, respectively. The best medicine of materia medica and
therapeutics has proved in my medico-psychological practice one pilule, j
seldom repeated, and duly prepared from a high dilution of the required j
agent. This has elective affinities in the functions of vessels of extreme
minuteness, influencing analogous morbid derangements, according to the J
law of scientific correspondence, subserving nutrition and repair, whilst ]1
changing the conditions of inflammation, irritation, and congestion of j
capillaries. j i
And this, too, whether homoeopathic medicines are dynamised by the j 1
chemist proper (as I believe them to be), or owe their efficacy to the i
power of the soul over the body. The Editor of the British Medical \
Journal makes himself merry on the gratuitous assumption (p. 229) ! j
that homoeopathy is synonymous with hope and emotion; globules and i
water, or “ sugar,” being equivalents. Be it so. What of bread pills j
and mixtures of mere colouring matter, or the same aqua pura-f I can j (
point him to various so-called illustrations of “successful treatment,” i
in different orthodox medical periodicals, when and where the patients j j
alluded to never took a drop or particle of such liquids or solids, i |:
though ordered by “ the heads of the profession!” Old physic may yet j (j
excel in these felicities. But I must needs stop, for sake of space, j ] i
To recapitulate, I will only add that I have observed insanity, after ! | j
childbirth and otherwise, with epilepsy, paralysis, intellectual disorders, I | i
delirious ideas, anomalies of thought, sentiment, will, sensation, move- | ( •
ment, suicidal tendencies, melancholia, maniacal excitement, profound j > !
dejection, hypochondriasis, stupor, exaltation, monomania, and ! |
dementia. And I say that in every form of madness, whether arising j ( j'
from psychical causes, mixed causes, or physical causes only, life j j j
is destroyed in a crowd of ruined minds, so far as visible elements are 11 j
concerned, and no bodily abnormality can be found, which justifies ( j
belief in cerebral physiology and the materialistic “ doctrines of soul.” );
Let me not be egregiously misunderstood. I believe as firmly as do / i
the editors of Brain, or the Journal of Mental Science, that inflamma- (j
tion of the grey substance, extending over a number of convolu- 1 j
tions, acute oedema of the larger hemispheres, extensive meningitis of (|
the convex surface, rapid bilateral atrophy, or deep alteration of the | (!
ventricular portion of the brain, may be sometimes observed with severe j /1
psychical disturbances; but my contention is briefly this, after forty j (i
years’ dissection, there is no demonstrable specific lesion of the cerebral | | j
organ in cases of insanity; hence the anomalies of self-consciousness, j)j
and other invincible facts of psychology, tend to show that mind is not ' (j
the exclusive offspring of matter, and that man has a rudimentary j j |
spiritual body. It is the eye of the soul, alone, which perceives j) j
the outlines of conscious permanence, all fluctuating eddies in the | (j
vortex of brain-protoplasm, notwithstanding. Infinite minuteness con- j j |
cerns one hardly less than infinite magnitude in nature. Lord Beacons- ! )!
field has declared himself “ on the side of angels, as against the ape! (j
but after-dinner ridicule is no test of truth. Man is an animal, j j |
dependent upon psychological laws, however descended; and we know j \ I
that the antiquity of the earth, not less than the antiquity of our race, j (|
was as much derided as is the theory of development in body, soul, and j > i
spirit. In brutes we see evidences of our own passions and other ten- ] j j
dencies—vanity, gratitude, love, honour, duty, some of the higher and | (]
lower qualities of mind. Nature becomes more soothing as we grow J 11
more spiritual, and show ourselves worthier of loftier destiny. j i
Nur allein der Mensch > I
Vennag das Unmogliche. j ( I
Er nnterscheidet, wahlet und richtet, (!
Er kann dem Augenblick | j i
Dauer verleihen, ji
The Finance Committee meet on Tuesday next at 6 p.m. i \ i
| SUNDAY SEKVICES AT THE CAVENDISH BOOMS.
THE HEAVEN OP THE SPIRITUALIST.
) Mr. Fletcher delivered an inspirational address at the Cavendish
| j Booms, London, last Sunday, at 7.45 p.m. Every available seat was
> | taken.
11 The lecturer spoke as follows:—The question which has been asked
! I in all ages, by every people, and in every clime, is, “ Is there a Heaven ?”
Every class of men, however enlightened or unenlightened they may
| be, seems to instinctively feel that this earth is not our continual abiding
place, but that there is another land where, after the diseased body has
been shaken off, the weary soul may find rest. Each individual forms
his own heaven, and it is intensely interesting to the historical student
| to mark the different pictures each mind creates of this future home of
! soul. The Indian feels that there is a happy hunting ground beyond
the stars, which embodies all the pleasures of this life, and none of its
pains, where the constant twittering of the song birds evidences that in
that climate it is perpetual spring. He believes that the hunting ground
will be all his own, and that the pale-faced intruder will be driven back
by the natural law of repulsion. So he robes his dead in the brightly-
| coloured blanket, places his tomahawk and all implements of war at his
side, and sends him out to the care of that great Manitou who lives
] somehow, somewhere, above the reach of earthly bribery and tyranny,
| and will, in some manner, deal kindly and justly with the dead warrior
| friend they are sending to his eternal home. To the more en¬
lightened mind this idea of heaven, in many of its phases, seems
absurd, and the most absurd part is to feel that these unlettered and bar-
| barous savages should conceive that there was a heaven at all for them.
| They know of no Bibles; the crucifixion of Jesus took place before their
race was spoken of historically. They detested priests and burned
missionaries; so, with every idea in their minds anti-Christian, how
could they expect that heaven was large enough to devote even a spot
of its narrow circumference to their detested race 1 Consequently,
these more enlightened people draw the area of heaven a square smaller,
and their first Christian improvement was to leave out the happy hunting
grounds of the Indian. Each theological sect has formed its own heaven
according to the tenets of its particular creed, and the first Christian
sect made heaven the exact size of their society, giving it only flexibility
enough to admit the few noble ones who might thereafter become con¬
verted to their faith; and so far as people who martyred the foxes and
kept alive the Spanish Inquisition were concerned, this heaven was large
enough to satisfy even their most exalted demands. But, as civilisation
advanced, churchiality died out, and real Christianity tried to assert
itself; and, as the intellect of the people expanded, the inhabitable
capacity of heaven enlarged with it. For we find the noble reformers of
all ages saying—We need a heaven large enough, not only for ourselves,
but for those who may differ from us in religious sentiments, and yet in
heart be equally as good and true as are we. For years this sentiment
was called liberal, and the masses were satisfied. But still the truth
was steadily marching onward, and new souls brought new demands.
As the Hindoo mother had questioned the propriety of throwing her babe
into the Ganges, so the modern mother, recognising fully the limits of
heaven, and the enormous capacity of that traditional place of punish¬
ment located just beneath the throne of God, questioned her right of
tossing upon this Ganges of Life the tiny soul that was quite as likely
to be swallowed up by the turbulent wave of misery as the pearl-crested
billow of happiness. To-day we have reached a new era—a period when
the tiny child questions, “ If my bird is dead, where has he gone ? ” and
in its infantile conception has found the solution of that deep puzzle of
the ages. He finds that the lifeless bird retains everything but his
song; the music only is gone out of him, and true to the law of
attraction, the melody has rolled home. The new thought of the age is
not “ What shall I win ? ” but “ What do I deserve The atheist, in
studying the laws of nature, finds that all life is compensational. No
flower c&aws life from the soil without returning a higher quality of life,
as if it were instinctively moral, and were repaying its debt to nature
with compound interest. The lily, as it draws pure life from the black
soil, is sending through every fold of its waxen petals a perfumed tribute
to the dusky-faced mother who gave it birth. And the infidel to religion,
who watches the daily outpouring of individual life upon the earth and
the flowers, and aspirationally upon the stars, feels that, although no
theological heaven awaits such an one, all nature recognises the tribute
man is paying to her bounty, and furnishes even upon this earth a
sweeter heaven than the theologian in his highest flights of fancy has
ever embodied within the limits of his churchianic creed. The
Spiritualist goes one step further, and recognising that birds must have
nests, the wild animals desert and forest, the parched throat water, and
the aspirational soul fruition, finds his heaven bounded only by the
number and capacity of the population not only of this world, but of
all worlds. It finds the miser’s heaven covered with the mesmeric
firmament as yellow as the colour of his idolised gold. This world
allows him to acquire and bury his treasure. God allows him to stand
by the open grave until the yellow dross of selfishness and penury has
changed under the pure sun of aspiration to the ethereal light of bene¬
volence and truth. The little child has its heaven also, in its capacity
for growth; but innocence is not always wisdom, and not until it has
been cradled in the mother’s arms, until earthly experiences shall have
begotten spiritual wisdom, can it enter the joys of that new Jerusalem
ready for the sanctified soul. Not until we have known the full value
of the thorns will experience convert them into flowers, and not
until we know the fulness of human souls can we even conceive the
divinity of God, nor until we have tasted the dainties of this life can
we sup upon the celestial delicacies of another. Exhaust the resources
of this world, then the soul has a moral right to cry for the luxury of
another ; but so long as there is a duty left unfulfilled, a thorn unplucked,
a kind word left unsaid, or a wrong unrequited, the arisen soul cannot
hope to be released from the earthly tribute which nature exacts from
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 7, 1879.
]]9
every individual in payment for the life-sweets plucked from her
exhaustless store-house of love. Heaven, then, is just what we mak e
it, and not until we learn to do right for right’s sake, irrespective of the j
creeds of either Church or State, can we hope to have even a foretaste
of the real heaven which awaits that spirit, which through death, and
duty well performed, has been made absolutely free.
At the close of the lecture Mr. Fletcher gave a number of public
tests, six in all, and which were responded to by those in the audience
to whom the messages were addressed,
The subject for next Sunday evening is “ Life in the Transition j
Sphere,” j
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIEITUALISTS.
Mr. Harrison says:—I have received the following letter :
1, Hereford-square, South Kensington, S.'W., 3rd March, 1879.
Dear Sir,—In reply to your letter of the 26th February, the charges to J
which I referred as being wholly unfounded are those of “ trick and sub- I
terfuge,” for it was in relation to them that I urged an apology. I)
To discuss the intentions of the Council (as to the measure of the power j
given to the committee) after such a decisive expression of its will, thirteen (
to two, appears to me superfluous, The question having passed from opinion j
to fact, that the Council abundantly identifies itself with the committee, leaves j
no room for any doubt or controversy. J
If you are not satisfied with the vote, and believed there was something j I
wrong, your obvious course was to give notice for a re-discussion of the ques- j
tion, rather than condescend to use language applicable to impostors, and
which cannot surely be appreciated by any right-thinking person. j
At all events, be so good as to notice that all expressions of respect for me j
sound harsh and unmeaning while you are so lavish of abuse towards a ;
Council over which I have the honour to preside.—Yours faithfully,
Alex. Calder.
W. H. Harrison, Esq. i
The following was my reply :— j
March 5th, 1879. j 1
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Dear Sir,—I asked you to please quote any utterances of mine in full !
which you thought objectionable—not to separate words from the context, j
Readers would then see the merits of the case.
On reference, I find that after stating facts I said that all, taken together, !
amounted to a “ trick ”—“ the whole thing from first to last—the putting j
two or three special people on an already good committee, resulting in four j
votes on one side of a division where otherwise there would have been but i
two, and the wording of the resolution to make it cover things which the |
Council never intended.”
Two of these extra voters on the committee turned a minority into a j
majority, so their appointment has been the cause of widespread public j
inharmony.
Briefly, this is a summary of what took place, and you are aware that the !
following facts are truly stated, without exaggeration :—
1. That Miss Kislingbury, having resigned, and left rooms empty, it became necessary to |
appoint a new secretary; also to decide what was to be done with her vacated apartments, !
and who was to control the house and the housekeeper.
2. Mr. Dawson Rogers moved, and Mr. Morell Theobald seconded—" That a committee be j
appointed to consider the question of the future secretaryship, and the general house j
arrangements, and to bring up their recommendations to the next meeting of the Council j
for consideration,” &c.
3. That not one word was said by the mover or seconder, or anybody else, of the words
“ general household arrangements.. being intended to deal with my tenancy.
4. That nobody uninformed by those who knew the intention would be likely to have j
guessed it, there being public questions involved which had previously occupied specially •
convened meetings of the whole Council, called together by printed circular. Nobody
would, therefore, have guessed that the subject was actually being dealt with without
notice, mention, or discussion ; much less that the Council was then delegating a special¬
meeting-subject to a committee ; much less, again, that it was delegating it without a word
of direct instructions ; much less, again, would it have been possible, without an amend¬
ment from me, for Mr. Dawson Rogers—who has, notoriously, long shown strong antagonism
to me—to nominate special voters to go on an already efficient committee which had to do
with my affairs.
5. There was a unanimous vote for the apparently routine resolution by the unsuspecting
Council. Mr. Bennett has just published that several members of the Council “ distinctly
understood ” that the resolution was intended to deal with my tenancy. You, sir, know
that they all kept a dead silence about what they intended.
6. Messrs. Bennett and Rogers were those who subsequently specially forced the previously
unmentioned subject on the committee, in spite of the protests of Mr. Massey and others.
The voters on their side were Mr. Bennett, Mr. FitzGerald, Mr. Rogers, and Miss Withall—
the two last being among the voters who had just been unnecessarily added to a previously
efficient committee. By means of those two votes added to the other two, a majority of one j
was obtained.
The whole of these things together I stated to amount to a <{ trick.” I with¬
drew the word out of personal respect to you, leaving the public to call it what
they like. At all events, as the facts came under the disinterested direct
observation of one of your vice-presidents, Mr. 0. 0. Massey, the barrister who
fought in the Slade case, and publicly risked his reputation by siding with
Spiritualism at the moment of its greatest unpopularity—these things had such
an effect on his mind, that he has therefore abruptly quitted the Association
altogether.
I think you are in error in assuming the word “ trick ” to be synonymous
with “ imposture,” a meaning I never dreamt of conveying. There are tricks !
at cards, monkey tricks, and tricks which may otherwise be described as j
“dodges.” When Columbus made the egg stand on end it was a trick, and a j
discreditable one too.
You ask why I did not move reconsideration of the matter. Because it is ]
no affair of mine, any more than that of any other private member. I have j
left the Council, and repudiated the principles commonly put in force by the j
majority of the very few regularly working members. Although I have no |
personal interest in the matter, I think the Council has a strong interest in
reconsidering its position as a body which has hastily endorsed the above
manoeuvres, and in a few minutes laid down a precedent—laid down a code of I
honour—on which it and its committees are to work in the future.—Truly j
yours, W. H. Harrison. I
P.S.—I think if you re-read this and my other letters, you will find they j
consist of calm statements of fact, not of “ abuse.” I am so dispassionate in i
the matter, that if you leave off corresponding with me, and can get Mr. j
Massey to say that I ought to do this, that, or the other, I will abide by his j
decision, !
PEIVATE SEANCES.
! Last Wednesday night, at a seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s
i 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, Mr. C. E. Williams was
the medium. The guests sat, in the dark, round a table in the
j following order : — Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mrs. Wiseman, of
i 1, Orme-square, Bayswater; Mr. Williams, Lady X.  (who does
| not wish her name to be published), Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. Harrison,
j Mr. Annesley Mayne, of the Junior Carlton Club; and Miss Houghton.
Thus Mr. Williams, off his own premises, had his hands held all
through the seance by two responsible witnesses, one on each side of
him.
Many of the usual manifestations took place, but the chief features
of the sitting were that one of the spirits materialised himself four or
five times, and once or twice over the centre of the table, so that
everybody present could see the form from head to waist; it was
draped in white ; and all saw that it was an active and living being,
j illuminating its face by a flashing phosphorescent-looking light held in
its hands.
On the previous Wednesday, at Mrs. Gregory’s circle with the same
j medium, nothing much took place, except that in faint gaslight, while
j Mr. Serjeant Cox could be seen holding one of the hands of Mr.
Williams, and Mrs. Wiseman the other, a chair behind Mr. Williams
i took a run of about two feet to the side of his seat, and then the unseen
j spirits moving it tried to put it on the top of the table. It rose two or
j three times till its seat touched the edge of the table; then gave up the
) attempt. Nothing much took place afterwards, the spirits saying that
j they had exhausted the power in trying to give manifestations through
! Mr. Williams’s mediumship in the light.
ALLEGED EFFECTS OF MESMERISM.
The Paris correspondent of the Boston (U.S.) Advertiser,
j; in a letter dated Dec. 30th, 1878, makes a statement about
the effects of mesmerism upon the late Princess Louise, of
j Schleswig-Holstein, which we quote, but alter the word
| “ magnetism,” wherever used by the correspoadent, to
| “ mesmerism: ”—
Thirteen years ago a singular case came before my notice.
I The Princess Louise of Schleswig-Holstein (since dead) had
I consulted a certain Dr. Thompson, in London, for a terrible
I protrusion of the eyeballs, upon which nothing seemed to
take effect. He mesmerised her every day during several
| weeks, but to no purpose. Losing all faith in the efficacy
I of mesmerism in her special case she returned to Paris,
where I saw her constantly. Sometimes in the midst of
conversation, utterly foreign to Dr. Thompson or his science,
| she would become suddenly nervous and pale, and, the
| muscles of her face strangely contracted, she would say:
| u Oh! that dreadful Dr. Thompson is thinking of me. How
I wish I had never seen the man ! ” On one occasion she
! said to me: “ Never be mesmerised. The influence under
| which you will be all your life is something thoroughly dis-
I agreeable ! ” One day as we were sitting together, conversing
j on a personally interesting subject, she suddenly sprang to
{ her feet and said : “ Dr. Thompson is on his way to Paris,
i He is thinking of me.” I tried to laugh her out of the
idea, but presently she continued: “ He has reached the
j station and I shall see him to-day.” The facts Were in con-
I formity with her words, and when, on meeting Dr. Thompson
that afternoon, she begged him to remove the mesmeric
i current which so annoyed her, he frankly admitted that he
| could not. All that lay in his power to do was to think of
j her as little as possible, and never exercise his will. With
time the effects would wear off.
Statements of scientific importance of this kind would be
valuable if authenticated by the name and address of the
writer.
A Working Majority.—If the members of the National Association of
Spiritualists reconstruct the Council, by reducing its members to a reasonable
number—say to fifteen persons—all will be peace and harmony, because then
they can select well-known public workers, and not be obliged, as at present,
to elect some individuals, of whom they know little or nothing, to fill up.
About three-fourths the “ working ” members—some ten or twelve people
only—belong to the latter category, but they govern the whole Association ;
the other fourth of the workers consist of known public men among Spirit¬
ualists who have done something for the good of the movement, but these few
are always liable to be outvoted. Four-fifths of the present enormous Council
consist of a considerable proportion of good and efficient members, but they
are absentees, with the exception of some who attend irregularly. If the
t three-fourths of the workers—those who now govern everything—are strongly
desired to hold their positions on the Council by the members at large, they
■ have an excellent chance of publicly proving it by inaugurating an election
[ which will result in the appointment of a Council of but fifteen members,
i When they come out at the top of the poll, and their opponents are nowhere
i how satisfactorily they could point to the untrustworthiness of these remarks!
i They are not likely to try it, though.
120
THE SPIRII
THE DEAD FEAST OF THE KOL-FOLK.
CHOTA NAGPOOR.
We have opened the door,
Once, twice, thrice!
We have swept the floor,
We have boiled the rice.
Come hither, come hither,
Come from the far lands,
Come from the star lands,
Come as before!
We lived long together,
We loved one another;
Come back to our life.
Come father, come mother,
Come sister and brother,
Child, husband, and wife,
For you we are sighing.
Come, take your old places,
Come look in our faces,
The dead on the dying,
Come home!
We have opened the door,
Once, twice, thrice !
We have kindled the coals,
And we boil the rice
!For the feast of souls.
Come hither, come hither!
Think not we fear you,
Whose hearts are so near you.
Come tenderly thought on,
Come all unforgotten,
Come from the shadow-lands,
From the dim meadow-lands
Where the pale grasses bend
Low to our sighing.
Come father, come mother,
Come sister and brother,
Come husband and friend,
The dead to the dying,
Come home!
We have opened the door
You entered so oft;
For the feast of souls
We have kindled the coals,
And we boil the rice soft.
Come you who are dearest
To us who are nearest. |
Come hither, come hither,
From out the wild weather; i
The storm-clouds are flying,
The peepul is sighing,
Come in from the rain.
Come father, come mother,
Come sister and brother,
Come husband and lover,
Beneath our roof-cover
Look on us again,
The dead on the dying,
Come home !
We have opened the door!
For the feast of souls
We have kindled the coals
We may kindle no more!
Snake, fever, and famine, L
The curse of the Brahmin ;
The sun and the dew, j
They burn us, they bite us,
They waste us and smite us ;
Our days are but few !
In strange lands far yonder
To wonder and wander
We hasten to you.
List then to our sighing, j
While yet we are here :
Nor seeing nor hearing,
UALIST. March 7, 1879.
We wait without fearing,
To feel you draw near.
Oh dead to the dying
Come home!
—John Greenleaf Whittier in Atlantic Monthly.
Spiritualism and Lunacy.—Mr. Ashcroft, of Hartlepool, writes to
us :—“ Will you kindly state in next Saturday’s edition of your valuable
journal, if you possess the information, what number of inmates there
are in the lunatic asylums of the United States of America, and what
proportion are caused by Spiritualism ?” The question is one of some
interest, and was at one time much discussed in society and in pro¬
fessional circles. Very wild statements have been made in point on the
subject; and one medical gentleman, writing as an alienist, assuming to
have authority, published a little monograph on the subject, in which, if
we remember aright, he stated that the inmates of American asylums
whose insanity was to be traced to Spiritualism numbered thousands,
if not tens of thousands. Of course, if that had been even approxi¬
mately true, it would have been important to ascertain how many of
these thousands had become insane by reason of their addiction to
Spiritualism, and how many had become Spiritualists by reason of their
insane tendencies. It is, however, a wise preliminary to all such
inquiries to obtain, as far as possible, a basis of fact. In response,
therefore, to the inquiry of our correspondent, we have been at the pains
to turn over a file of last year’s reports of American State Asylums. In
these reports appear the tables of assigned causes of insanity among
the inmates, amounting to 14,550. The asylums in question are three
in Virginia—East, West, and Coloured; Wisconsin; New York;
Pennsylvania and Taunton for Massachusetts. The two latter include
causes of insanity over a series of years during which the asylums have
been open. The only cases in this list attributed to Spiritualism are
four cases reported from the lunatic hospital for the State of Pennsyl¬
vania.—British Medical Journal, Feb. 15, 1879.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
F., Bath.—We do not know when the work you mention is coming out.
A., St. Petersburg,—Posted to you on March 5th.
Mr. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, is in urgent want of in¬
formation where to find records of the experiments incidentally referred to
in Mrs. Crowe’s Night Side of Nature, in which Auguste Muller, of
Karlsruhe, is said when mesmerised to have several times appeared
spiritually at a distant place. Professor Keiser is said to have described
the phenomena. Certificates of any similar experimental results with
other mesmerised sensitives are wished for without delay.
Just Published,
SPIRIT-IDENTITY,
By M.A. (Oxon).
Cloth 8vo, red edges, price 5s, post free.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London, W.C.
Price Five Shillings. Post free. Cloth. Richly gilt.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL”
Contains, among various standard specimens of the work of some of the best
minds in Spiritualism, a portion of the continuation of
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD,
Purporting to have been given by the spirit of Charles Dickens through a
writing medium; the selections display the humour and genius of Dickens.
The book also contains some
SPIRIT TEACHINGS,
Given through the mediumship of ff M.A. (Oxon).”
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Price 3s. fid. Post Free. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 407 pp.
STUDIEN UBER DIE GEISTERWELT,
By the Baroness Adelma yon Vay (Countess Wurmbrand).
Also, by the same Authoress, price 2s. fid., post free (Illustrated with diagrams),
HEIST, KRAFT, STOFF.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth. Crown 8vo.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND SOMNAMBULISM.
By Edwin Lee, M.D.,
Corresponding member of the Medical Academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich,
Brussels, Madrid, Turin, and Florence. Author of the Prize Essay on
“Mesmerism and Therapeutics,” awarded by the Milan Society for the
Promotion of Science, Arts, and Letters.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
Price Five Shillings. Post Free. Cloth.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Given through the inspirational mediumship of Thomas Lake Harris. These
poems, given while Mr. Harris was in a state of trance, are of rare literary
excellence.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, Bloomsbury, London.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 7, 1879.
iii
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
BESEARCHESm THE PHENOMENA OP SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, E.R.8. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
THE SOUL OP THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor oi
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in "The Spiritualist" was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
urther expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols, 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
WORlvS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. ,,
The Seer. „ III. „
The Reformer „ IY. „
The Thinker. ,, V. . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil . .
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
ihe Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures
s. d.
0
J 6
r e
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . • 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spibitualisi Newspaper . 2 6
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism 14
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my;Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-HincC; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 12 6
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople . ... 1 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Sgandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . IS 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . 10 6
NEATLY PRINTED LEAFLETS
Containing instructions
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME,
With no Spiritualist or Professional Medium present, may be
obtained at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, price
800 /or Sixpence, post free, or 500for Ninepence, post free.
These leaflets are specially suitable
FOR DISTRIBUTION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS,
And in localities where mediums and spirit circles are not
numerous.
The Spiritualist says;—“ Contention about Spiritualism and
mediums should be avoided, and action substituted. The real
strength of Spiritualism lies far more in its facts than in
clamouring about them; the facts, therefore, should be multi¬
plied by the wholesale dissemination of printed information
how to form circles in the homes of private families. A pro
portion of those who receive the information will try experi¬
ments, and those who obtain the phenomena in their own
homes will at once irrevocably recognise as impostors or dis¬
reputably unsafe guides, those newspapers .and individuals
who state authoritatively that the facts are not true. If every
Spiritualist makes it binding upon himself to ‘drop about ’ or
distribute five hundred of the leaflets, Containing instructions
how to form spirit circles at home, the whole nation will be
deluged with useful information, and such a number of
mediums will spring up in private families, as to rapidly in¬
crease the knowledge of truths calculated to benefit in the
highest degree this materialistic, consequently irreligious age.’.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description o/ Manifestation
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Authob and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit 'world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp doth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Post Free. Price Five Shillings Cloth.
(With a Frontispiece.)
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY.
BY EPES SARGENT.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—The Materialisation of Spirits in the Past-
Psychics—Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spirits—Tangible Apparitions—
The Materialisation of Spirits through Kate Fox, J. Koons, the
Davenport Brothers, D. D. Home, and Ferdinand Jencken—
Spirit Forms, Drapery, and Flowers.
Chapter II.—Phenomenal Proofs of Immortality—Scientific
Theory of Spirit Materialisations—Kant—Emerson—Socrates—
Genesis of the Belief in Immortality.
Chapter III ^Materialisation of Spirits at Moravia, N.Y., and
Elsewhere—Testimony of Various Witnesses—Mediumship of
Mrs. Andrews, Dr. Slade, and Mrs. Hollis Billings—Katie King—
John King.
Chapter IV Materialisations in England—Mediumship of
Mrs. Guppy, Miss Cook, Mr. Williams, Mr. Herne—Experiments
—Testimony of Various Witnesses.
Chapter V Scientific Investigation—Experiments by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S.—Mr. Serjeant Cox—The Dialectical
Society of London—Theory of Psychic Force.
Chapter VI Spirit and Matter—Are there Two Substances ?
—Immateriality—Ancient Belief in Spirits—Immortality in the
Bible — Augustine •— Descartes — Spinoza — Heibert Spencer—
Swedenborg—Proofs of Spirit Power over Matter—Testimony of
S. C. Hall—W. H. Harrison.
Chapter VII The Priority of Spirit—The Senses—Testimony
of Seers—Spirit Photographs—Hegelian Doctrine of Nature—
Ferrier’s Abuse of Spiritualists.
Chapter VlII.—Miss Cook’s Mediumship—Her Own Account
—Testimony of Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, Mrs. Ross-
Church, Miss Kislingbury — Conclusive Experiments by Mr.
Crookes.
Chapter IX.—Phenomena in America—Testimony of Dr. C.
Rane, Mr. R. Dale Owen, Mr. A. B. Crosby, Mrs. A. A.
Andrews, Mr. Irvine, Revd. S. Watson, and Revd. R. S. Pope.
Chapter X.—Materialisations Through the Mediumship of
the Eddy Brothers—Amazing Phenomena.
Chapter XI.—The Spirit Body—Trustworthiness of Seership—
Swedenborg—Kardec—Chaseray—Cabanis—Coleridge—Bacon—
Luther—Calvin—Plutarch—Charles Bonnet—Materialisation of
Clothing and Ornaments.
Chapter XII The Power of Spirit over Matter.
Chapter XIII.—Unity of Forces and Phenomena.
Chapter XIV.—Relations of Spiritualism to Belief in God-
Atheistic Spirits and Seers—Opinions of Mill, Spencer, Lewes,
and Buchner—Design in Nature—Divine Personality.
Chapter XV The Divine Nature Triune.
Chapter xVl.—Relations of Spiritualism to Morality—The
Direct Bearing of Spiritualism on Morality — Sin Punishes
Itself—A Moral Creed—The Teachings of Spiritualism,
Chapter xVlI The Message of Spiritualism — Old Reve¬
lations Made New—Notions of a Future Life — Humboldt —
Newman—Kant—Strauss—Leon Case—Indifference to Life—
Personal Experiences—The Mesmerists—Kerner—Objections to
Spiritualism — The Satanic Theory — Guldenstubbe — James
Martineau—Voysey—Sentiment Must Yield to Facts.
Chapter XVIII.—Further Proofs Palpable — Spirit Photo¬
graphs and Materialisations—The Facts and Inferences—Con¬
cluding Reflections.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Vols. 1 and 2 of The Spiritualist newspaper (pages the size of those
of The Engineer newspaper) strongly and handsomely bound in one
in half calf, red edges. They contain records relating to Spiritualism
in Great Britain from the end of the year 1869 to the end of 1872,
and articles and letters by Messrs. A. R. Wallace, W. Crookes, C. F.
Varley, The Lord Lindsay, and other able writers. Also records of
how the Royal Society aad the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science committed themselves by rejecting Mr. Crookes’s
papers on the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, as the Royal
Society did by rejecting Franklin’s discovery of lightning conductors.
Very scarce. These two volumes cannot be had separately. Price,
carnagelpaid to any railway station in the United Kingdom, £110s,
London: W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O
Price five shillings. Crown 8vo. Post free. Cloth, red edges
The new book by
“M.A. (OXON),' ON
PSYCHOGRAPH Y,
Illustrated with Diagrams,
SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.
List of Works bearing on the Subject.
Preface.
Introduction. .
Psychography in the Past: Guldenstubbfe—Crookes.
Personal Experiences in Private, and with Public Psychics.
General Corroborative Evidence.
I.—That Attested by the Senses:—
1. 0/ Sight.—Evidence of—Mr. E. T. Bennett, a Malvern
Reporter, Mr. James Burns, Mr. H. D. Jencken.
2. Of Hearing.—Evidenee of—Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. George
King, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Canon Mouls, Baroness Von
Vay, G. H. Adshead, W. P. Adshead, E. H.Valter, J. L. O’Sullivan
Epes Sargent, James O’Sargent, John Wetherbee, H. B. Storer
C. A. Greenleaf, Public Committee with Watkins.
II  From the Writing of Languages unknown to the Psychic:—
Ancient Greek—Evidence of Hon. It. Dale Owen and Mr. Black¬
burn (Slade); Dutch, German, French, Spanish, Portuguese
(Slade); Russian—Evidence of Madame Blavatsky (Watkins);
Romaic—Evidence of T. T. Timayenis (Watkins) Chinese (Wat¬
kins).
III  From Special Tests which Preclude Previous Preparation of
the Writing:—
Psychics and Conjurors Contrasted; Slade before the Research
Committee of the British National Association of Spiritualists;
Slade Tested by C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.; Evidence of—Rev. J
Page Hopps, W. H. Harrison, and J. Seaman (Slade); Writing
within Slates securely screwed together—^Evidence of Mrs. An¬
drews and J. Mould; Dictation of Words at the Time of the
Experiment—Evidence of—A. R. Wallace, F.R.G.S., Hensleigh
Wedgwood, J.P.; Rev. Thomas Colley, W. Oxley, George Wvld
M.D., Miss Kislingbury; Writing in Answer to Questions Inside
a Closed Box—^Evidence of Messrs. Adshead; Statement of Cir¬
cumstances under which Experiments with F. W. Monck were
conducted at Keighley; Writing on Glass Coated with White
Paint—Evidence of Benjamin Coleman.
Letters addressed to The Times, on the Subject of the Prosecu¬
tion of Henry Slade, by Messrs. Joy, Joad, and Professor Bar¬
rett, F.R.S.E.
Evidence of W. H. Harrison, Editor of The Spiritualist.
Summary of Facts Narrated.
Deductions, Explanations, and Theories.
The Nature of the Force: Its Mode of Operation—Evidence of
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., and Conrad Cooke, C.E.
Detonating Noises in Connection with it—Evidence of Hens¬
leigh Wedgwood, J. Page Hopps, and Thomas Colley.
The Nature of the Intelligence—Dr. CoUyer’s Theory; Dr,
George Wyld’s Theory; The Occultist’s Theory; The Spiritualist’s
Theorv.
London, W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, richly gilt. Post free.
“RIFTS IN THE VEIL.’'
A collection of choice poems and prose essays given through
mediumship, also of articles and poems written by Spiritualists.
A useful book to place In public libraries,^and to present or send
to those who are unacquainted with Spiritualism. It contains
much about the religious aspects of Spiritualism (given through
the writing-mediumship of “ M.A. (Oxon) ”) and is one of the
most refined and elegant works ever printed in connection with
the movement.
CONTENTS.
Introduction: The Philosophy of Inspiration.
I. —“O! Beautiful White Mother Death.” Given through the
trance-mediumship oi Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
II. —The Apparition of Sengireef. By Sophie Aksakof.
III. —The Translation of Shelley to the Higher Life. Given
through the trance-mediumship of T. L. Harris.
IV. —Gone Home. Given through the trance-mediumship ot
Lizzie Doten.
V The Birth of the Spirit. Given through the trance-medium
ship of Cora L. V. Tappan-Richmond.
Vi.—Angel-Guarded.
VII .—An Alleged Post-Mortem Work by Charles Dickens. How
the writings were produced: The Magnificent Egotist, Sapsea.
Mr. Stollop Reveals a Secret: A Majestic Mind Severely Tried:
Dwellers in Cloisterham: Mr. Peter Peckcraft and Miss Keep:
Critical Comments.
VILI.—The Spider of the Period. By Georgina Weldon (Miss
Treheme) and Mrs. .
IX. —Margery Miller. Given through the trance-mediumship
of Lizzie Doten.
X. —Ode by “ Adamanta.”
XI. —Swedenborg on Men and Women. By William White,
author of The Life of Swedenborg.
XII. —Resurgam By Caroline A. Burke.
XIII. —Abnormal Spectres of Wolves, Dogs, and other Animals
By Emile, Prince of Wittgenstein.
XIV To You who Loved Me. By Florence Marryat.
XV. —Desolation. By Caroline A. Burke.
XVI. —Truth. Given through the mediumship of “M.A .
Oxon.”
XVII. —Th y Love. By Florence Marryat.
XVIII.—Haunting Spirits. By the Baroness Adeima Von Yay
(Countess Wurmbrand).
XIX. —Fashionable Grief for the Departed.
XX. —The Brown Lady of Rainham. By Lucia C. Stone.
XXI. —A Vision of Death. By Caroline A. Burne.
XXII. —A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald.
XXIII.—“ Love the Truth and Peace.” By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXIV. —The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem Spiritualism. By
Louisa Lowe.
XXV. —De Profundis. By Anna Blackwell.
XXVI. —Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C.
Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at
Westminster Hospital.
XXVII.—Die Sehnsucht. Translated by Emily Kislingbury
from the German of Schiller.
XXVIII The Relation of Spiritualism to Orthodox Christianity.
Given through the mediumship of “ M.A., Oxoii."
XXIX. —A Seance in the Sunshine. By the Rev. C. Maurice
Davies, D.D.
XXX. —“ My Saint.” By Florence Marryat.
XXXI. —The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent.
XXXII.—The Touch of a Vanished Hand. By the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.
XXXIll.—Death. By Caroline A. Burke.
XXXIV. — The Spirit Creed. Through the mediumship of
“M.A, Oj.on.” .
XXXV.—The Angel of Silence. By W. H. Harrison.
XXXVI.—ThePredicaon. By Alice Worthington (Ennesfallen).
XXXVII.—Longfellow’s Position in Relation to Spiritualism.
XXXVIII.—Spiritual Manifestations among the Fakirs in India.
By Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Nalural Philosophy,
Berne; translated from Psychic Studies (Leipzic), by Emily Kis-
Ungbury
XXXIX.—The Poetry of Science. By W.H. Harrison.
XL.—Meditation and the Voice of Conscience. By Alex.
Calder.
XLI.—Dirge. By Mrs. Erie Baker.
XLII.—Epigrams. By Gerald Massey.
XLIII Some of the Difficulties of the Clergy in Relation to
Spiritualism. By Lisette Makdougall Gregory.
XLIV.—Immortality. By Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S.
XLV A Child’s Prayer. By Gerald Massey.
London, W.C. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Prica Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
tv
t T* {.41 ' Price .6d.; po'st frcje, 7|4; cloth.
v Peizb Essats.
The PROBABLE EFFECTS, OF spirit¬
ualism UPON THE SOCIAL, MORAL, AND RELI¬
GIOUS' CONDITION OP SOCIETY. ■ Two Essays by Miss
Anna Blackwell and.Mr. G. P. Green.
These Essays won the First and Second gold Medals
of the British National Association op Spiritualists.
y/ie Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, London.
Lunacy law amendment society,
4, 'Wine Office-court, Fleet-street. Office hours, daily
.between 11 and 3 (Saturdays, 11 and 1), Secretary, Jarnes
BiJlington, who will receive all letters for Mrs. Weldon.
MRS. PARKER’S NEW ART OF HEALING.
(Scientific, Psychological, and Restorative.)
06, WARWICK STREET, BELGRAVE ROAD, S.W.
N.B,—References to eminent medical gentlemen.
Lectures to Ladies on Wednesdays, 'at 3 o’clock: subject,
* Health." Her Tonic for the Skin gives youth and bloom,
instead of age and, wrinkles. When conditions are favourable
Mrs. Parker is clairvoyant.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
Opa of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS.
In thirty years Spiritualism has spread through all the
most civilised countries on the globe, until it now has tens of
thousands of adherents, and about thirty periodicals. It has
also outlived the same popular abuse which at the outset
opposed railways, gas, and Galileo’s discovery of the rotation
of the earth.
The Dialectical Society, under the presidency of Sir John
Lubbock, appointed a large committee, which for two years
investigated the phenomena occurring in the presence of non¬
professional mediums, and finally reported that the facts were
true, that the raps and other noises governed by intelligence
were real, and that solid objects sometimes moved in the pre¬
sence of mediums without being touched.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R S., editor of the Quarterly Journal
of Science, deviser of the radiometer, and discoverer of the
new metal thallium, investigated the phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism in his own house, and reported them to be true. Mr.
A. R. Wallace, Mr. Cromwell Varley, Prof. Zollner, and a great
number of intelligent professional men have done the same.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
stranger to the family present.
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurers, and men
of science that the alleged phenomena are jugglery are
proved to be untrue by the fact that manifestations are
readily obtained by private families, with no stranger
present, and without deception by any member of the family.
At the present time there are only about half-a-dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great
Britain, consequently, if these were all tricksters (which they
are not>, they are so few in number as to be unable to bear
out the imposture theory as the foundation of the great move¬
ment of modern Spiritualism. Readers should protect them¬
selves against any impostors who may tell them that the
phenomena are not real, by trying simple home experiments
which cost nothing, thus showing how egregiously those are
duped who trust in worthless authorities.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without
knowing it are to be found in nearly every household, and
about one new circle in three, formed according to the follow¬
ing instructions, obtains the phenomena:—
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no in¬
terruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light,
but sufficient to allow everything to be seen clearly, round an
uncovered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in
contact with its top surface. Whether the hands touch each
other or not is of little importance. Any table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no influence on the manifestations,
but an acrid feeling against them is weakening.
4. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often
a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
indications will probably be table tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,
to avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk
to the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table
that three tilts or raps mean “ Yes,” one means “No," and
■two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is
understood. If three raps be given in answer, then say, “If
I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal
every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such
as trance or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of
messages, as judged by their religious and philosophical
merits, usually, accompany such manifestations rather than
the more objective phenomena. After the manifestations are
obtaiued, the observers should not go to the other extreme
and give way to an excess of credulity, but should believe no
more about them or the contents of messages than they are
forced to do by undeniable proof.
8. Should no results be obtained at the first two Seances
because no medium chances to be present, try again with
other sitters. A medium is usually an impulsive individual,
very sensitive to'mesmeric influences.
T HE SPIRITUALIST.
March 7, 1879.
Just Published,
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence, post free, Crown 8vo, richly-gilt
THE LAZY LAYS
AND PROSE IMAGININGS i
BY WILLIAM H. HAUUISON.
An Elegant and Amusing Gift-Book of Poetical and Prose
Writings, Grave and Gay.
The gilt device on the cover designed' by Florence .Claxton and the
Author.
' Contents.
Part 1.—Miscellaneous Poems and Prose Writings.
1. The Lay of the Lazy Author.—2. The Song of the Newspaper
Editor.—3. The Song of the Pawnbroker.—4. The Castle 5. The
Lay of the Fat Man.—6. The Poetry of Science.—7. How Hadji
A1 Shacabac was Photographed. (A letter from Hadji A1 Shacabac,
a gentleman who visited London on business connected with a
Turkish Loan, to Ali Mustapha Ben Buckram, Chief of the Col¬
lege of Howling Dervishes at Constantinople.)—8. The Lay of the
Broad-Brimmed Hat.—9. St. Bride's Bay.—10. The Lay of the
Market Gardener.—11. “ Fast Falls the Eventide.”—12. Our Raven.
—13. Materialistic Religion.—13. The Lay of .the Photographer.—
14. How to Double the Utility of the Printing Press.—15. The
Song of the Mother in-Law.—16. Wirbel-bewegung.—17. “Poor Old
Joe!”—18. The Human Hive.—19. The Lay of the Mace-Bearers.—
20. A Love Song.—21. A Vision.—22. “Under the Limes.”—23. The
Angel of Silence.
Part 2.—The Wobblejaw Ballads, by Anthony Wobblejaws.'
24. The Public Analyst.—26. General Grant’s Reception at Folke¬
stone.—26. The Rifle Corps.—27. Tony’s Lament.—28. The July
Bug.—29. The Converted Carman.
Opinions of the Press.
From The Morning Post.
The Morning Post, which strongly recommends the book in a
review nearly a column long, says“ Comic literature which
honestly deserves the epithet seems to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past; consequently any writer who, like Mr. Harrison,
exhibits a genuine vein of humour, deserves the praise of all who
are not too stupid to enj oy an innocent laugh. Not that his muse
restricts herself only to such lighter utterances; on the contrary,
some of his poems touch on the deepest and most sacred feelings
of our common humanity... . The unfortunate Hadji’s narrative
of his adventures amongst the magicians of Whitechapel is quite
one of the funniest things that has been published for years. ...
The book contains quite enough to ensure it a welcome from
which its tasteful appearance will not detract.” The Morning
Post says of The Wooblejaw Ballads:—“No one can help laughing
at them,” and it says that the rhymes are pitched in “ something
like the same key” as The Bon Oaultter Ballads or 2'he Biglow
Papers, “with an appreciably successful result.”
From The Court Journal.
“All are of marked ability.... Occasionally we find verse of
great beauty, showing that the author possesses the pure poetic
gift.’’
From The Graphic.
“ Those who can appreciate genuine, unforced humour should
not fail to read The Lazy<Lays and Prose Imaginings. Written,
printed, published and reviewed by William H. Harrison (38, Great
Russell-street). Both the verses and the short essays are really
funny, and in some of the latter there is a vein of genial satire
which adds piquancy to the fun. The Lay of the Newspaper Editor
is capital, if rather severe, and so is The Lay of the Macebearers;
but one of the most laughable bits is the Turk's account of how he
went to be photographed.”
From Public Opinion.
“ A volume of remarkably.good verse.... Some of the metrical
legends remind us of the wild chants that used to be sung at the
meetings of the Cannibal Club, some ten or fifteen years ago. Mr.
Harrison, however, knows where to plant his fun, and an accu¬
rate scientific mind like his can make jokes with success.... To
all who wish to read a pleasant volume magnificently got up as a
gift-book, we commend The Lazy Lays."
From The Bookseller.
“An odd hut most entertaining assortment of quaint and
humorous fancies, some in verse and others in prose, and all
written with a fluent and not ungraceful pen. The vein of
humour which permeates them is genuine, rich, and original, and
not at all ill-natured.”
From Nature.
“ Scientific men and matters are in one or two cases alluded to,
and the imprint bears that the work is published ‘a.d. 1877
(popular chronology); a.m. 5877 (Torquemada) ; a.m. 50,800,077
(Huxley).’ We believe that our readers may derive a little
amusement from a perusal of the volume.”
From The British Journal of Photography.
“ The Lazy Lays include many admirable pieces, some of which
are in verse and others in prose, some scientific, others social, but
all of them excellent... . The Lazy Lays will make excellent and
amusing reading for an occasional spare half-hour.... They con¬
tain nothing unrefined or in bad taste.”
From The Dublin Dr.iversity Magazine.
How Hadji A1 Shacabac, an amiable Turk, was photographed,
is well done.. .. Bound in a cover of somewhat powerful design.”
From The Photographic News.
‘ Mr. W. H. Harrison, a gentleman whose name is familiar in
connection with photographic and other scientific literature, has
considerable facility of versification, and deals, in pleasant and
humorous mood, with many scientific follies which are better
laughed down than gravely disputed.”
From The Scotsman.
“In Mr. W. H. Harrison’s Lazy Lays and Prose imaginings
there is a good deal of broad humour and satiric power, with a due
foundation of solid sense.”
From The Bradford Daily Chronicle.
“ Good poetical diction is displayed. Mr. Harrison has produced
a most welcome book...* How Hadji al Shacabac was Photo¬
graphed,’ will be sure to make every reader roar with laughter.”
From The Dundee Daily Advertiser.
“ With such a free and easy author it is naturally to be expected
that his subjects should bear some trace of this peculiar idiosyn¬
crasy, and indeed they are as free and easy as himself.... The
poems are all characterised by smoothness and rhythmical swing.
... The work is very elaborately bound in cloth and gilt.... A
gorgeous design upon the cover.... If oui readers wish to en¬
courage laziness they have a most deserving object in a very
clever and versatile member of the order.”
From The Liverpool Daily Courier.
“ In his handsomely bound and griffin-guarded Lazy Lays, Mr.
William H. Harrison provides a gift-book elegant in its appear¬
ance and entertaining in its contents.... The author is imbued
with the true spirit of humour, and amuses all while offending
none.”
From The Western Daily Press (Bristol).
“ A volume from the versatile pen of Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
well-known contributor to the London and provincial press, and
editor of The Spiritualist.. .. Many of the humorous poems re¬
mind us of the Ingoldsby Legends. The Lay of the Photographer
The Lay of the Macebearers, and some of The Wobblejaw Ballads
would not have been unworthy of Barham himself. Some of the
shorter poems are exquisite, and there pervade the whole a reli¬
gious sentiment and poetic feeling which will make them accept¬
able to most readers.
From the daily Northern Whig (Belfast).
“ The finest thing in the book is ‘How Hadji Al Shacabac was
Photographed,’ It is an admirable addition to our not too ex¬
tensive comic literature. The story is one of which extracts
would not give an adequate idea; it is intensely humorous..'..
Those who wish to obtain a handsome gift-book of an amusing
nature, will find what they want in The Lazy Lays.”
. From' The Bristol Daily Post.
“A curious colleption of verses,;and prose essays of unequa
merit’.. .*. The sdfiouS and sentimental1 verses belong to the type
of Mrs. Hemans’s or L. E. L.’s productions.’,’ i |
From The Kensington News.,
It is “ after the manner of Barham, Hood, Mark Twain, or any
of those merry-souls who do quite a? much good in their day and
' generation as 'the authors of the most serious works. The Lays
are always original, sometimes serious, generally comic, but
never vulgar.”
From The Malvern News.
“It is in itself a work of itself—original, and a cast of its
author’s mind. It is a work of great power and beauty; full of
lively imaginings and bold outspoken thoughts, abounding in
tenderness and pathos; sparkling with wit and humour; and one
that may bo read many times over... The get-up of the book is
very handsome.”
From The Folkestone News.
“ A number of clever sketches and poems, among the latter
being a series of papers entitled The Wobblejaw Ballads, which
appeared in the columns of this paper a short time ago,
and which created such a furore at the time.” [N.B. An
irate member of the Town Council officially called the attention of
the Mayor and Corporation of Folkestone to the burlesques in the
“ Wobblejaw Ballads,'" but the members assembled laughed at the
matter, and proceeded to the next business. The Mayor said that he
did not mind them.'] ... “ It contains some very choice poems
and prose essays, is bound in cloth richly gfit, and has an original
design of no ordinary merit on the cover.”
Obtainable, price 7s. 6d., post free, at the Branch Office of th0
Spiritualist Newspaper, London, W.C,
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA,
Ofl
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, M.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of
Chemistry at Edinburgh University,
Dedicated by the Author by Permission to His Grace
the Duke of Argyll.
The second and slightly revised and abridged edition, for
its quality and size the cheapest large work ever published
in this country in connection with Spiritualism.
Just published, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or five copies
post free for 21s. Copies may also be had hound in half
calf, with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I;—First Effects Produced by Mesmerism—Sensations
—Process for Causing Mesmeric Sleep — The Sleep or Mesmeric
State—It Occurs Spontaneously in Sleep-Walkers—Phenomena of
the Sleep—Divided Consciousness—Senses Affected—Insensibility to
Pain.
CHAPTER IIj—Control Exercised by the Operator over the Sub¬
ject in Various Ways—Striking Expression of Feelings in the Look
and Gesture—Effect of Music—Truthfulness of the Sleeper—Various
Degrees of Susceptibility—Sleep Caused by Silent Will; and at a
Distance—Attraction Towards the Operator—Effect in the Waking
State of Commands Given in the Sleep.
CHAPTER III : — Sympathy — Community of Sensations; of
Emotions — Danger of Rash Experiments—Public Exhibitions of
Doubtful Advantage — Sympathy with the Bystanders—Thought-
Reading—Sources of Error—Medical Intuition—Sympathetic Warn¬
ings—Sympathies and Antipathies—Existence of a Peculiar Force
orlnfluence.
CHAPTER IV:—Direct Clairvoyance or Lucid Vision, without
the Eyes—Vision of Near Cbjects: through Opaque Bodies: at a
Distance—Sympathy and Clairvoyance in Regard to Absent Persons
—Retrovision—Intro vision.
CHAPTER V:—Lucid Prevision—Duration of Sleep, etc., Pre¬
dicted—Prediction of Changes in the Health or State of the Seer—
Prediction of Accidents, and of Events Affecting Others — Sponta¬
neous Clairvoyance—Striking Case of it—Spontaneous Retrovision
and Prevision—Peculiarities of Speech and of Consciousness in Mes¬
merised Persons—Transference of Senses and of Pain.
CHAPTER VI:—Mesmerism, Electro-Biology, Electro-Psychology
and Hypnotism, essentially the same—Phenomena of Suggestions in
the Conscious or Waking State—Dr. Darling’s Method and its Effects
—Mr. Lewis’s Method and its Results—The Impressible State—
Control Exercised by the Operator—Gazing—Mr. Braid’s Hypnotism
—The Author’s Experience—Importance of Perseverance—The Sub¬
ject must be Studied.
CHAPTER VII;—Trance, Natural and Accidental; Mesmeric-
Trance Produced at Will by the Subjects—Col. Townsend—Fakeers—
Extasis—Extaticsnot all Imposters—Luminous Emanations—Extasis
often Predicted—M. Cahagnet’s Extatics—Visions of the S liritual
World.
CHAPTER VIII: Phreno-Mesmerism—Progress of Pnrenoiogy—
Effects of Touching the Head in the Sleep—Variety in the Phenom¬
ena—Suggestion—Sympathy—There are Cases in -which these Act,
and others in which they do not Act—Phenomena Described—The
Lower Animals Susceptible of Mesmerism—Fascination Among
Animals — Instinct —Sympathy of Animals — Snail Telegraph
Founded on It.
CHAPTER IX:—Action of Magnets, Crystals, etc., on the Human
Frame—Researches of Reichenbach—His Odyle is identical with the
Mesmeric Fluid of Mesmer, or with the Influence which Causes the
Mesmeric Phenomena—Odylic or Mesmeric Light—Aurora Borealis
Artificially Produced—Mesmerised Water—Useful Applications Oi
Mesmerism—Phsysiologlcal, Therapeutical, etc.—Treatment of Insan
ity. Magic, Divination, Witcheratt, etc., explained by Mesmerism,
and Traced to Natural Causes—Apparitions — Second Sight is
Waking Clairvoyance—Predictions of Various Kinds.
CHAPTER X :—An Explanation of the Phenomena Attempted or
Suggested—A Force (Odyle) Universally Diffused, Certainly Exists,
and is Probably the Medium of Sympathy and Lucid Vision—Its
Characters—Difficulties of the Subject—Effects of Odyle—Somnam¬
bulism—Suggestion, Sympathy—Thought-Reading—Lucid Vision—
Odylic Emanations—Odyhc Traces followed up by Lucid Subjects—
Magic and Witchcratt—The Magic Crystal, and Mirror, etc., Induce
Walking Clairvoyance—Universal Sympathy—Lucid Perception of
the Future.
CHAPTER XI:—Interest Felt in Mesmerism by Men of Science
—Due Limits of Scientific Caution—Practical Hints—Conditions of
Success in Experiments—Cause of Failure—Mesmerism a Serious
Thing—Cautions to be Student,—Opposition to be Expected.
CHAPTER XII:—Phenomena Observed in the Conscious or
Waking State—Effects of Suggestion on Persons in an Impressible
State—Mr. Lewis's Experiments With and Without Suggestion—
Cases—Dr. Darling’s Experiments — Cases—Conscious or Waking
Clairvoyance, Produced by Passes, or by Concentration—Major
Buckley’s Method — Cases—The Magic Crystal Induces Waking
Lucidity, when Gazed at—Cases—Magic Mirror—Mesmerised Water
—Egyptian Magic.
CHAPTER XIII :—Production of the Mesmeric Sleep—Cases—
Eight out of Nine Persons Recently Tried by the Author Thrown
into Mesmeric Sleep—Sleep Produced without the Knowledge of the"
Subject—Suggestion in the Sleep—Phreno-Mesmerism in the Sleep
•—Sympathic Clairvoyance in the Sleep—Cases—Perception of Time
—Cases; Sir J. Franklin ; Major Buckley’s Case of Retrovision.
CHAPTER XIV:—Direct Clairvoyance—Cases—Travelling Clair¬
voyance—Cases—Singular Visions of Mr. D.—^Letters of Two Clergy¬
man, with Cases—Clairvoyance of Alexis—Other Cases.
CHAPTER XV:—Trance—Extasis — Cases—Spontaneous Mes¬
meric Phenomena—^Apparitions—Predictions.
CHAPTER XVI:—Curative Agency of Mesmerism—Concluding
Rempks, and Summary.
London: W.O. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Printed tor the Proprietor by Beveridgb & .Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and' St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. "W Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London E.C.
