A F(ECOF(D Of THE PROQREff Of THE fCIEjMCE >ND ETHICf OF £PIfITU/0LI£M.
No. 15.—Vol. I.
LONDON: TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1870.
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence.
MR. JOHN BRIGHT, M.P., ON SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. J. M. Peebles, the United States Consul at
Trebizond, who last winter visited England on his way-
home, and who was elected an Honorary Pellow of the
Anthropological Society, recently delivered a lecture
on his European travels, at Battle Creek, near Chi-
cagd. That lecture is printed in a newspaper called
The Present Age, published by Mr. D. M. Eox, 106,
Randolph-street, Chicago. The date of the paper con¬
taining the lecture is September 3rd, 1870, and in the
course of the lecture Mr. Peebles made the following
statement:—
“ While in England I dined with John Bright, when
transpired quite an earnest conversation on the subject
of Spiritualism. He said he had witnessed some of
D. D. Home’s manifestations. They were wonderful.
He could attribute them to no cause unless it be the one
alleged, that of intelligent disembodied spirits. ‘ But,’
he added, with due caution, ‘ I do not say that this is
so, but if it be true, it is the strongest tangible proof
we have of immortality.’ ”
MRS. H. B. STOWE ON SPIRITUALISM.
Mrs. Stowe has just published some articles in her
brother’s paper, the Church Union, in which she testi¬
fies to the truth of the phenomena of Spiritualism.
She says:—“We hold to the belief in the unbrolcen
unity possible between those who have passed to the
higher life and this. We hold to that vivid faith in
things unseen which was the strength of primitive
Christians. The first Christians believed what they
said they did—we do not. The unseen spiritual world,
its angels and archangels, its saints and martyrs, its
purity and its joys, were ever before them, and that is
why they were such a mighty force in the( world.
St. Augustine says that it was the vision of the saints
gone before that inspired them with courage and con¬
tempt of death—rand it is true.”
After speaking of Spiritual manifestations, she
says:—“ These remarkable phenomena which affect
belief upon this subject are not confined to paid
mediums and spiritual circles, so called. They some¬
times come of themselves- to persons neither believing
in them, looking for them, nor seeking them. Thus
coming, they cannot but powerfully and tenderly move
the soul.”
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA ON BOARD AN ATLANTIC
TELEGRAPH SHIP.
About the middle of last month, Mr. James Graves,
Superintendent of the Anglo-American Telegraph Com¬
pany’s office at Yalencia, informed Mr. C. E. Yarley,
the electrician, that some excitement had been caused
among the crew of the cable-repairing ship Robert
Lowe, by the alleged appearance of several spirits to
one of the men. The commander of the ship. Captain
James Blacklock, afterwards met Mr. Yarley, and, on
being questioned, confirmed the statement. Mr. Yarley
then informed us of the circumstances, and the result
was that the following document was drawn up and
signed, in order to fully authenticate the whole narra¬
tive :—
STATEMENT OP THE CAPTAIN AND OFFICERS.
The steamship Robert Lowe returned to the Thames
on Tuesday, Oct. 11th, from St. Pierre, Newfoundland,
where she had been repairing one of the French Atlantic
Telegraph Company’s Cables. An engineer on board,
Mr. W. H. Pearce, of 37, Augusta-street, East India-
road, Poplar, was. taken ill with the typhus fever, and,
bn the 4th of Oct. last, he died. One of his mates,
Mr. B. Brown, of 1, Ecjward-street, Hudson’s-road,
Canning Town, Plaistow, a strong, healthy man, a
stoker, not likely to be led astray by imagination,
attended him till the day before he died. On the after¬
noon before his death, at three o’clock, in broad daylight,
Brown- was attending the sick man, who wanted to get
■out of bed, but his companion prevented him. And
this -is what the witness says he saw:—
“ Lwas standing on one side of the bunk, and while
trying to prevent Pearce from rising, I saw on the other
side of the bunk, the wife, two children, and the mother
of the dying man, all of whom 1 knew very well,
and they are all still living. They appeared to be very
sorrowful, but iii all other respects were the same as
ordinary human beings. I could not see through them ;
they were not at all transparent. They had on their
ordinary clothes, and, perhaps, looked rather paler than
usual. The mother said to me, in a clearly audible
voice, cHe will be buried on Thursday, at twelve
o’clock, in about fourteen hundred fathoms of water.’
They all then vanished instantaneously, and I saw them
no more. Pearce did not see them, as he was delirious,
and had been so for two days previously. I ran out of
the berth in a state of great excitement, and did not
enter it again while he was alive. He died on Tuesday,
not Thursday, and was buried at four o’clock, and not
twelve. It was a sudden surprise to me to see the
apparitions. I expected nothing of the kind, and when
I first saw them I was perfectly cool and collected.
I had never before seen anything of the kind in my
life, and my health is, and always has been, good.
About five minutes afterwards I told Captain Blacklock
I would stop with the sick man no longer, but would
not then tell him why, thinking that, if I did, nobody
else would take my place. About an hour later, I told
Captain Blacklock and Mr. Dunbar, the chief engineer,
whose address is, ‘Old Mill, near Port William, Wig¬
townshire, Scotland.’ ”
The other sailors on board say that they saw that
Mr. Brown was greatly agitated from some cause, and
they gradually drew this narrative out of him. , Captain
Blacklock says:—
“ Brown came down into the cabin, looking very
pale and frightened, and declared in a strong and
decided way that he would not attend the sick man
any more on any conditions—not for a thousand
pounds. I told him that he ought to attend a sick and
dying comrade, especially as a storm was raging, and
he needed kind and considerate help, such as any of us
might need one day. T pressed him all the more, as
I wanted a strong steady man to attend the delirious
invalid; besides, it being bad weather, the other men
were fagged and overworked. Brown would not go
back, and he left the cabin, as I think, crying, so I
sent him out a glass of brandy. Shortly after that I
heard he was very ill, and that his mates had some
trouble in soothing and calming him.’’
We, the undersigned officials on board the Robert
Lowe, declare the above statements to be true, so far
as each of the circumstances came under bur personal
notice,' but we none of us commit ourselves to any
opinion as to the cause of the phenomenon. We give
this statement simply because we have been requested
to do so, rumours of the occurrence having gone
abroad and caused enquiries to be made.
(Signed) J. Blacxlock, Commander.
David Brown, Stoker.
Andrew Dunbar, First Engineer.
Reuben Richardson, Stoker.
Robert Knox, Trimmer.
H enry Hammond, Stoker.
John Woodcock, Stoker.
Henry Pugh, Cook, (27, Queen-
street, Horsleydown, Bermondsey.)
j October 20i7i, 1670.
The witness Brown bears the best of characters, is
| thoroughly trusted by the captain and crew, and he
| had a strong friendship for the deceased. He told us
! that something strange had happened in London,
causing Mrs. Pearce to anticipate the news of her
' husband’s death, so that it was not a very great sur-
! prise to her to hear of the misfortune when the Robert
! Lowe reached England. On inquiring into this matter,
! Mrs. Pearce wrote to us that on the 28th September,
; rather less than a week before her husband’s death, she
! remained for a night at the house of her mother-in-
law in Camden-town. In the middle of the night she
J was awakened by three loud knocks, which she thought
were given upon the street door, but on looking out
I there was nobody there. A deep dread then came over
her,—she had an impression she should hear some bad
news,—and afterwards she had fearful dreams, to the
effect that she was a widow, and that all her children
; were dressed in black.
The appearance of the spirits of persons still living
in the body is not at all an uncommon circumstance,
and is one of the most perplexing facts connected with
Witness,
W. H. Harrison.
Spiritualism. Sometimes the spirits of the persons seen
are really present, but in such cases the individuals
themselves are usually asleep or insensible, so far as
their bodies are concerned. Sometimes spirits, by
will-power and mesmeric influence, act upon the
organs of sight and hearing of the medium; in such
cases what the spirit thinks the medium sees, and the
teachings or news thus given are usually symbolical.
Sometimes visions are caused or favoured by disease,
without the intervention of spirits. Perhaps the second
of these three influences was the cause of the sight
seen on board the Robert Lowe, and probably attempts
were made both on board ship and in London to com¬
municate.
AN ANSWER TO THE ARGUMENTS OF HUME,
LECKY, AND OTHERS, AGAINST MIRACLES.*
BY ALFRED R. WALLACE, F.Z.S., F.R.G.S.,
President of the Entomological Society, Author of “ The Malay Archipelago,"
and “ Contributions to the Theory of Natural Selection."
It is now generally admitted, that those opinions and
beliefs in which men have been educated generation
after generation, and which have thus come to form
part of their mental nature, are especially liable to be
erroneous, because they keep alive and perpetuate the
ideas and prejudices of a bygone and less enlightened
age. It is therefore in the interest of truth, that every
doctrine or belief, however well established or sacred
they may appear to be, should at certain intervals be
challenged to arm themselves with such facts and
reasonings as they possess, to meet their opponents in
the open field of controversy, and do battle for their
right to live. Nor can any exemption be claimed in
favour of those beliefs which are the product of modem
civilisation, and which have, for several generations,
been held unquestioned by the great mass of the edu¬
cated community; for the prejudice in their favour will
be proportionately great, and, as was the ease with the
doctrines of Aristotle and the dogmas of the schoolmen,
they may live on by mere weight of authority and force
of habit, long after they have been shown to be opposed
alike to fact and to reason. There have been times when
popular beliefs were defended by the terrors of the law,
and when the, sceptic could only attack them at the
peril of his life. Now we all admit that truth can take
care of itself, and that only error needs protection. But
there is another mode of defence which equally implies
a claim to certain and absolute truth, and which is
therefore equally unworthy and unphilosophical—that
of ridicule, misrepresentation, or a contemptuous
refusal to discuss the question at all. This method is
used among us even now, for there is one belief, or
rather disbelief, whose advocates claim more than papal
infallibility, by refusing to examine the evidence brought
against it, - and by alleging general arguments which
have been in use for two centuries to prove that it
cannot be erroneous. The belief to which I allude is,
that all alleged miracles are false; that what is com¬
monly understood by the term supernatural does not
exist, or if it does is incapable of proof by any amount
of human testimony; that all the phenomena we can
have cognisance of depend on ascertainable physical
laws, and that no other intelligent beings than man
and the inferior animals can or do act upon our material
world. These views have been now held almost un¬
questioned for many generations; they are inculcated
as an essential part of a liberal education; they are
popular, and are held to be one of the indications of
our intellectual advancement; and they have become so
much a part of our mental nature that all facts and
arguments brought against them are either ignored as
unworthy of serious consideration, or listened to with
undisguised contempt. Now this, frame of mind is
certainly not one favourable to the discovery of truth,
and strikingly resembles that by which, in former ages,
systems of error have been fostered and maintained.
The time has, therefore, come when it must be called
upon to justify itself.
This is the more necessary because the doctrine,
whether true or false, actually rests upon a most unsafe
and rotten foundation. I propose to show you that the
best arguments hitherto relied upon to prove it are, one
* This paper, hy Mr. Wallace, was read last night at the first of a series
of weekly soiries at the Beethoven Rooms, Harley-street, Cavendish-square.
Mr. Benjamin Coleman presided, and there was a large and intelligent
audience. The particulars of the discussion on the paper will be pu dished
in the first number of Tie Spiritual News.
114
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 15, 1870.
and all, fallacious, and prove nothing of the kind. But
a theory or belief may be supported by very bad argu¬
ments, and yet be true; while it may be supported by
some good arguments, and yet be false. But there
never was a true theory which had no good arguments
to support it. If therefore all the arguments hitherto
used against miracles in general can be shown to be
bad, it will behove sceptics to discover good ones ; and
if they cannot do so, the evidence in favour of miracles
must be fairly met and judged on its own merits, not
ruled out of court as it is now.
It will be perceived, therefore, that my present pur¬
pose is to clear the ground for the discussion of the
great question of the so-called supernatural. I shall
not attempt to bring arguments either for or against the
main proposition, but shall confine myself to an examina¬
tion of the allegations and the reasonings which have been
supposed to settle the whole question on general grounds.
One of the most remarkable works of the great
Scotch philosopher, David Hume, is An Inquiry con¬
cerning Human Understanding, and the tenth chapter
of this work is On Miracles, in which occur the argu¬
ments which are so often quoted to show that no evi¬
dence can prove a miracle. Hume himself had a very
high opinion of this part of his work, for he says at the
beginning of the chapter, “ I flatter myself that I have
discovered an argument which, if just, will with the
wise and learned be an everlasting check to all kinds of
superstitious delusion, and consequently will be useful
as long as the world endures; for so long, I presume,
will the accounts of miracles and prodigies be found in
all history, sacred and profane.”
OEELSriTIOK OE THE TEEM “ MIRACLE.”
After a few general observations on the nature of
evidence and the value of human testimony in different
cases, he proceeds to define what he means by a miracle.
And here at the very beginning of the subject we find
that we have to take objection to Hume’s definition of a
miracle, which exhibits unfounded assumptions and
false premises. He gives two definitions in different
parts of his essay. The first is, “A miracle is a viola¬
tion of the laws of nature.” The second is, “ A miracle
is a transgression of a law of nature by a particular
volition of the Deity, or by the interposition of some
invisible agent.” How both these definitions are bad
or imperfect. The first assumes that we know all the
laws of nature, that the particular effect could not be
produced by some unknown law of nature overcoming
the law we do know ; it assumes, also, that if an in¬
visible intelligent being held an apple suspended in the
air, that act would violate the law of gravity. The
second is not precise; it should be “ some invisible
intelligent agent,” otherwise the action of galvanism or
electricity, when these agents were first discovered, and
before they were ascertained to form part of the order
of nature, would answer accurately to this definition of
a miracle. The words “ violation. ” and “ transgression ”
are both improperly used, and really beg the question
by the definition. How does Hume know that any
particular miracle is a violation of a law of nature ?
He 'assumes this without a shadow of proof, and on
these words, as we shall see, rests his whole argument.
Before proceeding further, it is necessary for us to
consider what is the true definition of a miracle, or
what is most commonly meant by that word. A miracle,
as distinguished from a new and unheard of natural
phenomenon, supposes an intelligent superhuman agent
either visible or invisible; it is not necessary that what
is done should be beyond the power of man to do. The
simplest action, if performed independently of human
or visible agency, such as a teacup lifted in the air at
request, as by an invisible hand and without assignable
cause, would be universally admitted to be a miracle,
as much so as the lifting of a house into the air, the
instantaneous healing of a wound, or the instantaneous
production of an elaborate drawing. My definition of
a miracle therefore is as follows:—“ Any act or event
implying the existence and agency of superhuman in¬
telligences,” considering the human soul or spirit, if
manifested out of the body, as one of these superhuman
intelligencies. This definition is more complete than
that of Hume, and defines more accurately the essence
of that which is commonly termed a miracle.
THE EVIDENCE OF THE EEALITT OF MIRACLES.
We now have to consider Hume’s arguments. The
first is as follows :—
“ A miracle is a violation of the la/ms of natwre; and as a
firm and unalterable experience lias established these laws,
the proof against a miracle, from the very nature of the fact,
is as entire as any argument from experience can possibly be
imagined. Why is it more than probable that all men must die;
that lead cannot of itself remain suspended in the air; that
fire consumes wood, and is extinguished by water; unless it
be, that these events are found agreeable to the laws of nature,
and there is required a violation of these lams, or, in other
words a miracle, to prevent them? Nothing is esteemed a
miracle, if it ever happened in the common course of nature.
It is no miracle that a man seemingly in good health should
die on a sudden ; because such a kind of death, though more
unusual than any other, has yet been frequently observed to
happen. But it is a miracle that a dead man should come to
life ; because that has never been observed in any age or coun¬
try. There must, therefore, be an uniform experience against
every miraculous event, otherwise the event would not merit
that appellation. And as an wniform experience amounts to a
proof, there is here a direct and full proof, from the nature of
the fact, against the existence of any miracle ; nor can such a
proof be destroyed, or the miracle rendered credible, but by
an opposite proof, which is superior.”
This argument is radically fallacious, because if it
were sound, no perfectly new fact could ever be proved,
since the first and each succeeding witness would be
assumed to have universal experience against him.
Such a simple fact as the existence of flying fish could
never be proved, if Hume’s argument is a good one;
for the first man who saw and described one, would
have the universal experience against him that fish do
not fly, or make any approach to flying, and his evi¬
dence being rejected, the same argument would apply to
the second, and to every subsequent witness, and thus
no man at the present day who has not seen a flying
fish ought to believe that such things exist.
Again, painless operations in a state produced by
mere passes of the hand, were, twenty-five years ago,
maintained to be contrary to the laws of nature, con¬
trary to all human experience, and therefore incredible.
On Hume’s principles they were miracles, and no
amount of testimony could ever prove them to be real.
But miracles do not stand alone, single facts opposed to
uniform experience. Reputed miracles abound in all
periods of history; every one has a host of others
leading up to it; and every one has strictly analogous
facts testified to at the present day. The uniform op¬
posing experience, therefore, on which Hume lays so
much stress does not exist. What, for instance, can
be a more striking miracle than the levitation or
raising of the human body into the air without visible
cause, yet this fact has been testified to during a long
series of centuries.
A few well known examples are those of St. Francis
d’Assisi, who was often seen by many persons to rise
in the air, and the fact is testified to by his secretary,
who could only reach his feet. Saint Theresa, a nun in
a convent in Spain, was often raised into the air in the
sight of all the sisterhood. Lord Orrery , and Mr.
Yalentine Greatorex both informed Dr. Henry More
and Mr. Glanvil that at Lord Conway’s house at
Bagley in Ireland, a gentleman’s butler, in their pre¬
sence and in broad daylight, rose into the air and floated
about the room above their heads. This is related by
Glanvil in his Sadducismus Triumphatus. A similar
fact is narrated by eyewitnesses of Ignatius rde Lqyola,
and Mr. Madden, in his life of Savonarola, after narrat¬
ing a similar circumstance of that saint, remarks, that
similar phenomena are related in numerous instances,
and that the evidence upon which some of the narra¬
tives rest, is as reliable as any human testimony can be.
Butler, in his Lives of the Saints, says that many such
facts are related by persons of undoubted veracity, who
testify that they themselves were eyewitnesses of them.
So we all know that at least fifty persons of high
character may be found in London, who will testify
that they have seen the sapae thing happen to Mr.
Home. I do not adduce this testimony as proving that
the circumstances related really took place; I merely
bring it forward now to show how utterly unfounded is
Hume’s argument, which rests upon universal testi¬
mony on the one side, and no testimony on the other.
THE CONTRADICTOBT NATURE OF HUME’S ESSAY.
I now have to show that in Hume’s efforts to prove
his point, he contradicts himself in a manner so gross
and complete as is perhaps not to be found in the
works of any other eminent author. The first passage
I will quote is as follows :—
“ For, first, there is not to be found, in all history, any mira¬
cle attested by a sufficient number of men, of such unques¬
tioned good sense, education, and lea/rning, as to secure us
against all delusion in themselves ; of such undoubted integrity,
as to place" them beyond all suspicion of any design to deceive
others ; of such credit and reputation in the eyes of mankind,
as to have a great deal to lose in case of their being detected
in any falsehood ; and at -the same time attesting facts per¬
formed in such a public manner, and in so celebrated apart of
the world, as to render the detection unavoidable : all which
circumstances are requisite to give us a full assurance in the
testimony of men.”
A few pages further on, we find this passage :—
“ There surely never was a greater number of miracles as¬
cribed to one person, than those which were lately said to
have been wrought in France upon the tomb of Abb6 Paris,
the famous Jansenist, with whose sanctity the people were so
long deluded. The curing of the sick, giving hearing to the
deaf, and sight to the blind, were everywhere talked of as the
usual effects of that holy sepulchre. But what is more extra¬
ordinary, many of the miracles were immediately proved upon
the spot, before judges of unquestioned integrity, attested by
witnesses of credit and distinction, in a learned age, and on
the most eminent theatre that is now in the world. Nor is this
all. A relation of them was published and dispersed every¬
where'; nor were the Jesuits, though a learned body, supported
by the civil magistrate, and determined enemies to those
opinions, in whose favour the miracles were said to have been
wrought, ever able distinctly to refute or detect them. Where
shall we find such a number of circumstances, agreeing to the
corroboration of one fact ? And what have we to1 oppose to
such a cloud of witnesses, but the absolute impossibility, or
miraculous nature of the events which they relate ? , And this,
surely, in the eyes of all reasonable people, will alone be re¬
garded as a sufficient refutation.”
In tbe second passage be affirms tbe existence of
every single fact and quality wbicb in tbe first passage
he declared never existed, and be entirely changes bis
ground of argument by appealing to tbe inherent impos¬
sibility of tbe fact, and not at all to tbe insufficiency of tbe
evidence. He even makes this contradiction still more
remarkable by a note which be has himself given to
this passage, a portion of which is as follows :—
“ This book was writ by Mons. Montgeron, councillor or
judge of the parliament of Paris, a man of figure and charac¬
ter, who was also a martyr to the cause, and is now said to be
somewhere in a dungeon on account of his book. . . .
“Many of the miracles of Abbe Paris were proved immedi¬
ately by witnesses before the officiality or bishop’s court at
Paris, under the eye of Cardinal Noailles ; whose character for
integrity and capacity was never contested, even by his ene¬
mies.
“ His successor in the archbishopric was an enemy to the Jan-
senists, and for that reason promoted to the see by the court.
Yet twenty-two rectors or cures of Paris, with infinite earnest¬
ness, press him to examine those miracles, which they assert to
be known to the whole world, and indisputably certain; but
he wisely forbore. .. .
“ All who have been in France about that time have heard of
the reputation of Mons. Herault, the lieutenant of Police,
whose vigilance, penetration, activity, and extensive intelli¬
gence, have been much talked of. This magistrate who, by
the nature of his office, is almost absolute, was invested with
full powers, on purpose to suppress or discredit these miracles;
and he frequently seized immediately, and examined the wit¬
nesses and subjects to them: but never could reach anything
satisfacto'ry against them.
“ In the case of Mademoiselle Thibaut he sent the famous De
Sylva to examine her ; whose evidence is very curious. The
physician declares, that it was impossible that she could have
been so ill as was proved by witnesses ; because it was impos¬
sible she could in so short a time have recovered so perfectly
as he found her. He reasoned like a man of sense, from
natural causes; but the opposite party told him, that the whole
was a miracle, and that his evidence was the very best proof
of it. . ..
“ No less a man than the Due de Chatillon, a duke and peel-
of France, of the highest rank and family, gives evidence of a
miraculous cure performed upon a servant of his, who had
lived several years in his house with a visible and palpable in¬
firmity.
“ I shall conclude with observing, that no clergy are more
celebrated for strictness of life and manners than the regular
clergy of France, particularly the rectors or cur4s of Paris, who
bear testimony to these impostures.
“ The learning, genius, and probity of the gentlemen, and
the austerity of the nuns of Port-Royal, have been much cele¬
brated all over Europe. Yet they all give evidence for a
miracle, wrought on the niece of the famous Pascal, whose
sanctity of life, as well as extraordinary capacity, is well
known. The famous Racine gives an account of this miracle
in his famous history of Port-Royal, and fortifies it with all
the proofs, which a multitude of nuns, priests, physicians, and
men of the world, all of them of undoubted credit, could be¬
stow upon it. Several men of letters, particularly the Bishop
of Tournay, thought this miracle so certain, as to employ it in
the refutation of Atheists and Freethinkers. The queen-regent
of France, who was extremely prejudiced against the Port-
Royal, sent her own physician to examine the miracle, who
returned an absolute convert. In short the supernatural cure
was so incontestible, that it saved, for a time, that famous
monastery from the ruin with which it was threatened by the
Jesuits. Had it been a cheat, it had certainly been detected
by such sagacious and poweiful antagonists, and must have
hastened the ruin of the contrivers."
It seems almost incredible that this can have been
written by the great sceptic David Hume, and written
in the same work in which he has already affirmed that
in all history no such evidence is to be found. In order
to show how very remarkable the evidence is to which
he alludes, I think it well to give you one of the cases
in greater detail, as recorded in the original work of
Montgeron, and quoted in Mr. William Howitt’s History
of the Supernatural:—
“ Mademoiselle Goirin was afflicted, amongst other ailments,
with a cancer in the left breast, for twelve years. The breast
was destroyed by it, and came away in a mass ; the effluvia
from the cancer was horrible, and the whole blood of the
system was pronounced infected by it. Every physician pro¬
nounced the case utterly incurable, yet, by a visit to the tomb,
she was perfectly cured; and, what was more astonishing, the
breast and nipple were wholly restored, with the skin pure
and fresh, and free from any trace of scar. This case was
known to the highest people in the realm. When the miracle-
was denied, Mademoiselle Coirin went to Paris, was examined
by the royal physician, and made a formal deposition of her
cure before a public notary. Mademoiselle Coirin was daughter
of an officer of the royal household, and had two brothers in
attendance on the person of the king. The testimonies of the
doctors are of the most decisive kind. M. Gaulard, physician
to the king, deposed officially, that, | to restore a nipple abso¬
lutely destroyed, and separated from the breast, was an actual
creation, because a nipple is not merely a continuity of the
vessels of the breast, but a particular body, which is of a distinct
and peculiar organisation.’ M. Souchay, surgeon to the Prince
of Conti, not only pronownced the cancer incurable, but, having
examined the breast after the cure, went of himself to the public
notary, and made a formal deposition ‘ that the cure was per¬
fect : that each breast had its nipple in its natural form and
condition, with the colours and attributes proper to those
parts.’ Such also are the testimonies of Seguier, the surgeon
of the hospital at Nanterre ; of M. Deshieres, surgeon to the
Duchess of Berry ; of M. Hequet, one of the most celebrated
surgeons in France; and numbers of others, as well as of
public officers and parties of the greatest reputation, univer¬
sally known; all of whose depositions are officially and fully
given by Montgeron.”
This is only one out of a great number of cases-
equally marvellous, and equally well attested, and we
therefore cannot be surprised at Hume’s being obliged
to give up the argument of the insufficiency of the
evidence for miracles and of the uniform experience
against them, the wonder being that he ever put forth
an argument which he was himself able to refute so
completely.
We now have another argument which Hume brings-
Nov. 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
115
forward, but which is, if possible, still weaker than the
last. He says :—
“ I may add, as a fourth reason, which diminishes the au¬
thority of prodigies, that there is no testimony for any, even
those which have not been expressly detected, that is not op¬
posed by any infinite number of witnesses ; so that not only
the miracle destroys the credit of testimony, but the testimony
destroys itself. To make this the better understood, let us
consider that, in matters of religion, whatever is different is
contrary; and that it is impossible the religions of ancient
Eome, of Turkey, and Siam, and of China, should, all of them,
be established on any solid foundation. Every miracle, therefore,
pretended to have been wrought in any of these religions (and
all of them abound in miracles), as its direct scope is to estab¬
lish the particular system to which it is attributed ; so has it
the same force, though more indirectly, to overthrow every
other system. In destroying a rival system, it likewise des¬
troys the credit of those miracles on which that system was
established; so that all the prodigies of different religions are
to be regarded as contrary facts ; and the evidences of these
prodigies, whether weak or strong, as opposite to each other.
According to this method of reasoning, when we believe any
miracle of Mahomet or his successors, we have for our war¬
rant-the testimony of a few barbarous Arabians. And, on the
other hand, we are to regard the authority of Titus Livius,
Plutarch, Tacitus, and, in short, of all the authors and wit¬
nesses, G-recian, Chinese, and Roman Catholic, who have
related any miracle in their particular religion ; I say, we are
to regard their testimony in the same light as if they had
mentioned that Mahometan miracle, and had in express terms
contradicted it, with the same certainty as they have for the
miracle they relate.”
How ibis argument, if argument it can be called,
rests upon the extraordinary assumption that a miracle,
if real, can only come from God, and must therefore
support only a true religion. It assumes also that
religions cannot be true unless given by God. Mr.
Hume assumes, therefore, to know that nothing which
we term a miracle can possibly be performed by any of
the probably infinite number of intelligent beings who
may exist in the universe between ourselves and the
Deity. He confounds the evidence for the fact with the
theories to account for the fact, and most illogically and
unphilosophically argues, that if the theories lead to con¬
tradictions, the facts themselves do not exist.
I think, therefore, that I have now shown that—1.
Hume gives a false definition of miracles, which begs
the question of their possibility. 2. He states the fal¬
lacy that miracles are isolated facts, to which the entire
course of human testimony is opposed. 3. He delibe¬
rately and absolutely contradicts himself' as to the
amount and quality of the testimony in favour of
miracles. 4. He propounds the palpable fallacy as to
miracles connected with opposing religions destroying
each other.
MODERX OBJECTIONS TO MIRACLES.
We will now proceed to some of the more modern
arguments against miracles. One of the most popular
modern objections consists of making a supposition and
drawing an inference, which looks like a dilemma, but
which is really none at all.
This argument has been put in several forms. One
is, “ If a man tells me he came from York by the tele¬
graph-wire, I do not believe him. If fifty men tell me
they came from York by telegraph wires, I do not
believe them. If any number of men tell me the same,
I do not believe them. Therefore, Mr. Home did not
float in the air, notwithstanding any amount of testi¬
mony you may bring to prove it.”
Another is,' “ If a man tells me that he saw the lion
on Northumberland-house descend into Trafalgar-square
and drink water from the fountains, I should not believe
him. If fifty men, or any number of men, informed
me of the same thing, I should still not believe them.”
Hence it is inferred that there are certain things so
absurd and so incredible, that no amount of testimony
could possibly make a sane man believe them.
How, these illustrations look like arguments, and at
first sight it is not easy to see the proper way to answer
them; but the fact is that they are utter fallacies, be¬
cause their whole force depends upon an assumed pro¬
position which has never been proved, and which I
challenge anyone to prove. The proposition is, that
a large number of independent, honest, sane, and sen¬
sible witnesses, can testify to a plain matter of fact
which never happened at all.
How, no evidence has ever been adduced to show
that this ever has happened or ever could happen. But
the assumption is rendered still more monstrous when
we consider the circumstances attending such cases as
those of the cures at the tomb of the Abbe Paris, and
the cases of modern scientific men being converted to
a belief in the reality of the phenomena of modern
Spiritualism; for we must assume that, being fully
warned that the alleged facts are impossible and are
therefore delusions, and having the source of the sup¬
posed delusion pointed out, and all the prejudices of the
age and the whole tone of educated thought being
against the reality of such facts, yet numbers of edu¬
cated men, including physicians and men of science, are
■convinced of the reality of the facts after the most
searching investigation. Yet the assumption that such
an amount and quality of independent converging
■evidence can be all false, must be proved to be a fact if
the argument is to have the slightest value, otherwise
it is merely begging the question. It must be remem¬
bered that we have to consider, not absurd beliefs or false |
inferences, but plain matters of fact; and it cannot be
proved, and never has been proved, that any large
amount of cumulative evidence of disinterested and
sensible men, was ever obtained for an absolute and
entire delusion. To put the matter in a simple form,
the asserted fact is either possible, or not possible. If
possible, such evidence as we have been considering
would prove it; if not possible, such evidence could not
exist. The argument is, therefore, an absolute fallacy,
since its fundamental assumption cannot be proved. If
it is intended merely to enunciate the proposition, that
the more strange and unusual a thing is the more and
the better evidence we require for it, that we all admit;
but I maintain that human testimony increases in value
in such an enormous ratio with each additional inde¬
pendent and honest witness, that no fact ought to be
rejected when attested by such a body of evidence as
exists for many of the events termed miraculous or
supernatural, and which occur now daily among us.
The burden of proof lies on those who maintain that
such evidence can possibly be fallacious; let them point
out one case in which such cumulative evidence existed,
and which yet proved to be false; let them give not
supposition, but proof.
THE TIN CERTAINTY OE THE ASSERTED PHENOMENA OF
MODERN SPITITHALISM.
Another modern argument is used more especially
against the reality of the so-called Spiritual phenomena.
It is said, “ These phenomena are so uncertain, you
have no control over them, they follow no law; prove
to us that they follow definite laws like all other groups
of natural phenomena, and we will believe them.”
This argument appears to have weight with some per¬
sons, and yet it is really an absurdity. The essence
of the alleged phenomena (whether they be true or not,
is of no importance) is, that they seem to be the result
of the action of independent intelligences, and are
therefore deemed to be Spiritual or superhuman. If
they had been found to follow strict law and not inde¬
pendent will, no one would have ever supposed them to
be Spiritual. The argument, therefore, is merely the
statement of a foregone conclusion, namely, “ As long
as your facts go to prove the existence of distinct intel¬
ligences, we will not believe them; demonstrate that
they'follow fixed law, and not intelligence, and then
we will believe them.” This argument appears to me
to be childish, and yet it is used by some persons who
claim to be philosophical.
THE NECESSITY OE SCIENTIEIC TESTIMONY.
Another objection which I have heard stated in public,
and received with applause is, that it requires immense
scientific knowledge to decide on the reality of any un¬
common or incredible facts, and that till scientific men
investigate and prove them they are not worthy of
credit. How I venture to say that a greater fallacy
than this was never put forth. The subject is a very
important one, and the error is a very common one, but
the fact is the exact opposite of what is stated ; for I
assert that, whenever the scientific men of any age have
denied the facts of investigators on a priori grounds,
they have always been wrong.
It is not necessary to do more than refer to the world-
known names of Galileo, Harvey, and Jenner; the great
discoveries they made were, as we know, violently
opposed by all their scientific contemporaries, to whom
they appeared absurd and incredible; but we have
equally striking examples much nearer to our own day.
When Benjamin Franklin brought the subject of light¬
ning conductors before the B,oyal Society, he was
laughed at as a dreamer, and his paper was not admitted
to the Philosophical Transactions. When Young put
forth his wonderful proofs of the undulatory theory of
light, he was equally hooted at as absurd by the popular
scientific writers of the day. The Edinburgh Review
called upon the public to put Thomas Gray into a
straight jacket for maintaining the practicability of
railroads. Sir Humphry Davy laughed at the idea of
London ever being lighted with gas. When Stephenson
proposed to use locomotives on the Liverpool and Man¬
chester Bailway, learned men gave evidence that it was
impossible that they could go even twelve miles an
hour. Another great scientific authority declared it to
be equally impossible for ocean steamers ever to cross
the Atlantic. The French Academy of Sciences ridi¬
culed the great astronomer Arago, when he wanted even
to discuss the subject of the electric telegraph. Medical
men ridiculed the stethoscope when it was first dis¬
covered. Painless operations during the mesmeric coma
were pronounced impossible, and therefore impostures.
But one of the most striking, because one of the most
recent cases of this opposition to, or rather disbelief in
facts opposed to the current belief of the day, among
men who are generally charged with going too far in
the other direction, is that of the doctrine of the “Anti¬
quity of Man.” Bone, an experienced French geologist,
in 1823, discovered a human skeleton eighty feet deep
in the loess or hardened mud of the Bhine. It was
sent to the great anatomist Cuvier, who so utterly dis¬
credited the fact that he threw aside this invaluable
fossil as worthless, and it was lost. Sir C. Lyell, from
personal investigation on the spot, now believes that
the statements of the original observer were quite accu¬
rate. So early as 1715 flint weapons were found with
the skeleton of an elephant in an excavation in Gray’s-
inn-lane, in the presence of Mr. Conyers, who placed
them in the British Museum, where they remained
utterly unnoticed till quite recently. In 1800, Mr.
Frere found flint weapons along with the remains of
extinct animals at Hoxne, in Suffolk. From 1841 to
1846, the celebrated French geologist, Boucher de
Perthes, discovered great quantities of flint weapons in
the drift gravels of the Horth of France, but for many
years he could convince none of his fellow scientific
men that they were works of art, or worthy of the
slightest attention. At length, however, in 1853, he
began to make converts. In 1859-60, some of our
own most eminent geologists visited the spot, and
fully affirmed the truth of his observations and deduc¬
tions.
Another branch of the subject was, if possible, still
worse treated. In 1825, Mr. McEnery, of Torquay,
discovered worked flints along with the remains of
extinct amimals in the celebrated Kent’s Hole Cavern,
but his account of his discoveries was simply laughed at.
In 1840, one of our first geologists, Mr. Godwin Austen,
brought this matter before the Geological Society, and
Mr. Yivian, of Torquay, sent in a paper fully confirming
Mr. McEnery’s discoveries, but it was thought too im¬
probable to be published. Fourteen years later, the
Torquay Hatural History Society made further observa¬
tions, entirely confirming the previous ones, and sent
an account of them to the Geological Society of London,
but the paper was rejected as too improbable for publi¬
cation. How, however, for five years past, the cave
has been systematically explored under the superinten¬
dence of a Committee of the British Association, and all
the previous reports for forty years have been confirmed,
and have been shown to be even less wonderful than
the reality. It may be said that i# this was proper
scientific caution.” Perhaps it was; but at all events
it proves this important fact, that in this, as in every
other case, the discoverers have been right, those who
rejected their observations have been wrong.
How, are the modern discoverers of some phenomena
usually termed supernatural and incredible, less worthy
of attention than these already quoted ? Let us take,
first, the reality of what is called clairvoyance. The
men who have observed this phenomenon, who have
carefully tested it through long years or through their
whole lives, will rank in scientific knowledge, and in
intellectual ability, as quite equal to any observers in
any other branch of discovery. We have no less than
seven eminent medical men, Drs. Elliotson, Gregory,
Ashburner, Lee, Herbert Mayo, Esdaile, and Haddock,
besides persons of such high ability as Miss Martineau,
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, Mr. Charles Bray, and Baron
Bichenbach. With the history of previous discoverers
before us, is it more likely that these eleven educated
persons, knowing all the arguments against the facts,
and investigating them carefully, should be all wrong,
and those who say a priori that the thing is impossible
should be all right, or the contrary? If we are to
learn anything by history and experience, then we may
safely prognosticate that, in this case as in so many
others, the disbelievers in other men’s observations will
be found to be in the wrong.
REVIEW OE MR. LECKY’s ASSERTIONS ABOUT MIRACLES.
We now come to the modern philosophical objectors,
most eminent among whom is Mr. Lecky, author of the
History of Rationalism and the History of Morals. In
the latter work he has devoted some space to this ques¬
tion, and his clear and well expressed views may be
taken to represent the general opinions and feelings of
the educated portion of modern society.
He says:—
“ The attitude of ordinary educated people towards miracles
is not that of doubt, of hesitation, of discontent with the
existing evidence, but rather of absolute, derisive, and even
unexamining incredulity.”
He then goes on to explain why this is so :—
"In certain stages of society, and under the action of cer¬
tain influences, an accretion of miracles is invariably formed,
around every prominent person or institution. We can
analyse the general causes that have impelled men towards the
miraculous; we can show that these causes have never failed
to produce the effect; and we can trace the gradual alteration
of mental conditions invariably accompanying the decline of
the belief.
“ When men are destitute of the critical spirit, when the
notion of uniform lam is yet unborn, and when their imagina¬
tions are still incapable of rising to abstract ideas, histories
of miracles are always formed and always believed; and they
continue to flourish and to multiply until these conditions are
altered. Miracles cease when men cease to believe and ex¬
pect them. ...”
Again:—
“ We do not say they are impossible, or even that they are
not authenticated by as much evidence as many facts we
belie've. We only say that, in certain states of society, illu¬
sions of this kind inevitably appear....”
" Sometimes we can discover the precise natural fact which
the superstition has misread, but more frequently we can give
only a general explanation, enabling us to assign these legends
to their place, as the normal expression of a certain stage of
knowledge or intellectual power; and this explanation is their
refutation.”
116
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 15, 1870.
Now, in these statements and arguments of Mr.
Lecky, -we find some fallacies hardly less striking than
those of Hume. His assertion that in certain stages of
society an accretion of miracles is invariably formed
round every prominent person or institution, appears to
me to he absolutely contradicted by certain -well-
known historical facts.
The Church of Home has ever been the great theatre
of miracles, whether ancient or modern. The most
prominent person in the Church of Home is the Pope;
the most prominent institution is, the Papacy. We
should expect, therefore, if Mr. Lecky’s statement be
correct, that the Popes would be pre-eminently miracle-
workers. Put the fact is, that with the exception of
one or two very early ones, no miracles whatever are
recorded of the great majority of the Popes. On the
contrary, it has been generally among the very humblest
members of the Romish Church, whether clergy or
laity, that the power of working miracles has ap¬
peared, and which has led to their being canonized
as saints.
Again, to take another instance, the most prominent
person connected with the reformed churches is Luther.
He himself believed in miracles. The whole world in
his day believed in miracles, and miracles, though gene¬
rally of a demoniac character, continued rife in all Pro¬
testant churches for many generations after his death ;
yet there has been no accretion, of miracles round this
remarkable man.
■ Hearer to our own day we have Irving, at the head
of a church of miracle-workers; and Joe Smith, the
founder of the miracle-working Mormons; yet there
is not the slightest sign of any tendency to impute any
miracles to either of these men, other than those which
the latter individual claimed for himself before his
sect was established. These very striking facts seem
to me to prove that there must be some basis of truth
in nearly every alleged miracle, and that the theory of
any growth or accretion round prominent individuals
is utterly without Evidence to support it. It is one of
those convenient general statements which sound very
plausible and very philosophical, but for which no proof
whatever is offered.
THE DECLINE OE BELIEF IN MIRACLES.
Another of Mr. Lecky’s statements is, that there is
an alteration of mental conditions invariably accom¬
panying the decline of belief. But this “invariable
accompaniment'’ certainly cannot be proved, because
the decline of the belief has only occurred once in the
history of the world; and, what is still more remark¬
able, while the mental conditions which accompanied
that one decline have continued in force or have even
increased in energy and are much more widely diffused,
belief has now for twenty years been growing up again.
In the highest states of ancient civilisation, both among
the Greeks and Romans, the belief existed in full force,
and has been testified to by the highest and most intel¬
lectual men of every age. The decline which in the
present century has certainly taken place, cannot,
therefore, be imputed to any general law, since it is but
an exceptional instance.
Again, Mr. Lecky says that the belief in the super¬
natural only exists “ when men are destitute of the
critical spirit, and when the notion of uniform law is
yet unborn.” Mr. Lecky in this matter contradicts
himself almost as much as Hume did. One of the
greatest advocates for the belief in the supernatural was
Glanvil, and this is what Mr. Lecky says of Glanvil.
He says that Glanvil “ has been surpassed in genius
by few of his successors.”
“The predominating characteristic of Glanvil’s mind was
an intense scepticism. He has even been termed by a modem
critic the first English writer who has thrown scepticism into
a definite form ; and if we regard this expression as simply
implying a profound distrust of human faculties, the judgment
can hardly be denied. And certainly it would be difficult to
find a work displaying less of credulity and superstition than
the treatise on ‘ The Vanity of Dogmatising,’ afterwards pub¬
lished as Scepsis Scientifica, in which Glanvil expounded his
philosophical views The Sadducismus Triumphatus is
probably the ablest book ever published in defence of the
reality of witchcraft. Dr. Henry Moore, the illustrious Boyle,
and the scarcely less eminent Cudworth, warmly supported.
Glanvil; and no writer comparable to these in ability or in¬
fluence appeared on the other side ; yet the scepticism steadily
increased.”
Again Mr. Lecky thus speaks of Glanvil:—
“ It was between the writings of Bacon and Locke that that
latitudinarian school was formed which was irradiated by the
genius of Taylor, Glanvil, and Hales, and which became the
very centre and seedplot of religious liberty.”
These are the men and these the mental conditions
which are favourable to superstition and delusion !
The critical spirit and the notion of uniform law are
certainly powerful enough in the present day, yet in
every country in the civilised world there are now hun¬
dreds and thousands of intelligent men who believe, on
the testimony of their own senses, in phenomena which
Mr. Lecky and others would term miraculous, and
therefore incredible. Instead of being, as Mr. Lecky
says, an indication of “ certain states of society “ the
normal expression of a certain stage of knowledge or in¬
tellectual power”—this belief has existed in all states of
society, and has accompanied every stage of intellectual
power. Socrates, Plutarch, and St. Augustine alike, give
personal testimony to supernatural facts; this testimony
never ceased through the middle ages; the early re¬
formers, Luther and Calvin, throng the ranks of wit¬
nesses ; all the philosophers, and all the judges of
England down to Sir Matthew Hale, admitted that the
evidence for such facts was irrefutable. Many cases
have been rigidly investigated by the police authorities
of various countries, and, as we have already seen, the
miracles at the tomb of the Abhe Paris, which occurred
in the most sceptical period of Erench history, in the
age of Voltaire and the encyclopaedists, were proved by
such an array of evidence, and were so open to investi¬
gation, that one of the noblemen of that court—con¬
vinced of their reality after the closest scrutiny—
suffered the martyrdom of imprisonment in the Bastile
for insisting upon making them public. And in our
own day we have, at the lowest estimate, many millions
of believers in modern Spiritualism in all classes of
society; so that the belief which Mr. Lecky imputes to
a certain stage of intellectual culture only, appears on
the contrary to have all the attributes of universality.
IS THE BELIEF IN MIRACLES A SURVIVAL OF SAVAGE
THOUGHT ?
The philosophical argument has been put in another
form by Mr. E: B. Tylor, in . a lecture at the Royal
Institution, and in several passages in his other works.
He maintains that all Spiritualistic and other beliefs in
the supernatural are examples of the survival of savage
thought among civilised people; but he ignores the facts
which compel the beliefs. The thoughts of those edu¬
cated men who know, from the evidence of their own
senses, that things called supernatural are true and real
facts, are as totally distinct from those of savages, as
are their thoughts respecting the sun, or thunder, or
disease, or any other natural phenomenon. As well
might he maintain that the modern belief that the sun
is a fiery mass, is a survival of savage thought, because
some savages believe so too ; or that our belief that cer¬
tain diseases are contagious, is a similar survival of the
savage idea that a man can convey a disease to his
enemy. The question is a question of facts, not of
theories or thoughts, and I entirely deny the value or
relevance of any general arguments, theories, or analo¬
gies, when we have to decide on matters of fact.
Thousands of intelligent men now living know,
from personal observation, that some of the strange
phenomena which have been pronounced absurd and
impossible by scientific men, are nevertheless true. It
is no answer to these and no explanation of the facts,
to tell them that such beliefs only occur when men are
destitute of the critical spirit, and when the notion of
uniform law is yet unborn; that in certain states of
society illusions of this kind inevitably appear, that
they are only the normal expression of certain stages of
knowledge and of intellectual power, and that they
clearly prove the survival of savage modes of thought in
the midst of modern civilisation.
I believe that I have now shown—1. That Hume’s
arguments against miracles are full of unwarranted
assumptions, fallacies, and contradictions; 2. That the
modern argument of the telegraph-wire conveyance and
drinking stone-lion, are positively no arguments at all,
since they rest on false or assumed premises ; 3. That
the argument that dependence is to be placed upon
men of science and upon them only, is opposed to uni¬
versal experience and the whole history of science; 4.
That the philosophical argument so well put by Mr.
Lecky and Mr. Tylor, rests on false or unproved assump¬
tions, and is therefore valueless.
In’ conclusion, I must again emphatically declare that
the question I have been discussing is—in no way,
whether miracles are true or false, or whether modern
Spiritualism rests upon a basis of fact or of delusion,—
but solely, whether the arguments that have hitherto
been supposed conclusive against them have any weight
or value. If I have shown, as I flatter myself I have
done, that the arguments which have been supposed to
settle the general question so completely as to render it
quite unnecessary to go into particular cases, are all
utterly fallacious, then I shall have cleared the ground
for the production of evidence, and no honest man
desirous of arriving at truth will be able to evade an
enquiry into the nature and amount of that evidence, by
moving the previous question—that miracles are im¬
provable by any amount of human testimony. It is
time that the “ derisive and unexamining incredulity”
which has hitherto existed should give way to a less
dogmatic and more philosophical spirit, or history will
again have to record the melancholy spectacle of men, who
should have known better, assuming to limit the dis¬
covery of new powers and agencies in the universe, and
deciding, without investigation, whether other men’s
observations are true or false.
Lord Lindsax, who gave much evidence to the Dialec¬
tical Society about the truth of Spiritual phenomena, is going
to take a 12£ inch reflecting telescope, made by Mr. Browning,
to Cadiz, to take photographs of the total eclipse of the sun,
which will be visible there on the twenty-second of next
month.
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
On Thursday evening, November 3rd, Mr. Thomas Shorter
delivered a public lecture on “ Modern Spiritualism,” to the
St. John’s Association of Spiritualists, and the general public,
at the St. John’s Hall, Corporation-row, Clerkenwell. The
room was tolerably well filled, and Mr. J. J. Morse occupied
the chair. The admission was free.
Mr. Shorter said that in his last lecture he had pointed
out that many of the spiritual powers exerted in the days of
old are with us now, for such powers were not confined to
Palestine, nor to a period 2,000 years ago. St. Paul spoke of
the gift of prophecy, the gift of tongues, and of the discern¬
ing of spirits : these gifts have never been removed from
man; by our own unfaithfulness, unbelief, and coldness, we
have cut ourselves off more than before from these things.
The ancient manifestations did not cease in the early days of
the Christian era, but during the past few centuries we have
cut ourselves off from the blessings, and now instead of the
Church converting the world, the world is converting the
Churches, because the Church cannot now manifest the power
which ought to follow those who believe. Spiritual inter-
coui'se is governed by certain laws, so that if it be not a science
at present, it is becoming one: thus there is a great difference in
the reception and 'observation of the manifestations at the
present time. After reviewing the progress of the movement
in England and America, Mr. Shorter brought his lecture to
a close.
Mr. Jaques said that as an enquirer he had attended most
of the recent Thursday evening seances of the St. John’s
Association ; he had become deeply interested in the subject!
but one great impediment stood in his path. All the spirits
seem to do away with the atonement of Christ; they ignore
completely that the blood of Christ cleanses from all sin ;
otherwise he was satisfied that there was much truth in Spiri¬
tualism.
Mr. Shorter replied that the spirit world is not of one
class or creed; for if our relatives are the same men and
women after death, they must carry with them their religions
and opinions; and this being so, they give their individual
ideas to those with whom they communicate. Wesleyan,
Swedenborgian, and Roman Catholic spirits, will all advance
their own views.
Mr. Jaques wanted to know whether the doctrine of
“ eternal progression,” taught by the spirits, was the old pur¬
gatory doctrine.
Mr. Shorter said that Spiritualism has no stereotyped
doctrine like any of those in the churches, but certain pheno¬
mena are presented, respecting which every man must draw
his own conclusions. Earthly “masses” and payments to
priests do no good, but spirits have the opportunity of im¬
proving in the next life, and have higher spirits near, always
ready to help them.
Mr.- Avery, of Little Cross-street, Islington, said that his
father died in 1840, and twelve years ago returned to speak
to him through a medium. His father said that when he first
entered the spirit world he was very much disappointed, for
he found himself the same as before, and that his destiny was
not fixed. He found that the work he had left undone on
earth; he had the privilege of doing there.
Mr. Tunbridge asked what was the nature of social rela¬
tionship in the next world ?
Mr. Shorter said that he did not know ; but in the gene¬
rality of cases he thought that those who associated with each
other were drawn together by ties of affection.
Mr. Davies asked whether it were injurious to mediums to
sit too often ?
Mr. Shorter replied that it would be so if the medium
followed this or any other pursuit to excess ; all such actions
should be governed by experience and common sense.
Mr. Jaques said that he had twice been to the St. John’s
seances, and the spirits had so completely answered doubts
which were strongly in his mind, but not spoken, that he some¬
times thought that trance-manifestations1 might be caused by
his own mind acting upon that of the medium.
Mr. Shorter said that the fact was one of the greatest
proofs, of some spiritual power at the root of the manifesta¬
tions. At circles, spirits often answer questions bpfore they
are fully formed in the mind ; and he remembered one sitting
where, at the request of an enquirer, the spirits read off from
the brain of the questioner the whole history of his life. To
get this kind of manifestation, he thought, but did not
know for certain, that the spirit who had the power to
communicate should also be one who was in strong mental
and spiritual sympathy with the person whose thoughts were
read.
Mr. Pearce, secretary said that he had had private sittings
with Mr. Woolnough, one of the mediums connected with the
Association, and found that the spirits could not only read his
own thoughts, but those of his relatives who lived far enough
away from London—in Cornwall. He had ascertained the
reality of the thought-reading, by writing to his friends
directly the sittings were over.
The proceedings then closed. There was a collection at the
door for Mr. Davies, who is very seriously ill, and who, as a
medium, has done much good work in Clerkenwell.
Preliminary steps will be taken to-night to start a
Spiritualistic society at Kilburn.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., has recently purchased
The Quarterly Journal of Science.
Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., the electrician, is now busily
engaged in cable-laying operations in the Mediterranean.
Spiritualism in Norwood.—Last Thursday evening,
Mr. John Jones, of Enmore-park, South Norwood, gave the
first of his series of lectures in connection with Spiritualism,
at the Public Hall, Norwood Junction. Although, owing to
an oversight, but forty-eight hours notice was given by
placards of the lecture, the hallwas tolerably well-filled. The
lecture was much the same as the one given by Mr. Jones in
Clerkenwell, and reported in the first number of The Spiri¬
tualist. It was illustrated with dissolving views by Mr.
Doublett, and the views were painted by Mr. Bielfield.
The Harley-street Meetings.—The soirees in the Bee¬
thoven Rooms,Harley-street,Cavendish-square,began last night,
when a paper was read by Mr. A. R. Wallace, F.L.S., which
paper is published in full in this issue. The meetings will be
held on every Monday evening for some time to come, accord¬
ing to the liberality of subscribers. Mr. Benjamin Coleman,
who takes the responsibility, and does the work of getting up
these meetings, is one of the oldest supporters of the Spiritual
movement in England, and he went to America on purpose to
examine the phenomena there. It would be useful work on
his part, if he would read a paper at Harley-street on the
“Rise and Progress of [Spiritualism in England,” because
he has been practically connected with the movement from
the first, and has the faculty of speaking clearly and briefly-
Nov. 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST
117
I The Spiritual News.”
;HE First Number of The Spiritual News, pub¬
lished monthly, Price One Penny, will be issued
on the First of December next. The First Twelve
Numbers will be sent free by halfpenny post, to those
who remit the Publisher Eighteenpence in payment; or
three copies of each of the first twelve numbers free
by post for Three Shillings and Sixpence.
London : E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
CHA.KGES FOE ADVEETISEMENTS.
1. Advertisements of Public Companies, Half-a-guinoa per sixth of a
column, or every portion of sixth of a column.
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a column, or
portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.—Advertisements at the foregoing rates willbe displayed" so as
to occupy the full space paid for, but advertisements at the following rates
will be in closely set type:—
3. General Advertisements, Half-a-crown per first five lines or portion of
five lines, and Fourpence for every line in addition. -
4. Situations Wonted, or Apartments to Let, One Shilling per first four
lines, or portion of four lines; Threepence for every line in addition.
Ten words are allowed to the line, and six figures or initial letters count
as one word.
When five or more insertions of the same advertisement are paid for,
twenty per cent, reduction will be made in the above rates.
The power is reserved of refusing to insert any advertisement.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the Publisher, Mr.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's Church-yard, London, JE.C.
Ctf CtfTOspm&mtJL
All leters should be brief and to the point, as the amount of space avail¬
able for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by letter only, ad¬
dressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr'E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St.
Paul's Church-yard, London, E. C. Until the Spiritual movement in Eng¬
land, together with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
be spared for personal interviews on subjects' connected with the literary
work of The Spiritualist, but all letters will meet with careful considera¬
tion.
The Spiritualist is a periodical intended to give great f reedom of ex¬
pression to dll the different shades of opinion to be found among Spiri¬
tualists. There ivill therefore be very little uniformity in the ideas pro¬
mulgated in this journal, more especially in the correspondence columns.
Under these circumstances every reader will find occasionally something
in The Spiritualist which he or she does not like, but the right of reply
remains. This freedom of thought given to others, the Editor claims for
himself, and those who do not like the contents of leading articles can write
against them in the correspondence columns. This plan is thought better
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a pale weak mediocrity,
by inserting only those contributions which please everybody. The preceding
remarks are not intended to imply that those who have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can finer an outlet for them here, for none
but those letters which are considered worth publication will be inserted.
Notices of Public Meetings in connection with Spiritualism should be
sent to the office several days ill advance.
Co Sitbsaites.
The first eighteen numbers of The Spiritualist will be forwarded regu¬
larly by halfpenny post to subscribers, who remit five shillings and three¬
pence in payment to Mr. E. W. Allen, Publisher, Ave if aria-lane, St.
Paul's-churchyard, E. C. No notice will be taken of orders received unac¬
companied by a remittance.
When the day of issue chances to fall upon a Sunday, this journal will
be printed on the preceding Saturday, and published on the following
Monday.
The Spiritualist is registered for transmission abroad.
MIEACLES.
Last night at the Beethoven Booms, the extraordi¬
nary phenomenon was witnessed of one of the most
celebrated followers, or precursors, of Darwin engaged
in strengthening the arguments in favour of miracles.
The speaker holds unpopular views of the develop¬
ment of man calculated to draw upon his devoted head
the hottest fire from the theological world, whilst on
the other hand, his Spiritualism exposes him to the
shots of the world of science. Then, again, his views
about miracles are calculated to draw warm support
from the ranks of theologians, whilst his opinions about
natural development are calculated to gain the strong
approval of the scientific world. Should the feelings
of the large body of men on both sides find expression,
Mr. Wallace will find his central position rather warm;
his situation will be analogous to that of a cube of
copper made to rotate rapidly between the poles of a
powerful electro-magnet. The friction applied may be
invisible to mortal eye, yet is calculated to make the
central object uncomfortably hot.
Hume says, in effect, that miracles are temporary
subversions of natural law, whilst Mr. Wallace says
that miracles are in accordance with natural law; and
if the definition given by Mr. Wallace be granted, we
admit all his conclusions. But, as there is no absolute
authority as to what the word "miracle” does or does
not mean, probably Hume, in this one respect, is not
at fault, for if the frequenters of Exeter Hall meet¬
ings were questioned, perhaps ninety-nine per cent
would define a miracle as a subversion of natural laws
by the will of God. The whole question thus narrows
itself into one of the meaning of a word; and although
Mr. Wallace’s definition is a good one, it is not the
one generally received by the public, consequently, if
the idea became general that we Spiritualists believe
modern manifestations to be miracles, it will cause
inaccurate ideas respecting us to gain ground.
In all- advances in knowledge, it is necessary to coin
new words to convey clear and definite ideas. Pro¬
fessor Clerk Maxwell, F.E.S., and Mr. J. Johnstone
Stoney, F.B.S., pointed this fact out to section A of the
British Association at Liverpool a few weeks ago, for
the managers of the section inadvertently permitted a
very plausible paper to be read which was based en¬
tirely upon confusion of ideas as to the relative mean¬
ings of the words “ force ” and p energy,” which con¬
fusion invalidated the conclusions drawn from good
experiments. The wisest course is to abolish the words
“ miracle ” and “ supernatural ” as applied to Spiritual¬
istic phenomena, for we know of no evidence that they
are produced by other than natural laws. At all
events the manifestations are affected by the tempera¬
ture, the weather, the health of the medium, and the
state of mind of the members of the circle; and if these
things have a power over the phenomena, there can be
no arbitrary and complete subversion of ordinary laws
of nature. These remarks are not made with the desire
to lower the merits of the paper read last night by one
of the greatest naturalists and travellers of the day,
whose open defence of the' truths of Spiritualism de¬
serves all gratitude and respect. They are made simply
to protect Spiritualists from the supposition that the
phenomena which we know to be true, are based upon
the same evidence as that which satisfies Turks that the
moon really came down to earth and passed through
the sleeves of Mahomet’s coat, or which satisfies the
Jews that Joshua made the sun stand still. The most juve¬
nile astronomer knows that the earth moves round the
sun, and noti the sun round the earth; also that the
moon is many hundreds of miles in circumference, so
would inconvenience a man if it tried to run up his
sleeve.
Mahomet’s recorded miracles are probably traditions,
some of which may have had a foundation of truth in
real Spiritualistic manifestations, but there were no
shorthand reporters, no trained scientific observers, and
no newspapers in those days, to >chronicle them accu¬
rately at the time. In later years the priestcraft of the
“ true believers ” founded its wiles upon these tradi¬
tions, and the ignorant Turks have been made to suffer
and to " pay,” generation after generation, down to the
year 1870. A very striking example this of the trials
which men inflict upon themselves by the great sin of
neglecting to cultivate knowledge.
“LOTHAIR”
lx Mr. Disraeli’s new novel of Lothair the following remark
is made by Theodora, the heroine, to Lothair, shortly before
her death:—
“ ‘ To be candid with you, I do not myself believe in death.
There is a change, and doubtless a great one, painful it may
be, and certainly very perplexing, but I have a profound con¬
viction of my immortality, and I do not believe that I shall
rest in my grave in scecula sceculorum, only to be convinced of
it by the last trump.’
“ ‘ I hope you will not leave the world before I do,’ said
Lothair; ‘ but if that sorrow be reserved for me, promise that
to me, if only once, you will reappear.’
“11 doubt whether the departed have that power,’ said
Theodora, ‘ or else I think my heroes would have revisited
me. I lost a father more magnificent than Jove,- and two
brothers brighter than Apollo, and all of them passionately
loved me, and yet they have not come.’
Further on in the novel, and after the death of Theodora,
Lothair escapes temporarily from the clutches of some Roman
Catholic priests, and whilst seated amid the ruins of the
amphitheatre at Rome, one moonlight night, he sees an appa¬
rition. The following is the narrative :—
“ Was it a breeze in a breezeless night that was sighing
amid these ruins ? A pine tree moved its head on a broken
arch, and there was stir among the plants that hung on the
ancient walls. It was a breeze in a breezeless night that was
! sighing amid the ruins.
“ There was a tall crag of ancient building contiguous to the
block on which Lothair was seated, and which on his arrival
he had noted, although, long lost in reverie, he had not recently
turned his glance in that direction. He was roused from that
reverie by the indefinite sense of some change having occurred
which often disturbs and terminates one’s brooding thoughts.
And lo'oking round, he felt, he saw he was no longer alone.
The moonbeams fell upon a figure that was observing him
from the crag of a ruin that was near, and as the light clus¬
tered and gathered round the form, it became every moment
more definite and distinct.
'“Lothair would have sprung forward, but he could'only
extend his arms : he would have spoken, but his tongue was
paralysed. ' '
“ ‘ Lothair,’ said a deep, sweet voice that could never be
forgotten.
“ ‘ I am here,’ he at last replied.
“ ‘ Remember,’ and she threw upon him that glance, at once
serene and solemn, that had been her last, and was impressed
indelibly upon his heart of hearts.
“ Now, he could spring forward and throw himself at her
feet, but, alas ! as he reached her, the figure melted into the
moonlight, and she was gone—that divine Theodora, who, let ■
us hope, returned at last to those Blysian fields she so well
deserved.”
Further on in the novel, the following passage occurs
“ But the incident of his life that most engrossed his medi¬
tation, was the midnight apparition in the Coliseum. Making,
every allowance that a candid nature and an ingenious mind
could suggest for explicatory circumstances; the tension of
his nervous system, which was. then doubtless strained to
its last point ; the memory of her death-scene which
always harrowed and haunted him; and that dark collision
between his promise and his life which then, after so many
efforts, appeared by some supernatural Ordination to be about
inevitably to occur in that very Rome whose gigantic shades
surrounded him ; he still' could not resist the conviction that
he had seen the form of Theodora, and had listened to her
voice. Often the whole day when they were travelling, and
his companions watched him on his saddle in silent thought,
his mind in reality was fixed on. this single incident, and he
was cross-examining his memory as some adroit and ruthless
advocate deals with the witness in the box, and tries to de¬
monstrate his infidelity or his weakness.” ,
The .author makes the following conversation take place
upon the Mount of Olives :—•
“ ‘ And yet there are persons at the present day who doubt
—even deny—the spiritual nature of man,’ said Lothair; 11
do not, I could not—there are reasons why I could not.’
“ ‘ There are some things I know, and some things I believe,’
said the Syrian. ‘ I know that I have a soul, and 1 believe
that it is immortal.’
“ 1 It is science that by demonstrating the insignificance of
this globe in the vast scale of creation, has led to this infi¬
delity,’ said Lothair.
“ ‘ Science may prove the insignificance of this globe in the
scale of creation,’ said the stranger, ‘ but it cannot prove the
insignificance of man. What is the earth compared with the
sun 1—a molehill by a mountain ; yet the inhabitants of this
earth can discover the elements of which the great orb consists,
and will probably ere long, ascertain all the conditions of its
being. Nay, the human mind c'an penetrate far beyond the
sun. There is no relation, therefore, between the faculties of
man, and the scale in creation of the planet which he inhabits
n ♦ ♦ * * * *
“1 But there are people who tell you that there never was any
creation, therefore there never could have been a" Creator,’
said Lothair.
“ ‘ And which is now advanced with the confidence of
novelty,’ said the Syrian, ‘ though all of it has been urged, and
vainly urged, thousands of years ago. There must be design, or
all we see would be without sense, and I do not believe in the
unmeaning. As for the natural forces to which all creation
is now attributed, we know they are unconscious, while Con¬
sciousness is as inevitable a portion of our existence as the
eye or the hand. The conscious cannot be derived from the
unconscious. Man is divine.’
“ ‘ I wish I could assure myself of the personality of the
Creator,’ said Lothair. ‘ I cling to that, but they say it is
unphilosophical.’
“‘In what sense?’ asked the Syrian. ‘Is it more un¬
philosophical to believe in a personal God, omnipotent and
omniscient, than in natural forces unconscious and irresis¬
tible ? ’ ”
Maeeiage of Mes. Haedixge.—Mrs. Emma Hardinge
was married to Mr. Britten a few days before she started for
England, from New York, on the 3rd of this month. By the
time these lines are in print, the “ happy couple ’’ will have
probably arrived in London. Mrs. Hardinge enjoys so much
respect and popularity in her own name, that it would now
cause much confusion and inconvenience to change it, so in
Spiritual literature and on the platform she will still be known
as of old, as “ Emma Hardinge.’’
Spiettttalism ix Cleekexwell.—The St. John’s Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists, which has held weekly free public
seances at St. John’s Hall, Corporation-row, Clerkenwell, for
the last year and a half, wishes to purchase Spiritual books to
form a' library, and to have its public lectures delivered in a
better building. As the members of the Society are not rich
people, donations to aid either purpose would do much good.
The Association has from the first worked steadily and perse-
veringly ; a library would have a tendency to bring in more
members; and a better building for public lectures would
tend to increase the attendance. Nearly half the members of
the St. John’s Association are Swedenborgians. The secretary-
is Mr. Pearce, 2, Union-square, Islington, N.
De. Newt ox’s Poeteaits. — There is one phase of
Dr. Newton’s mediumship which, up to the present time, has
purposely not been mentioned in these columns,—namely, the
influence of the card portraits mesmerised by him upon in¬
valids and sensitives. The publication of statements that
even the handling of these portraits by the patient has re¬
moved the disease, raised a vast amount of prejudice among
the outside public; more prejudice, in fact, than if quack
pills had been sold in his name. But on reference to the ex¬
periments detailed in the September number of T/ie Spiri¬
tualist, as to the action of shells and minerals upon clairvoyant
sensitives,—and on reference to the experiments given in the
October number, about the action of rocks and fossils,—it is
easy to see that the handling of objects by a powerful medium
like Dr. Newton, must leave an influence behind, which in¬
fluence would be likely to produce muscular contractions, and
other phenomena, when the objects were handled by sensitives.
On reference to letters we have received, it is clear that these
portraits, when placed in contact with sensitives without their
knowledge, did exert striking effects on them. Nay, more,
there is plenty of authenticated evidence in 27w Medium that,
in some cases, they cured diseases. Mr. Burns, who received
the profits of the sale of these pictures, generously states that
he is not going to apply them to his private uses, but to give
them to some cause connected with the Spiritual movement; so
some deserving branch of the movement, may shortly expect
a large subscription.
118
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 15, 1870.
(Eomspnljettce.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers."]
A SEANCE AX MRS. GUPPY’S.
Sir,—I was present at a stance on the afternoon of yester¬
day, the 10th instant, at Mrs. Guppy’s own house, where the
spirits, after having requested us to wish for something, brought
a quantity of freshly-gathered violets, mignionette, geranium
leaves, and fern leaves, all wet with rain. There were other
manifestations, in which were given decisive tests of Miss
Neyland’s clairvoyant powers. I only mention that seance for
the purpose of stating that while we were chatting, after it
was over, I regretted that I had not fulfilled a previous resolu¬
tion, which was, that when the spirits should desire me to wish
for something, to ask them to bring me a stone, because, not
being a perishable article, I could always keep it, adding that
their bringing it to me would make it a precious stone.
I am now just returned from another stance at her house,
which has been the most extraordinary I have ever attended.
Mrs. Chevalier and a lady friend of hers were the only visitors
besides myself, and we went down to the sitting-room, with the
intention of having te,a, but Mrs. Guppy had just heard some
powerful raps, desiring that we should not have tea before the
seance, so we walked up again into the room where it was
to take place, and Mrs. Chevalier’s lady friend, who had
never before been at any stance, was requested by Mrs. Guppy
to make a strict examination of the room, which she did most
thoroughly, finding nothing but the simple furniture of table,
chairs, sofa, and piano. The door was then locked and the key
given into her possession. On the table were some sheets of
paper, a pencil, a tambourine, and a bell; and the circle con¬
sisted of Mr. and Mrs. Guppy, Miss Neyland, the two ladies I
have mentioned, and myself.
The gas was turned out, and when we had united in saying
the Lord’s Prayer, our invisible friends made an affirmative
signal at the conclusion, to imply that they alsqhad joined in
it. The alphabet was then asked for, and they spelled out the
message, “ We will bring you a precious stone,’’ which led to
my repeating yesterday’s conversation ; and after a short time
Mrs. Guppy said, “ They are trying to move my hand round,
so as to turn the palm upwards ; ” and then she added,
“ Here is something small, am I to give it to Miss Houghton ? ’’
“ Yes,” was the response. When I had received it, we wished
to light the candle, which they negatived, but allowed me to
tie the small article into the corner of my handkerchief. We
were then desired to hold hands all round. The tambourine
was then played rather noisily, being carried to different
parts of the room above our heads. Something cold was
now placed on my hand, which felt like a saucer, and
we gradually heard unmistakable sounds of crockery, the
table-being all the time in considerable motion. Mrs. Guppy
began to fear that they had brought her best tea service,
which had been laid out in the lower room in readiness for
the repast, but still our request for a light was refused, and
the clatter of cups and saucers became even stronger, and we
each felt something thrown, into our laps, but we continued to
obey the injunction not to unclasp hands, and at length re¬
ceived the welcome permission to have a light, when we
found that to each of us had been given a table napkin,
another being spread on the table, upon which were seven
cups and saucers {nob those she calls her Spiritual
ones, from having been the gift of a Spiritualist friend),
with tea-spoons, six small plates, a larger one for bread
and butter, still empty, a jug of milk, a glass sugar
basin, containing sugar, with sugar tongs, and some bis¬
cuits. After we had investigated all, and remarked that
the tea only was wanting, we were desired again to extinguish
the light, and almost immediately Miss Hey land made a
sudden exclamation that something had burned her cheek.
So we begged leave to light the candle, which was at once
granted, and lo ! there was the tea-pot, containing some very
strong tea, and the no-longer empty plate had in it a portion
of the cake of which we had partaken the evening before,
and a knife to cut it. Of course we had our tea, and enjoyed
it. I then examined my gift, which was a beautiful ruby,
rather larger than one for which I had given £3 about five
years ago, and also more exquisite in colour, so that my stone
is literally precious. When we were again in darkness, Miss
Neyland distinguished some of my spirit relatives, also Mrs.
Chevalier’s little girl, and others belonging to her. We were
tenderly touched by the loving fingers of those so dear to us ;
Mrs. Chevalier feeling her child’s hand very distinctly. A
Neapolitan tortoise-shell dagger (a gift from Mrs. Guppy) that
I wear in my hair was gently withdrawn, and taken to Mrs.
Chevalier, who was allowed to hold it for a time, but it was
then brought back, and replaced in my hair. Something was
heard to fall into the cup near Mrs. Chevalier that sounded
like money : it was a shilling, which she was desired to keep;
and Mrs. Guppy afterwards made a hole in it, to enable her to
hang it to her watch chain. One spirit, whose touch I well
know, felt on my finger for the ring, which is her emblem, and
gave me a little tap of reproach for not wearing it on this
occasion. “ No more ” was then spelled; but even after the
door had been widely opened, so that there was a good deal of
light, Mrs. Chevalier again felt the touch of her little girl’s hand.
I then went to the kitchen to ascertain whether the servant
had made the tea that had been brought to us, but she knew
nothing whatever about it, and thought I was reproving her
for not having made the tea in readiness for us. Miss Neyland
then looked into the caddy, where there had been nearly half
a pound of tea, but it had all vanished, so it was no wonder
our tea was so strong. The table napkins had been brought
from a linen press upstairs, and the tea-pot was also brought
from an upper room, being one they were not in the habit of
using. Georgina Houghton.
Nov. 11th, 1870.
20, Delamere-crescent, W.
New Spiritual Societies.—The new Spiritual Societies
at Brixton and Dalston are progressing favourably, and since
our last notice have been joined by several new members.
The Dalston Society has some good mediums among its mem¬
bers, but the Brixton Society is not as yet so well off. Both
societies have been much aided by the occasional attendance
of Mr. J. J. Morse, because the communications through him
keep up the interest of the ordinary meetings, while mediums
belonging to the Societies arejxn course of development. If
any readers. of these pages desire to start a society in their
own locality, we shall be glad to assist them in calling a pre¬
liminary meeting, by publishing a notice that the said local
meeting of Spiritualists is desired to be held. Prom what we
have heard, it is probable that there is room for local societies
in the neighbourhoods of Kilbum or the Edgware-road, New
Cross and Islington,
REMARKABLE SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
IN THREE PARTS—PART THREE.'
The following are the concluding extracts from the
Diary of Mr. C. F. Livermore, the New Tork banker,
in which he narrates his experiences in Spiritualism.
The appended extracts were first published by Mr. Ben¬
jamin Coleman, of 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood,
and we reprint them from Planchette, by Epes Sargent,
London, Triibner & Co., Paternoster Row. How com¬
pletely the following marvellous facts are authenticated
may be seen on reference to the first of these three
articles.
“ Friday Omening, Oct. 4,1861.—A bouquet of flowers was
placed upon the mantel in a vase with water. As soon as the
gas was turned down, a movement was heard ; and we were
requested to ‘ get a light.’ Upon doing so, we found the
flowers, with the vase and other articles, had been removed
from the mantel to the table, which stood in the centre of the
room. We again extinguished the light, when immediately
the heavy curtains of the window were drawn aside, and
raised and lowered repeatedly, admitting the light from the
street. Rustlings were heard after an interval of quiet, with
sounds as of persons walking ill stocking-feet. A peculiar
sound was produced by striking against the wall, as though
with a bag of keys or broken earthenware. This same bag of
keys, or whatever it might have been, also seemed to be
dropped from a height of several feet, and to fall heavily upon
the floor, while we were told to listen. Tremendous con¬
cussions were then made upon the floor, jarring the whole
house. The spirits of my wife and Dr. Franklin came to me
in form at the same time,—he slapping me heavily upon the
back, while she gently patted me, upon the head and shoulder.
The electrical rattle was now heard ; and the light increasing
in brilliancy disclosed to our view the full figure of a heavy
man. At my request, the figure ‘ walked ’ across the floor,
and appeared many times in different positions with entire
distinctness. My wife now appeared in great vividness and
beauty. Her figure floated gracefully through the room, her
white robes falling back as she glided through the air, brush¬
ing away pencils, cards, fyc., as she passed over and swept
across the table. This spirit-robe was shown us in a variety
of ways ; and the manifestation of texture was exquisitely
beautiful. We saw -her plainly withdraw her face behind it,
pushing the robe forward while it swung in the air. It was
brought over the table, the light being placed behind, so that
it became transparent and gossamer-like, as though a breath
of hair would dissolve it. This was frequently repeated, and
the robe drawn across my head, as palpably as though of
material substance. Whenever it approached closely, we dis¬
covered a peculiar scent of purity, like a very delicate perfume
of newly gathered grass or violets.
“ Oct. 20, 1861.—This manifestation was a powerful one,
showing the whole figure of, my wife, but not her face. She
stood before us enveloped in gossamer, her arm and hand
as perfect as in life, the arm bare from the shoulder, with
the exception of the gossamer, which was so transparent
that it was more beautiful for being thus dressed. I
asked to be touched ; when she advanced, laid her arm across
my forehead, and permitted me to kiss it. I found it as large
and as real in weight as a living arm. At first it felt cold,
then grew gradually warm. She held up the little finger, and
moved it characteristically; and while we were looking at
that, she let her hair fall loosely down her back. The mani¬
festation was concluded by her writing a card, resting it upon
my shoulder, caressing me upon the head and temple, and
kissing me for good-night.
“ Nov. 3, 1861.—This evening, according to promise, my
wife came in full form, placing her arms completely around
my neck ; but the most remarkable and novel manifestation
was the production of perfume from spirit-flowers. Some¬
thing, resembling a veil in its contact, was thrown over my
head ; and, while it was resting there, spirit-flowers were
placed at my nose, exhaling the most exquisite perfume I
have ever smelt. I asked what this was; and was told ‘ My
wreath of spirit-flowers.’ At my request the same was brought
to the medium, who experienced similar sensations. This was
repeated probably a dozen times, the perfume being as strong
as that of tuberose, but entirely different, and far more
exquisite.
1 Sunday Evening, Nov. 10, 1861.—Immediately upon
sitting down, there was communicated by raps, ‘ No failure.'
. . . My wife tapped upon my shoulder, informing me that
she should give all her aid to Dr. Franklin, who now became
visible, his face for the first time being seen. The light was
apparently held by another figure enveloped in dark covering,
from behind which the light approached, shining full upon the
face of Dr. Franklin, about whose identity there can be no longer
any doubt or mistake. I should have recognised it anywhere
as Dr. Franklin’s face, as I have learned to know it from the
original paintings I have seen of him ; but the strong points
of his character were manifest as no painting could exhibit
them. He was apparently dressed in a white cravat, and a
brown coat of the olden style ; his head'was very large, with
grey hair behind his ears ; his face was radiant with be¬
nignity, intelligence, and spirituality: while my wife’s was
an angel face of shining beauty, spiritualised in its expression
of serenity and happiness. His appearance was that of a man
full of years, of dignity, and of fatherly kindness, in whom
one could find counsel, affection, and wisdom. He came,
perhaps, a dozen times, and once or twice so near that his eyes
were seen full and clear. My wife appeared three times in
white robes and enveloped in flowers.
‘■‘■Monday Evening, Nov. 12, 1861.—Electric rattlings were
heard; and the light becoming very vivid discovered to us
Dr. Franklin seated, his whole figure and dress complete.
Indeed, so vivid was the light, and so real was the man sitting
there, that his shadow was thrown upon the wall as perfectly
as though a living human being were there, in his earth-form.
His position was one of ease and dignity, leaning back in the
chair, with one arm upon the table, occasionally bending for¬
ward in recognition of us, his grey locks swinging in corre¬
spondence with the movement. We closed our eyes by request.
Upon opening them, he was standing on the chair, his form
towering above us like a statue. Again he resumed his seat,
the act being accompanied by loud rustlings, which attend
each movement of the spirit. A message from my wife in¬
formed me that a card would be visibly handed to Dr.
Franklin. During all these appearances, there seemed to be
two other forms or spirits assisting, one of whom held the
light. One of these enveloped figures approached Dr.
Franklin, and, extending an arm, held a card directly, before
his face, so that the card was distinctly visible, and then
placed it on his knee, and afterwards handed it to me. The
power was great, remaining vigorous during the evening; and
Dr. Franklin, my silent companion, sat in his chair, my vis-a-
vis, for an hour and a quarter.
“ Wednesday Evening, Nov. 21, 1861.— .. . Something like
a handkerchief of transparent gossamer was brought; and we
were told to look at the hand which now appeared under the
gossamer, as perfect a female hand as was ever created. I
advanced my own hand, when the spirit-hand was placed in
it, grasping mine ; and we again grasped hands with all the
fervour of long-parted friends, my wife in the spirit-land and
myself here. The expression of love and tenderness thus
given cannot be described ; for it was a reality which lasted
through nearly half an hour. I examined carefully that
spirit-hand, squeezed it, felt the knuckles, joints, and nails,
and kissed it, while it was constantly visible to my sight. I
took each finger separately in my hand, and could discern no
difference between it and a human hand, except in tempera¬
ture ; the spirit-hand being cold at first, and growing warm.
I wore a glove, however, and could not, perhaps, judge accur¬
ately in all respects. At last ‘ good-night ’ was spelled out,
by the spirit-hand tapping upon mine, and then, for a parting
benediction, giving it a hearty shake. Nothing in all these
manifestations has been more real to me, or given me greater
pleasure, than thus receiving the kindly grasp of a hand
dearer to me than life, but which, according to the world’s
theory, has long since, with all its tenderness and life,
mouldered into the dust of the earth.
“ Friday Evening, Nov. 29, 1861.—My brother and I and
the medium present. Conditions unfavourable. Heavy rain¬
storm. Darkened the room, and immediately a spirit-light
rose from the floor. I put on my glove, and my brother did
the same. The light soon came in my hand, when I felt that
it contained a female hand. It was frequently placed in
mine, and by me grasped tightly, so that I felt every part of
it, both the medium's hands being at the time held by me. The
spirit of my brother’s deceased child also placed his hand in
mine ; and a large man’s hand, purporting to be that of Dr.
Franklin, was placed in mine, seizing and shaking it so
violently, that it shook my whole frame, and also the table.
My brother, also, had each of these hands placed in his.
Thus, thred distinct and different sized hands were within a
few minutes placed in each of ours, and recognised unmis¬
takably as, first, a female hand ; second, a child’s ; third, that
of a full-sized man, each with its characteristic weakness or
strength. At my request, the folding-doors of the room were
opened and shut with great force repeatedly.
“ Satw'day Evening, Nov. 30, 1861.—At home in my own
house ; carefully locked the door. Conditions favourable ;
weather clear and cold. Soon after darkening the room,
heavy knocks came upon the table with the electric rattle, but
without any light. By raps, the encouraging ‘ No failure to¬
night ’ was communicated. My cane and hat and a glass of
water were called for. A vacant chair by the table moved
and got into position without being touched by.us. A request
was made ‘ to close eyes,’ when a sound, like drawing a match,
was heard several times repeated. upon the table, with no
result. Matches were then asked for. I procured a number
of wax vestas; and holding one over the table, it was in¬
stantly taken by a spirit-hand, drawn across the table, and
ignited at the third attempt. We opened our eyes : the room
was illuminated by the burning match: and Dr. Franklin was
before us, kneeling, the top of his head about a foot above the
table. We looked at him as long as the match burned ; and
he became invisible as it expired. .. . Soon after the male
figure first appeared, the following was communicated by
raps : “ Now, dear son, can the world ever doubt ? This is
what we have so long laboured to accomplished.—B. IF.’
Also, ‘ My dear, now I am satisfied.—Estelle.’ Upon cards
there was subsequently written by the spirit, as follows :
‘ This meeting is the most important we have ever had. Long
have we tried to accomplish this manifestation, and success
has crowned our efforts. You saw that I had only to light the
match to show you that I was as naturally in form as you are.
I have long tried to come in an earthly light, and have at last
succeeded.’
“Dec. 15, 1861.—The figure of Dr. Franklin appeared per¬
fectly delineated, seated in the window, and permitted me to
examine his hair with my hand. The hair was to sight and
touch as real as human hair.
“ Saturday Evening, Dec. 28, 1861.—In my own house and
room, which was carefully examined, and door locked by my¬
self. Soon after extinguishing the gaslight, the spirit-light
rose, and requested us, by raps, to follow it across the room to
the window, which was heavily curtained, to exclude the light
from the street. By raps, the following was communicated :
II come ; 1 come in a cloud.' Immediately the light became
very vivid : the ‘ cloud ’ appeared against the curtain, a por¬
tion of it overhanging from the top ; while the face and figure
of my wife, from the waist, was projected upon it with stereo¬
scopic effect. White gossamer, intertwined with violets and
roses, encircled her head ; while she held in her hand a
natural flower, which was placed at my nose, and subsequently
found upon the bureau, having been carried by the spirit from
a basket of flowers on the table, standing in the centre of the
room. . We were told to notice her dress, which seemed tight-
fitting, of a substance like delicate white flannel. She was
leaning upon her right hand ; the cuff of her sleeve was plain
and neatly turned back. In answer to my enquiry, whether this
appearance was not like a bas-relief, I was answered ‘ No; but
you see the fine spirit-form. You notice I come in health, and
not as one year ago to-night.' This appearance is new, and
quite different from those originally seen, and is effected
without noise or demonstrations of any kind.
“ Thursday Evening, Jam. 23.—My wife made her appear¬
ance standing against the door. She was exquisitely robed
in white, and enveloped in blue gossamer. A white ribbon,
tied or knotted in the centre, passed across her waist; and a
large and perfect bow-knot of white silk ribbon was attached
to her breast diagonally. In her hand, near her face, she held
a small oval mirror, about two inches in diameter. We had
seen the mirror before, but at a distance. On this occasion I
determined to examine it closely, and approached to within
six or eight inches. The mirror was apparently glass, and
reflected objects perfectly,—not only the light itself, but I
saw my own face in it. The spirit-finger held opposite was
reflected with all its motions. We asked for certain move¬
ments of the finger, which were made as requested, and
simultaneously reflected in the mysterious glass. The flowers
in her hair and on her person were real in appearance. Over
her forehead was a crown of flowers. In the centre was a
button or flower of black and gold upon a background of
white. A card taken from me, and upon which I had written
a private question, was held by the spirit in front of her face,
and behind the oval mirror, which thus hung suspended and
swinging against the white card, rendering it as a real,
palpable object. The light shone vividly upon her face and
Nov. 15, 1870
THE SPIRITUALIST.
119
figure ; and while we stood looking intently, she instantly, as
quick as thought, disappeared, with a rushing sound. Then,
,by raps, was communicated. ‘ The electricity is very strong ;
and we did this to show you how quickly we can disappear.’
Very soon she returned, as real as before. The light was
subsequently placed upon the floor, near the door ; while we
receded to the middle of the room, remaining thus, at a dis¬
tance of some ten feet from the medium, for twenty minutes.
We were then requested to open the window to admit air, to
enable them to dissipate the electricity. Immediately upon
the fresh air being admitted, the light grew dim and disap¬
peared.
“ Jan. 24.—A stormy night, with hail and sleet, ending in
a severe gale. Conditions favourable. My wife appeared
dressed precisely as last night, except having white gossamer
around the top of her head. The ‘ bow,’ which wus in the
same place upon her breast, was the same as then; and on
this occasion was taken in our fingers for examination, being
to sight and touch as real as silk. A low, murmuring sound
was heard, something like th,e buzzing of a bee. I listened
carefully, and noticed that it came from the lips of the spirit.
This was an unsuccessful attempt to speak, or rather the pre¬
paratory process, eventually to result, doubtless, in success.
The light approached her face. We were told to look in her
mouth. Upon doing so, we discovered what seemed a piece
of dried grass projecting from her lips about three inches.
This was then placed in my hand and in my mouth. I closed
my teeth upon it, finding it a real substance. By raps, I was
told it was a spiritual substance, when it was withdrawn, and
disappeared. A large musical box was standing upon the
table, which required considerable force to start it or to stop
it by means of springs. At my request, the spirit-light rose,
resting upon the keys, and started the music, then stopped it,
changing or repeating the tunes, and finally wound it up.
“ Jan. 30, 18(12.—A manifestation of great power and ‘ solid
form.' A veiled figure robed in white stood by us ; and,
opening the drapery which enveloped the head, we distinctly
saw the eyes, forehead, and hair of Estelle, life-like, ‘ like
flesh and blood.’ The lower part of the face was covered with
the gossamer. This figure walked and floated through the
room ; kissed me, rested its arm, while fully visible, upon my
head and shoulders, repeating the same to the medium. The
arm was round, full, and flesh-like. I examined it both with
my eyes and hands.
- “ Jam. 31, 1862.—Estelle and Dr. Franklin appeared alter¬
nately. Dr. Franklin’s shirt-bosom and collar were as real
to appearance as though made of linen. We handled them,
and examined in the same manner his tunic, which was black
and felt like cloth: his face and features were perfect and
distinctly visible. This manifestation differs from that of last
night, this having been spoken of by them as ‘ the fine spiri¬
tual form,’ which seems like the projection of form, colour,
and expression, with stereoscopic effect. We now see that the
rustling is produced by movements of the envelope or robe,
and is doubtless electrical.
“Sunday Evening, Feb. 9, 1862.—My wife appeared leaning
upon the bureau, with white face hanging in front of and
around her head. This lace or open work (like embroidery)
was so real, that the figures were plainly discernible, and could
have been sketched. As she stood in front of the bureau, the
top of the mirror was plainly visible over her head, reflecting
her form and surroundings. There were flowers in her hair;
and in other respects her appearance was similar to those pre¬
viously described. The body of her dress or robe was of
spotted white gossamer, while the lace-work was in diamonds
and flowers.
“ Wednesday Evening, Feb. 12, 1862.—I found the power
strong ; and soon after entering the room messages were
rapped out upon the door across the entire width of the room,
fifteen feet distant from the medium and myself. About
fifteen minutes after extinguishing the light, my wife came to
us in exquisite beauty ; if possible, more vividly than ever,
and directly over the table. In her bosom was a white rose,
green leaves and other smaller flowers. A card which she
had written upon was visibly given to me, handed back, and
returned to me repeatedly by her, while she was in full view.
Her hand, real in form and colour, was affectionately extended
to me, and caressed me with a touch so full of tenderness and
love that I could not restrain my tears ; for to me it was
really her hand, her native gentleness was expressed through
it. The card was as follows : “ Dear C., — Beautiful spring is
approaching; flowery spring. Over you lightly fall its
shadows ; and may no sorrow, no clouds, touch the brightness
of your future. Have you not noticed, dear C., that all your
life you have been prospered, guided, and directed by the
guardians of your happiness ? You have always been fol¬
lowed by an invisible protecting power, which will ever be
near when danger threatens, to step between you and diffi¬
culty, to lead you into paths of happiness and peace. We are
now more closely linked, from our constant intercourse.
There is not a day closes without a lasting blessing from us.
As life is short, live well and live purely.. .. Fear not the
world : there will be a day when this great truth will be seen
in its true light and prized as it should be.. .. Be happy: all
is well. Good night.—Estelle.’
“ Saturday Evening, Feb. 15.—Atmosphere unfavourable
and damp. This meeting was held especially for Mr. G ,
my brother-in-law. There were present, the medium, Mr.
G , and myself. I asked for a manifestation of power;
and we at once received the following message : ‘ Listen, and
hear it come through the air ; hands off the table.' Immedi¬
ately a terrific metallic shock was produced, as though a heavy
chain in a bag swung by a strong man had been struck with
his whole power upon the table, ja/rring the whole house.
This was repeated three times, with decreasing force. A
heavy marble-topped table moved across the room; and a
large box did the same, no person touching or being near
either of them. An umbrella which had been lying upon the
table floated through the room, touching each of us upon the
head, and was finally placed in G ’s hand. These physical
manifestations were given doubtless to convince an additional
witness of the reality of spirit or invisible power. If such
was the object, the purpose was well served ; for every
possible precaution had been taken by him, even to the sealing
of the doors and windows.
“ Sunday Evening, Feb. 16, 1862.—Appearance of my wife
and of natural flowers. I had been promised a new manifes¬
tation, ‘ something natural as life.’ We sat longer than usual
in quiet, and received the infallible message, ‘ Eo 'failure.’
The spirit announced her presence by gentle taps upon my
shoulder, accompanied by rustlings, kissed me, and asked for
a card and a pin, then another pin ; all of which I handed
over my shoulder, together with a small strand of my hair,
which latter was particularly requested. The taking of each
©f these articles was accompanied by rustlings ; and, as the
spirit-hand was extended over my shoulder visibly, the drapery
fell upon my hand and arm. Some ten minutes were now
occupied by the spirit in arranging the card, pins, &c., when
the following message was received : ‘ 1 will give you a
spirit-flower.’ Immediately afterwards an apparently freshly
gathered flower was placed at my nose, and that of the
medium. My wife now appeared in white, holding the card
in one hand, and the spirit-light in the other ; while we dis¬
covered, fastened to the card, a leaf and flower. I asked if I
could have the flower, and was answered in the affirmative.
My hand was then taken by the spirit, opened, and the card
placed thereon: while I was particularly and repeatedly en¬
joined to ‘ be very careful,' and ‘ do not drop or disturb it.’
With the other hand I now lighted the gas, and found, to my
surprise and astonishment, a leaf of laurel, about two and a-
half inches in length, pinned upon the card, and a pale pink
flower pinned to the centre of the leaf, with the strand of
hair passed through and tied in the leaf. We examined it
carefully, smelled it, touched it, and found it fragrant and
fresh. The'card had not been during all this time within
reach of the medium, who sat on my right, while the spirit
stood on my left, and the doors were as usual carefully and
securely locked. After a careful examination of five or ten
minutes, we were requested to darken the room. Before
doing so, wishing to preserve the leaf and flower, I placed
them and the card upon a book in a remote part of the room,
and returning to the medium, turned out the gas. The
following message was then communicated : ‘ I gave you the
sacred privilege of seeing this flower from our spirit-home ;
it has vanished.’ I immediately relighted the gas, and di¬
rected my steps across the room, when I found the cards and
the pins precisely as I had left them ; but the leaf and flower
were gone. By raps, ‘ Next time you shall see the flowers
dissolve in the light.’ The following was also written upon
another card by the spirit of Benjamin Franklin : 1 My son,
we are achieving a great victory at this moment.—B. F.’*
“ Saturday Evening, Feb. 22, 1862.—Appearance of flowers.
Cloudy. Atmosphere damp. Conditions unfavourable. At
the expiration of half an hour, a bright light -rose to the
surface of the table, of the usual cylindrical form, covered
with gossamer. Held directly over this was a sprig of roses,
about six inches in length, containing two half-blown white
roses, and a bud with leaves. The flowers, leaves, and stem
were perfect. They were placed at my nose, and smelled as
though freshly gathered ; but the perfume in this instance was
weak and delicate. We took them in our fingers, and I care¬
fully examined the stem and flowers. The request was made as
before ‘ to be very careful.’ I noticed an adhesive, viscous
feeling, which was explained as being the result of a damp,
impure atmosphere. These flowers were held near and over
the light, which seemed to feed and give them substance in
the same manner as the hand. I have noticed that all these
spiritual creations are nourished and fed or materialised by
means of the electrical reservoir or cylinder, and that when
they begin to diminish or pass off, incrassation or increase
takes place the moment they are brought into contact with,
or in proximity to, the electrical light. By raps, we were told
to ‘ Notiee and see them dissolve.’ The sprig was placed over
the light, the flowers drooped, and in less than one minute
melted as though made of wax, their substance seeming to
spread as they disappeared. By raps, - See them come agann.’
A faint line immediately shot across the cylinder, grew into a
stem ; and, in about the same time required for its dissolu¬
tion, the stem, bud, and roses, had grown into created perfec¬
tion. This was several times repeated, and was truly won¬
derful. We were promised the phenomenon of their probable
disappearance in the gaslight when the atmosphere became
pure and clear.
“Sunday Evening, Feb. 23, 1862.—Flowers. Atmosphere
very damp. Conditions unfavourable. The flowers were
reproduced in the same manner as last evening. I felt them
carefully ; and a rose was placed in my mouth, so that I took
its leaves between my lips. They were delicate as natural
rose-leaves, and cold; and there was a peculiar freshness
about them, but very little fragrance. The following message
was written upon a card : ‘My dear C , — Again we have
to contend with the atmosphere; but how much we have been
able to do, owing to the many powerful aids who have been so
kind to us 1 Do you realise the great blessings we are giving
you 1 Do you realise what a great proof you have received in
being permitted to see the flowers which decorate our sacred
walks ?.. . The time is coming, has come, when this subject
will be honoured. Good night.—Estelle.’
“ Tuesday Evening, Feb. 25, 1862.—Appearance in presence
of a third witness, Mr. G , the medium, and myself. The
room in which we sat was connected with another smaller
room by sliding-doors; but the doors and windows leading into
these two were carefully sealed. After sitting" about half an
hour, we were directed to open these sliding-doors ; while the
medium and myself proceeded to a window against which
was hung a dark curtain to exclude the light as usual. Mean¬
while Mr. G remained by the table. Upon reaching the
window, a viVid light rose from the floor, discovering to us
the form of a male spirit standing against the white wall
adjoining the window. At first his face was not visible, or
rather was concealed by the unusual quantity of dark drapery
by which he was enveloped; but after two or three efforts the
face of Dr. Franklin was recognised. During this time Mr.
G was not permitted to leave the table. At last the con¬
ditions having become stronger, or rather the effect of his
presence having been partially overcome, the following
message was received : ‘ Fear friend, approach.’ Mr. G 
now came to us, when the spirit of Dr. Franklin immediately
became visible to him. He saw the hair was real; for while
we stood before him it was frequently placed over and on the
light to show its substantiality. He did not, however, see the
spirit in the same degree of perfection that we do, but suffi¬
ciently well to recognise the face of Dr. Franklin as repre¬
sented in his portraits. The eyes, hair, features, and expres¬
sion, together with a portion of the drapery, were all visibly
perfect; but the power of the electrical light was consider¬
ably weakened from the effects of Mr. Gray’s presence.
These effects were very curious. With Mr. G-; in the other
room, the light was bright and vivid, decreasing as he ap¬
proached in proportion to the distance ; again brightening as
he receded, and vice versd, showing that the sphere of a person
in the earth-form has a direct influence upon these creations
of the invisible world ; and that this influence may be a dis¬
turbing one, from no other cause except surprise, fear, or
any violent emotion resulting from inexperience in the
phenomena.”
In a letter to Mr. Coleman, dated June 10th, 1862, Mr.
Livermore writes: “ I have the pleasure of announcing to you
the initiation of Dr. Gray as a witness of the visible presence
of Dr. Franklin on Friday night last. He saw the spirit less
distinctly than has generally been my experience, but suffi-
* Fort Donelson, on the Tennessee Biver, was taken on this day by tho
Federal forces, February 16th.
ciently well to recognise him. This being, however, the first
time of seeing him, he may expect to attain by progressive
steps the same vividness that has been manifested to us, after
the first emotions of surprise have been overcome by familiarity
with the phenomenon. The Doctor actually saw and took the
grey hair of Franklin’s spirit, as well as a portion of the
clothing, in his hand, and examined then. To me this is now a
very common occurrence; but the additional corroborative
testimony of Dr. Gray is very important.”
Dr. Gray, on his part, fully confirms all this. He writes
January, 1867: “ I can only reply to your latest request, that'
I would write out my testimony in this case for publication*,
that Mr. Livermore’s statements are each, one and all of them,
fully reliable. His recitals of the stances in which I partici¬
pated are faithfully and most accurately stated, leaving not a
shade of doubt in my mind as to the truth and accuracy of
his accounts of those at which I was not a witness. I saw
with him the philosopher Franklin, in a living, tangible,
physical form, several times, and on as many different occa¬
sions. I also witnessed the production of lights, odours, and
sounds ; and also the formation of flowers, cloth-textures, &c.,
and their disintegration and dispersion.
“ These phenomena, including the apparition of Dr. Franklin,
and also many other phenomena of like significance, have all
been shown to me when Mr. Livermore was not present, and
in the country even.
“ Mr. Livermore is a good observer of spirit phenomena;
brave, .clear and quick sighted, void of what is called super¬
stition, in good health of body and mind, and remarkably un¬
susceptible to human magnetism. Moreover, he knows that
all forms of spirit communication are subject to interpolation
from earth-minds, and are of no other or greater weight than
the truths they contain confer upon them.
“ Miss Fox, the medium, deported herself with patient in¬
tegrity of conduct, evidently doing all in her power, at all
times, to promote a fair trial and j ust decision of each pheno¬
menon as it occurred.—John F. Gray.”
“ THE SPIRITUAL NEWS.”
In a fortnight’s time, on Thursday, December 1st, the first
number of the Spiritual News, price one penny, will be pub¬
lished in connection with The Spiritualist. The new monthly
paper will be devoted almost entirely to reports of meetings
and seances, and will contain very little in the way of articles,
so is not likely to interfere with the Spiritual Magazine and
other journals not of the newspaper class published on the
same day of the month. The Spiritual News will be a small
paper, handsomely printed-, with plenty of reading for its size
and price, because very little space will be given to advertise¬
ments and standing matter.
The Spiritualist has been rising in circulation steadily from
the first, and is now known throughout the length and breadth
of the movement in England and the colonies. But the com¬
mercial loss over it is still heavy, because most of the adver¬
tising public know little about Spiritualism, and consider it
either delusion or imposture, so that Spiritual journals are on
a much worse footing in the advertising department than
others, all other conditions being equal. This is a great mis¬
take on the part of the advertising public, for the Spiritual
journals circulate well among those whom they desire to
reach.
But if the commercial aspects of the undertaking are not
bright, the paper has been useful, and has done much good in
many ways to the cause of Spiritualism. Abundant proofs of
this could be given, but a statement of the facts might be mis¬
taken for self praise.
We have to thank the subscribers to this journal for the
support they have given, and shall be glad of their aid in
raising the circulation of the new paper by their taking more
copies of it than are required for home use, if they think fit so
to do. It takes some little time for the place of publication of
a new journal to become known to all the London newsagents,
therefore those who order the Spiritual News through a book¬
seller, are requested to tell that bookseller to take down also
the name of the publisher, “Mr. E. W. Allen,” that his agent in
the City may know where to get the new paper. This plan
will save disappointment and delay* in getting early copies. »
The publisher is Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
The Spiritualist and Spiritual News are also usually on sale
at the establishments of Mr. Burns, 15, Southampton-row,
Holbom, W.C.; and Messrs. Hey wood and Co., 335, Strand,
W.C. (nearly opposite Somerset House).
The Meetings at the Cavendish Rooms.—The in¬
spirational addresses delivered every Sunday evening through
Mr. J. J. Morse, trance-medium, at the Cavendish Rooms, have
steadily increased the attendance there, till last Sunday the
hall was full to the doors. Last Sunday night it was an¬
nounced, to the astonishment of everybody, that his course of
lectures there had come to an end, so the meetings will decline
once more. General disapprobation was caused by this de¬
cision of the managers.
Mr. Home at the Seat of War.—For three or four
weeks past Mr. D. D. Home has been with the Prussians in
France, in company with Lord Adare, who is one of the War
Correspondents of the Eaily Telegraph. In one of his letters, pub¬
lished in the Eaily Telegraph of October 31st last, Lord Adare
says :— “ A staff officer put his head in at the door, and ex¬
claimed, ‘ The King 1 the King !’ —disappearing as he uttered
the words. We hurried after him, and sure enough there, in
the dining-room, stood the venerable Monarch, who had impro¬
vised a visit to the Chateau during his afternoon drive, sur¬
rounded by the members of his personal staff. I never saw
the King in better health or spirits ; he displayed the greatest
interest in the curious spectacle submitted to his inspection by
the disorganised interieur, and strode through the suites of
rooms with as firm a tread and dtbonair a bearing as if the
tale of his years had only reached twenty instead of seventy-
three. Among our party was an American General, with
whom his Majesty conversed for some time. Another was
Mr. Daniel Home, the celebrated Spiritualist, whom the King
promptly recognised, and addressed very kindly—reminding
him of the wonders that he (Mr. Home) had been the 'means
of imparting to him,and inquiring about ‘the spirits’ in by no
means a sceptical tone.” We may add that the King said to
Mr. Home that “he had told many of his friends of the wonder¬
ful manifestations he had seen in Mr. Home’s presence : his
friends did not believe him ; but the facts were true for all
that.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J. J., W. C., T. B.—Your communications are unavoidably kept over
for want of space.
B. S. Nayler (Melbourne). —We have sent your lecture on for
review, to a newspaper with which you were once connected, and
will shortly try and find room for a notice here.
120
THE SPIRITUALIST
Nov. 15, 1870
' PACTS FOB, SON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
■within the ordinary range of human experi-
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the .testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
■believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is-impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES-
. TIGATION.
. The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nessed tjhat the phenomena of Spiritualism are
ac/tuai facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late'vears so accumulated as to possess very great
•weight: In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr, Bobert
Chambers, Mr. 0. P. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
stronglyin favour of-Mr. Home. The following
was a portion of the affidavit of Mr. 0. F. Varley,
•.C.E., F/R.G.S., M.R.I.
; V«I, lursie been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele-
grsyphic ..engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
' StmTI fi.ni.the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele-
' gtaphr Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“Abbut eight years ago, I called on Mr. Home,
the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
•hot 'yet '^witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
-that ,1 ;was a scientific man' and wished to investigate
thenicarefully.
■ “ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and d’esired me to satisfy myself In every possible
iwaV,: and. I have been with him on divers occasions
: when, tlpo phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, .since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it "is.'cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec-
tripity Und magnetism, and after having applied me-
•chanfcal and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that tbAmanifestations which I have, myself examined'
•weremotjdue to the operation of any of the recognised
' physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
v>n the- occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.”
; It gilso came out in the evidence given at, the
’trial,"that Mr. Home had been the invited and nn-
paid^uest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em-
prp$s Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King*of
JBavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen, of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay. for his'
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—
“Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham Alfred R. "Wallace, Esq., 9, St. Mark’s-erescent,
N.W:Brofessor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
.Captain Erayson, R.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
Tin)’ Priory* Great Malvern: .Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. Jbhn’s-wood-villas, iST.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-stfeet, W.O.: S. 0. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-plaoe,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
•Hb.witt, %q., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
,Robert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford;.,"Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
WilkinsortvEsq.,. Oakfleld, Kilburn; Lord. Adare, 5,
Buckiugham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square. •, >
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book,.says;—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot he taken by
a rational being to he capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
•spoke very highly of the scientific-attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowee! ’Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained .all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of fins own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were • intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New Tork, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also 1
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscojint Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth-of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This hook is
.printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what •
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
•spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
. Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Chemical
News, is now investigating Spiritualism, and he
has published an article in the Quarterly Journal of
Science, ■ stating that its phenomena are real, and
not delusion or imposture, though he does'not know
as yet wheiftey they are produced by disembodied
spirits. TRe fpuowing letter, which he wrote to
Mr. Varley, was published in the Spiritualist of
July 15th, 1870:—
“20, Momington-road, London, N.W.
“ July 13th, 1870.
“Dear Mr. Varley,—I was very pleased to receive
your letter of the 9th inst., in which you discuss some
points alluded to in my paper on “Spiritualism viewed
by the Right of Modem Science.”
“You have been working at the subject for more
years;than I have months, and knowing, as you do, the
enormous difficulties in the way of accurate investigation
—di^leulties for the most part interposed,by Spiritualists
themselves—you will not he surprised to find that I only
feel the ground firm under me for a very short distance
along the road which you have travelled so far.
“ I was deeply interested in reading of your experi¬
ments, the more so, as I have been working in a similar
direction myself, but as yet with scarcely a tangible
result.
“ You notice that I admit freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that I
shall not hesitate for a moment in recording with equal
fearlessness for the consequences, whatever convictions
my investigation leads me to—whether it points to a
mere physical force, or makes me, as you predict, a con¬
vert to the spiritual hypothesis—hut I must let my con¬
victions come in my own way, and if I hold somewhat
stubbornly to the laws of conservation of force and in-
penetrability of matter, it should not be considered as
a crime on my part, but rather as a peculiarity in my
scientific education.'
“I have already had many letters, both from Spiri¬
tualists and from leading men of science, saying that
they are glad I have taken up the subject, and urging
me to continue the investigation. In fact, I have been
agreeably surprised to find encouragement from So many
scientific1 men, as well as sympathy from the good
friend^ I possess amongst the Spiritualists.—Believe
me, my dear sir, very truly yours.
. William Crookes.”
A work Antitied The Booh of Nature, by 0. O.
Groom Napier, F.O.S. (London, John Oamden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which' that eminent statesman
says:—
“There is hut one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No.; for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author. addresses himself: But even in the most,
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it he no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written, a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same hank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish <my fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
. .“Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak apd hold rational converse with
men.
“A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to he chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers, of the .learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
-witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict he that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to he mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to he met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the -second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the tweniy-
fonr gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case; the stances are to he conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may he available for the purpose. .
“ The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to he advertised by the viotorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I . hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient,
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities.. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New Amei'ica estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than,
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
When reports of the speeches of spirits cere printed in this
Journal, non-Sniritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by cone-
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the, next world than in this tme. It is the business of this
journal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
_An experimental trial at home, among family
fri,ends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory. evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among thpse who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new pircle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, hut no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room he of a comfortable temperature, hut
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter-it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is had for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number'd', each sex. .Sit round an un¬
covered wooden. table, with all the, palms of the hands
in; contact with its top surface. ■ Whether the hands
toueh each other or not is usually of tie importance,
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters: The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, hut when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes,.,but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be |
obtained.
4. People who do not like each, other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, . except with wfill-developed !
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature.' A prayerful,,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a' higher and more pleasing class of spirits. -
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a.feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid' confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as .to anr intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
' “Yes,” one-means “No,” and two mean .“.Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals-be given in-answer, then say, “If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals he given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should he put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium?” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should. be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits, out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of medinmsbip than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of medinmsliip will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s hook, From Matter
to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is.a
good book -to read before trying to start a new
.circle.. ,
THE PROGRESSIVE LIBRARY and
SPIRITUALIST DEPOSITORY has been re¬
moved from Camberwell to No. 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbufy-square, Holborn, W.C.
There is a Publishing Office and Shop for the sale of
Books; a Oirculating Library of all Works on Spiritualism.
&c.; a. Reading-Room supplied with the Spiritual and
Progressive. Publications of the World;' a Drawing-
Room for the special use of Ladies and Subscribers;
Private Rooms for Stances, Oommittees, Meetings, &c.,
and where all information respecting the Cause and the
Progress of events may be obtained.
The Subseription, entitling to all the privileges of the
Establishment, including the use of two Books at a
time from the Library for home perusal, is 21s. per annum
A well-assorted Stock of Stationery, Periodicals, cur¬
rent Progressive Literature, Standard Works, Cheap
Books and Tracts, Planchettes, Materials for Writing
and Drawing Mediums; also Works and Appliances on
Phrenology, Physiology, Health, and Dietetic Reform,
Temperance, Hydropathy, Gymnastics, Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Anthropology,. &c., will be kept on sale.
As the responsibilities incurred in establishing this
“Home for-Spiritualism” and the Science of Man are
very heavy, the Proprietor earnestly solicits the kind
co-operation and support of all who sympathise with
the enterprise. Strangers in -London should at once-
call'at the Progressive Library, where they may hear of
Lodgings and get other useful information.
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-rcw,
Bloomsbury-square, Holhom, London, W.C
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, pub¬
lished Monthly, contains all the news of Spiri¬
tualism, and psychological articles by writers of ability.
Publisher, James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbora,
W.C,
Heaven opened; or messages
for the BEREAVED from the LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Through the mediumship of F.J. T.
With observations by Mrs. De Morgan. In neat .cloth,
Is. In enamel wrapper, 6d. . London, J. Burns, 15,
Southampton-row, Bloomsbury, .W.C.
The only Cheap Weekly Horticultural Journal.
2d. Weekly; and in Monthly Parts, lOd.
THE GARDENER’S MAGAZINE for
Amateur Cultivators, Colleotors, and Exhibitors
of Plants; Flowers and Fruits ; for Gentlemen’s Gar¬
deners, Florists, Nurserymen,'and Seedsmen; for Na¬
turalists, Botanists, Bee-keepers, and Lovers of the
Country. Conducted by Shirley Hibberd, Esq.,
F.R.H.S.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
And by Order of all Booksellers and Newsagents in
Town and Country.
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OF spiri¬
tualists holds its meetings at 10, Branksome-
terrace, Acre-lane, Brixton. All communications should
he addressed to the Secretary,
SPIRITUAL SEANCES are held every
Friday evening, at 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W.C., at eight o’clock. Mr. J. J. Morse,- Medium. Ad¬
mission One Shilling.
A ARON FRANKLIN, PRESERVER OF
BIRDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF
NATURE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign hirds’-skins, stags’ hea'ds, fox’s heads,
shells, and corals in. great variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847.
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
EBIRD, GAS FITTER, PLUMBER,
. PAINTER, PAPER HANGER, PEWTERER,
and HOUSE DECORATOR. Contractor for every des¬
cription of House Repairs. No. 10, Branksome-terrace,
Acre-lane, Brixton, and at High Holbom.
mwo ROOMS to be LET Unfurnished.
JL A Spiritualist preferred as a tenant. Apply on
the premises, E. Bird, 10, Branksome-terrace, Acre-
lane, Brixton. Also a Stable and Chaise House to he let. \
HUMAN NATURE, a Monthly Record
of Zoistio Science, Intelligence, and Popular
Anthropology. ' Recent numbers give full details of the
extraordinary Manifestations through the celebrated
Medium, D. D. Home, Esfi-, with philosophical reason¬
ings as to the nature and cause of the'.phenomena :• a
’ new series of lessons on Phrenology-and the Temperas
ments is being given, containing some new instructions
of great value to the student; first-class Portraits of
eminent men and women, with Biographies and Phreno¬
logical delineations are frequently introduced; a serial
Tale of great power and beauty; articles on Physiology,
Diet, Temperance, and Health; translations from Con¬
tinental Works and Periodicals; treatises on Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Spiritualism; reviews of Books; reports
of Lectures, Meetings, and Societies, renders this the
cheapest, most varied, and instructive Periodical of the
kind in- the world. The fact that this Periodical is .en¬
tirely unbiased and devoted to the truth respecting all
the topics on which it'treats, is a point not to be over¬
looked by all earnest investigators, .whatever their
opinions may be. Post free, 7s. per annum, or 6d. per
month_ from the Booksellers. James Burns, Progres¬
sive Library, 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury-square',
Holhorn, London, W:C.
A COMPLETE Set of SPIRITUAL
-Cm- MAGAZINES for SALE, besides- several Odd
Volumes,
HEYWOOD AND CO., 335, STRAND, W.C.
Where, also may he obtained Spiritual Magazine, Human
Nature, Daybreak, and. the Spiritualist, on day of
Publication, Wholesale and Retail.
On the first of every month.
THE, TRUTHSEEKER, a Review,
devoted to the advocacy of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining to Religion.” Edited by
the Rev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and Co., GO, Paternoster-row. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Rawson, and John Hey wood; and
through all booksellers and agents.
JEIEMALE
MEDICAL
Vice-Patrons:
SOCIETY.
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess Of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.,
President:
The Right Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer:
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171'Aldersgate-street, E.C.
Honorary Secretary:. .
James Edmunds, Esq,,' M.D.
Lady Secretary:
’ Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers:
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society, is. established for the
following objects:—
|—To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2.—To-provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
Midwifery and’ the accessory branches Of medicine
offer a wide field of honourable and lucrative ^employ¬
ment for educated women; also a means of intellectual
culture and social usefulness to 1 allies who may not he
dependent upon their own exertions. For want of
properly qualified ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has drifted into the hands of gentlemen,
though female practitioners still attend the hulk of the
population. Bat any person may undertake the duties
of a midwife. Proper means of study have never been
provided for women, and there has never been any
public examination, by which women when well qualified
might be distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified.
The Society has carried on for five years the Ladies’
Medical College, which has taught the theory and prac¬
tice of Midwifery and the accessory branches of medi¬
cine. Eighty-two ladies have alreadyavailed themselves
of its advantages, and many of these ladies are settled
in practice, and.succeeding admirably. ,
A life subscription of ten guineas, or an annual sub¬
scription of one guinea, constitutes a member of the
Society, but stamps'or other small contributions will be
gladly received,. -
Lady subscribers of hot less than one guinea are
invited to visit any Lectures in which they are likely to
be interested.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may he obtained, of the Lady Secretary.
. Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W. .
Cheques to be crossed London and County Bank.
J^TO. 1 of The Spiritualist is from be-
Xl ginning to end a compact mass of good evidence
that the facts of Spiritualism are true. It contains a
summary of the evidence given before ’the Dialectical
Society by twenty witnesses of eminence and ability; it
also gives the testimony of respectable non-Spiritualists;
therefore it is a valuable publication to: place in the
hands of non-Spiritualists, and should he selected for
that purpose rather than later numbers of the'same
journal, as the later numbers •jyill run out of .print first,
and should he ordered while they are still obtainable by
those who wish to preserve them for binding. A few
copies of No. 1 should be kept on hand for the benefit of
non-Spiritualists, but later numbers should he retained in
the possession of the early friends of the movement,
before they become scarce and unobtainable. Covers
with stringed backs, to keep copies clean till required
for binding, 2s. 6d. each.
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; or J.
Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
Contents.
Mr. John Bright, M.P., on Spiritualism   ...113
Mrs. H. B. Stowe on Spiritualism 113
Spiritual Phenomena on Board an Atlantic Tele¬
graph Ship   ... ...  113
An Answer to the Arguments of Hume, Lecky, arid
others, against Miracles   113
St. John's Association of Spiritualists 116
Leader:—Miracles ...    ... 117
Lothajr    ...  117
Correspondence •—A Stance at Mrs. Guppy’s 118
Remarkable Spiritual Manifestations. Part III. ... 118
The Spiritual News     119
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in Norwood, 116: The
Hariey-street Meetings, 116; Marriage of Mrs.
Hardinge, 117: Spiritualism in Olerkenwell. 117;
Dr. Newton’s Portraits, 117; New Spiritual Socie¬
ties, 118; Mr. Home at' the Seat of War, 119
Meetings at the Cavendish Rooms, 119.
Answers to Correspondents   il
Printed for the Proprietor by James Beveridge, at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High
Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and
■ St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E,
W. Allen, Ave Maria-lano, London, E.C.
